---

title: Progressive decision for cellular process selection
abstract: A computerized image guided biological cellular process progressive selection method receives at least one state cell image. A state cell region recognition is performed using the state cell image to generate state cell region output. A state cell measurement is performed using the state cell region to generate at least one state cell feature output. A state cell decision is performed using the state cell feature to generate state cell selection decision output. The selected cell is progressively selected in at least one follow-on states by its image guided state cell selection method. The method further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame of same state and state cell feature includes temporal features of growth patterns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123120&OS=09123120&RS=09123120
owner: DR Vision Technologies LLC
number: 09123120
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This work was supported by U.S. Government grant numbers 4R44HL106863 02 awarded by the National Heart Lung and Blood Institutes. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to the cell selection for biological cellular processes such as stem cell production and differentiation cell culture production and cell transformation assays.

The advancement in biological cellular process technologies allows the reprogramming of matured cells such as somatic cells to an embryonic like state. These induced pluripotent stem cells iPSCs enable a new patient specific or personalized medicine paradigm in 1 autologous regenerative medicine 2 disease cell lines from patient cells for more predictive assays in drug discovery and basic research and 3 patient specific cell generation for personalized diagnostic and drug efficacy or adverse effects testing. To achieve the promise of iPSC technology requires the controlled differentiation of iPSCs to specific lineages.

However the yields of reprogramming and differentiation are both very low. For any given matured cells under reprogramming it is not at all certain that any significant number of iPSCs will be produced. Similarly for any given iPSC colony under differentiation it is not at all certain that any significant number of target cells will be produced.

To mitigate the low yield and the lack of certainty state of art protocols require a large number of samples to carry out the full reprogramming process and selection of more iPSC colonies for expansion and characterization than is desirable. For the differentiation process iPSC lines are selected in an ad hoc fashion and a large number of stem cells are used for differentiation in the hope of generating a sufficient quantity of target cells. This approach is time consuming and expensive as reflected by the prices of iPSC derived cells costing more than 10 the price of adult human primary fibroblasts.

For the reprogramming process iPSC colony selection is largely done manually with additional staining such as TRA 1 60 surface marker or using viral GFP silencing when available. However additional staining is not desirable in practical clinical laboratory settings. Therefore it is desirable to make the selection using non invasive imaging modalities such as phase contrast images. There are computer image recognition methods that are developed to determine between iPSCs and Non iPSCs. The prior art methods are based on fixed images acquired near the end of reprogramming. Therefore many colonies have to go through the full course of reprogramming which is costly and inefficient. To date there are no effective image recognition methods that can predict the outcomes of the differentiation process.

Reprogramming for induced pluripotent stem cells iPSCs is a slow process. It takes around 4 weeks for reprogrammed cells to reach a pluripotent state. In the process many colonies are formed but only a small number of them are true iPSC colonies. The current practice selects true iPSC colonies near the end of the reprogramming process harvesting time . The selection could be done using morphological criteria from the microscopy images of the colonies either by human eye or by computer image analysis. Another selection method uses the images of additional staining such as TRA 1 60 surface marker or viral GFP silencing to assist the determination of iPSC colonies from non iPSC ones. In addition the iPSC PCR Array is used to analyze multiple biologically validated pluripotency biomarkers to distinguish fully reprogrammed iPSC colonies from partially reprogrammed ones. There are many issues with the current practices as listed below 

We discovered an early kinetic pattern of colony formation for cells undergoing reprogramming within the first 72 hours after a colony is first discernible. The kinetic pattern can reliably predict which cells will most likely progress to become induced pluripotent stem iPS cell colonies See Hendrik et al Assessment of an imaging protocol for real time selection of human iPSC colonies using live cell microscopy and image recognition software poster presentation at the ISSCR 10Annual Meeting June 2012 . Similar early kinetic patterns can also accurately predict which colonies will most likely differentiate with good cardiomyocyte yield Alworth et al. Real time scoring of human iPSC differentiation potential using live cell microscopy and image recognition software poster presentation at the ISSCR 10Annual Meeting June 2012 . Studies in the field have focused on late colony morphology at around three weeks or the use of surface markers for iPS selection. The quantification of colony formation dynamics could generate powerful kinetic image features that can be used reliably for real time colony outcome prediction in a much earlier stage of reprogramming. The outcomes include not only iPSCs formation but also prediction of differentiation yield.

This invention provides a method that selects colonies starting from early states rather than waiting until the colonies are fully reprogrammed. This uniquely allows the progressive selection of colonies. That is a colony selected during the pre colony state decision can be subjected to the selection decision in the colony emerging state and the selection process could continue progressively to the next state. The progressive selection method of the current invention can address all the above issues in the current practice.

The progressive selection method of the current invention is applicable not only to iPSC reprogramming processes but also to biological cellular processes such as stem cell both iPSC and embryonic stem cell production stem cell differentiation cell culture production and cell transformation assays etc.

The primary objective of the invention is to provide a highly accurate and efficient colony selection method for iPSC reprogramming. The second objective of this invention is to provide a highly accurate and efficient cell selection method for stem cell differentiation. The third objective of this invention is to provide a highly accurate and efficient cell selection method for biological cellular processes. The fourth objective of this invention is to provide a progressive selection method to reduce the selection cost. The fifth objective of this invention is to provide a progressive selection method to avoid wasteful processing.

A computerized image guided biological cellular process progressive selection method receives at least one state cell image. A state cell region recognition is performed using the state cell image to generate state cell region output. A state cell measurement is performed using the state cell region to generate at least one state cell feature output. A state cell decision is performed using the state cell feature to generate state cell selection decision output. The selected cell is progressively selected in at least one follow on states by its image guided state cell selection method. The method further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame of same state and state cell feature includes temporal features of growth patterns.

A reprogramming process consists of morphological states that can be identified visually or by computer image recognition as shown in . In the course of the reprogramming some input cells reach the pre colony state . Continuing on some pre colony cells progress into the colony emerging state where emerging colonies are formed. Some of the emerging colonies will grow over time in the colony growing state to form growing colonies until the colonies reach the colony harvesting state having matured colonies .

Our invention selects colonies starting from early states rather than wait until the reprogramming process nears its end. This uniquely allows the progressive selection of colonies. That is a colony selected during the pre colony state decision can be subjected to the selection decision in the colony emerging state and the selection process can continue progressively to the next state.

After the selected emerging colonies have progressed to the colony growing state the growing colony image is subjected to image guided growing colony selection . The growing colonies with an image guided growing colony decision outcome corresponding to Yes in the Go decision will continue the reprogramming and selection process. The growing colonies with an image guided growing colony decision outcome corresponding to NO on the Go decision will not be selected and the reprogramming process could continue or could be abandoned if it is practically convenient to do so. Similarly after the selected growing colonies have progressed to the colony harvesting state the matured colony image are subjected to image guided matured colony selection . The matured colonies with a matured colony selection decision outcome corresponding to Yes in the Go decision will be harvested as the harvested colony . That could be picked and expanded to create iPSC lines. The matured colonies with a matured colony selection decision outcome corresponding to NO in the Go decision will not be harvested.

The early cellular patterns in the pre colony state can be used to perform pre colony selection decision through an image guided pre colony selection method . shows the processing flow for the pre colony state decision of the current invention. The input cell is reprogrammed to the pre colony state . A pre colony cell image is acquired and processed by the image guided pre colony selection step to generate a pre colony selection decision . The pre colony selection decision is used to make a Go decision . If the decision is Yes the pre colony cell is continued with the reprogramming process to reach the colony emerging state . If the decision is No no further selection decision will be made to the pre colony cell and depending on the assay protocol the reprogramming may stop on the rejected pre colony cells to reduce wasteful processing cost.

As shown in a computerized image guided pre colony selection method inputs at least one pre colony cell image . It performs pre colony region recognition using the pre colony cell image to generate pre colony region context output. It then performs pre colony region context measurement using the pre colony region context to generate at least one pre colony region context feature output. At least one pre colony region context feature is used to perform pre colony decision that generates pre colony selection decision output.

As shown in pre colony region recognition method performs seed cell detection to detect at least one seed cell that would advance to form a colony. In one embodiment of the invention the seed cell is detected using the learnable object segmentation method Lee et al learnable object segmentation U.S. Pat. No. 7 203 360 and refined by the structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement method Lee Structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 175 guided by the method of directed pattern enhancement Lee et al Method of directed pattern enhancement for flexible recognition U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 974 464 and 8 014 590 . After the seed cell is detected the region adjacent to the seed cell is detected by an adjacent region detection step. In one embodiment of invention adjacent region could be detected by simple dilation of the seed cell by a desired adjacent region size parameter. In another embodiment of the invention surrounding cells of the seed cell are detected and the regions occupied by the surrounding cells are detected as the adjacent region . In yet another embodiment of the invention the surrounding cells occupied regions are dilated to form the adjacent region . The pre colony region context contains the seed cell and the adjacent region . In another embodiment of the invention a background region detection is performed to detect cellular background region and include the background region in the pre colony region context .

To improve the seed cell detection accuracy in another embodiment of the invention the pre colony cell image includes at least one additional future frame image that is acquired after colony is emerged. Therefore the seed cell detection can be guided by the already formed emerging colony in a backward detection fashion. An image alignment may be performed between the pre colony cell image and emerging colony image . After alignment the seed cell detection is performed within a region in pre colony cell image that is in close proximity to the location of the corresponding colony in the emerging colony image .

Pre colony region context is used to measure at least one pre colony region context feature from a set of pre cursory features. The feature set includes seed cell features adjacent region context features and background context features.

In one embodiment of the invention seed cell features include seed cell type its morphological measures such as shape compactness elongateness major minor length ratio Fourier descriptors etc. and size area perimeter major and minor axis lengths etc. intensity measures mean median standard deviation max min percentiles etc. and texture measures co occurrence matrix derived features run length derived features wavelet derived features fractal derived features etc. . If the seed cell region contains multi nuclei the multi nuclear structures can be measured. The multi nuclear structure measures include the density symmetry mean and standard deviation of the distances between nuclear centers amount of overlap among multi nuclei etc.

If there are more than one imaging modalities such as phase contrast DIC fluorescence luminescence or color channels. Multi spectrum or color features can also be included for intensity and texture measures.

In one embodiment of the invention the adjacent region context features include intensity texture and multi spectrum measures for the adjacent region as a whole. If there are surrounding cells in the adjacent region the population statistics mean median standard deviation etc. of the size shape intensity and texture measures for the surrounding cells as a group can be measured. The ratio or difference between the measures of the seed cell and the adjacent region population statistics can be calculated as context features.

Also inter cellar crowdness measures such as the mean and standard deviation of the distances between cell centers can be included.

In the embodiment of the invention where background region is detected. The background context features include intensity texture and multi spectrum measures for the background region as a whole. The ratio or difference between the measures of the adjacent region and background region can be calculated as context features.

In the embodiment where the pre colony cell image includes future frame image that is acquired after colony is emerged the changes in seed cell features adjacent region context features and background context features can be measured as the temporal features. If time lapse image is available the temporal measures include the starting time of pre colony state since the starting of the reprogramming and seed cell lineage measures such as cell division rate average time of cell division linage symmetry etc. The temporal measures could include temporal velocity if at least 3 frames are available and acceleration if at least 4 frames are available of the changes.

In addition if 3D image is available the measures can be directly extended to 3D. For example all length measures are in 3D and area becomes volume.

The pre colony decision step uses at least one pre colony region context feature to make a pre colony selection decision . In one embodiment of the invention the selection decision is reprogramming outcomes such as iPSC vs. Non iPSC . iPSC decision is for predicting pre colony cell that is likely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. Non iPSC decision is for predicting pre colony cell that is unlikely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. In another embodiment of the invention the selection decision is differentiation outcomes such as Differentiable vs. Non Differentiable . Differentiable decision is for predicting pre colony cell that is likely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . Non Differentiable decision is for predicting pre colony cell that is unlikely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . The differentiation can be performed either by direct programming that bypass the follow on reprogramming process or by first reprogrammed into iPSC or partial iPSC and then expanded and differentiated into the desired cell types. The desired cell types include without limitation neurons cardiomyocytes blood cells hepatocytes pancreatic cells muscle cells lung cells etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the pre colony decision is performed by the hierarchic decision method such as regulation tree Lee Regulation of hierarchic decisions in intelligent systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 948 Apr. 18 2006 and Lee Information integration method for decision regulation in hierarchic decision systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 293 000 Nov. 6 2007 . Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that other pattern classification methods such as linear classifiers support vector machines quadratic classifiers kernel estimation methods boosting artificial neural networks gene expression programming Bayesian networks etc. are all within the scope of the current invention.

In another embodiment of the invention the decision method does not output a crisp decision that is binary Yes No decision. Instead a score is output from the decision method. The score can then be thresholded for a binary decision. In this case the threshold level can be used to control the sensitivity and specificity or positive predictive value of the decision output. In this embodiment a threshold can be set to have very high positive predictive value even if the sensitivity is low. This allows the selection of just a few very high confident pre colony cells for continued processing.

The pre colony cell that is selected for continued processing by the pre colony selection decision will likely progress to the colony emerging state . It can be further selected progressively by the emerging colony state decision method described in the next section.

The colony emerging patterns in the colony emerging state can be used to perform emerging colony selection decision through an image guided emerging colony selection method. shows the processing flow for the emerging colony state decision of the current invention. The input cell is reprogrammed to the colony emerging state . An emerging colony cell image is acquired and processed by the image guided emerging colony selection step to generate an emerging colony selection decision . The emerging colony selection decision is used to make a Go decision . If the decision is Yes the emerging colony is continued reprogrammed to reach the colony growing state . If the decision is No no further selection decision will be made to the emerging colony and depending on the assay protocol the reprogramming may stop on the rejected emerging colony to reduce wasteful processing cost.

As shown in a computerized image guided emerging colony selection method inputs at least one emerging colony cell image. It performs emerging colony region recognition using the emerging colony image to generate emerging colony region output. It then performs emerging colony measurement using the emerging colony region to generate at least one emerging colony feature output. At least one emerging colony feature is used to perform emerging colony decision that generates emerging colony selection decision output.

Emerging colony region recognition method performs emerging colony detection to detect the region of the emerging colony. In one embodiment of the invention the emerging colony is detected using the learnable object segmentation method Lee et al learnable object segmentation U.S. Pat. No. 7 203 360 and refined by the structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement method Lee Structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 175 guided by the method of directed pattern enhancement Lee et al Method of directed pattern enhancement for flexible recognition U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 974 464 and 8 014 590 .

To improve the emerging colony detection accuracy in another embodiment of the invention the emerging colony image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame in colony emerging state . Therefore the emerging colony detection of the early frame image can be guided by the better formed emerging colony in the later frame. An image alignment may be performed between the early and later frame images. After the alignment the emerging colony detection is performed within a region in early frame image that is in close proximity to the location of the corresponding colony in the later frame image. This also serves as a cross check for the emerging colony detection in the later frame.

Emerging colony region is used to measure at least one emerging colony feature from a set of emerging colony features. In one embodiment of the invention the feature set includes morphological measures such as shape compactness elongateness major minor length ratio Fourier descriptors etc. and size area perimeter major and minor axis lengths etc. intensity measures mean median standard variation max min percentiles etc. and texture measures co occurrence matrix derived features run length derived features wavelet derived features fractal derived features etc. . If the emerging colony region contains multiple components the number of components and the multi component structures are measured. The multi component structure measures include the population statistics mean median standard deviation etc. of the size shape intensity and texture measures for the components as a group.

If there are more than one imaging modalities such as phase contrast DIC fluorescence luminescence and color channels. Color or multi spectrum features can also be included for intensity and texture measures.

In the embodiment where the emerging colony cell image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame in colony emerging state the temporal changes in emerging colony features can be measured as the growth pattern temporal features. The measure of radius growth along the angular axis of the polar coordinate mean and standard deviation can reflect the rate of area change and the symmetry of the area changes. The symmetry of the area changes is an especially important feature as some colonies form as the steady emergence of a small dense core. Other types of colonies emerge all at once and from multiple regions.

If time lapse image is available the temporal measures include the starting time of the emerging colony state since the starting of the reprogramming and emerging colony kinetic measures such as growth rate growth structure etc. The temporal measures could include temporal velocity if at least 3 frames are available and acceleration if at least 4 frames are available of the feature changes.

In addition if 3D image is available the measures can be directly extended to 3D. For example all length measures are in 3D and area becomes volume.

If the emerging colony has previously passed the image guided pre colony selection the emerging colony features can be enriched with the pre colony region context features measured during the pre colony state . The enriched feature set including both emerging colony features and pre colony region context features can be used for the emerging colony selection decision .

The emerging colony decision step uses at least one emerging colony feature to make an emerging colony selection decision . In one embodiment of the invention the selection decision is reprogramming outcomes such as iPSC vs. Non iPSC . iPSC decision is for predicting emerging colony that is likely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. Non iPSC decision is for predicting emerging colony that is unlikely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. In another embodiment of the invention the selection decision is differentiation outcomes such as Differentiable vs. Non Differentiable . Differentiable decision is for predicting emerging colony that is likely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . Non Differentiable decision is for predicting emerging colony that is unlikely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . The differentiation can be performed either by direct programming that bypass the follow on reprogramming process or by first reprogrammed into iPSC or partial iPSC and then expanded and differentiated into the desired cell types. The desired cell types include without limitation neurons cardiomyocytes blood cells hepatocytes pancreatic cells muscle cells lung cells etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the emerging colony selection decision is performed by the hierarchic decision method such as regulation tree Lee Regulation of hierarchic decisions in intelligent systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 948 Apr. 18 2006 and Lee Information integration method for decision regulation in hierarchic decision systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 293 000 Nov. 6 2007 . Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that other pattern classification methods such as linear classifiers support vector machines quadratic classifiers kernel estimation methods boosting artificial neural networks gene expression programming Bayesian networks etc. are all within the scope of the current invention.

In another embodiment of the invention the decision method does not output a crisp decision that is binary Yes No decision. Instead a score is output from the decision method. The score can then be thresholded for a binary decision. In this case the threshold level can be used to control the sensitivity and specificity or positive predictive value of the decision output. In this embodiment a threshold can be set to have very high positive predictive value even if the sensitivity is low. This allows the selection of just a few very high confident emerging colonies for continued processing.

The emerging colony that is selected for continued processing by the emerging colony selection decision will likely progress to the colony growing state . It can be further selected progressively by the growing colony state decision method described in the next section.

The colony patterns in the colony growing state can be used to perform growing colony selection decision through an image guided growing colony selection method. shows the processing flow for the growing colony state decision of the current invention. The input cell is reprogrammed to the colony growing state . A growing colony image is acquired and processed by the image guided growing colony selection step to generate a growing colony selection decision . The growing colony selection decision is used to make a Go decision. If the decision is Yes the growing colony is continued reprogrammed to reach the colony harvesting state . If the decision is No no further selection decision will be made to the growing colony and depending on the assay protocol the reprogramming may stop on the rejected growing colony to reduce wasteful processing cost.

As shown in a computerized image guided growing colony selection method inputs at least one growing colony image . It performs growing colony region recognition using the growing colony image to generate growing colony region output. It then performs growing colony measurement using the growing colony region to generate at least one growing colony feature output . At least one growing colony feature is used to perform growing colony decision that generates growing colony selection decision output.

Growing colony region recognition method performs growing colony detection to detect at least one growing colony. In one embodiment of the invention the growing colony is detected using the learnable object segmentation method Lee et al learnable object segmentation U.S. Pat. No. 7 203 360 and refined by the structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement method Lee Structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 175 guided by the method of directed pattern enhancement Lee et al Method of directed pattern enhancement for flexible recognition U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 974 464 and 8 014 590 .

To improve the growing colony detection accuracy in another embodiment of the invention the growing colony cell image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame in colony growing state. Therefore the growing colony detection of the early frame image can be guided by the growing colony in the later frame. An image alignment may be performed between the early and later frame images. After the alignment the growing colony detection is performed within a region in early frame image that is in close proximity to the location of the corresponding colony in the later frame image. This also serves as a cross check of the growing colony detection in the later frame.

Growing colony region is used to measure at least one growing colony feature from a set of growing colony features. In one embodiment of the invention the growing colony region is divided into outside and inside regions. The outside region can be detected by a morphological erosion residue processing of the growing colony region or by image segmentation from outside in. The remaining region is the inside region. Features can be measured for outside and inside regions separately. The feature set includes morphological measures such as shape compactness elongateness major minor length ratio Fourier descriptors etc. and size area perimeter major and minor axis lengths etc. intensity measures mean median standard variation max min percentiles etc. and texture measures co occurrence matrix derived features run length derived features wavelet derived features fractal derived features etc. . If there are more than one imaging modalities such as phase contrast DIC fluorescence luminescence and color channels. Color or multi spectrum features can also be included for intensity and texture measures.

In addition the ratio and difference for the features of outside and inside regions are calculated as the contrast features.

In the embodiment where the emerging colony cell image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame in colony growing state the temporal changes in growing colony features can be measured as the growth pattern temporal features. The measure of radius growth along the angular axis of the polar coordinate mean and standard deviation can reflect the rate of area change and the symmetry of the area changes. The symmetry of area changes is an especially important feature as some colonies form as the steady emergence of a small dense core. Other types of colonies emerge all at once and from multiple regions.

If time lapse image is available the temporal measures include the starting time of the colony growing state since the starting of the reprogramming and growing colony kinetic measures such as growth rate growth structure etc. The temporal measures could include temporal velocity if at least 3 frames are available and acceleration if at least 4 frames are available of the feature changes.

In addition if 3D image is available the measures can be directly extended to 3D. For example all length measures are in 3D and area becomes volume.

If the growing colony has previously passed the image guided emerging colony selection the growing colony features can be enriched with the emerging colony features measured during the colony emerging state . The enriched feature set including both growing colony features and emerging colony features can be used in the growing colony selection decision .

The growing colony decision step uses at least one growing colony feature to make a growing colony selection decision . In one embodiment of the invention the selection decision is reprogramming outcomes such as iPSC vs. Non iPSC . iPSC decision is for predicting growing colony that is likely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. Non iPSC decision is for predicting growing colony that is unlikely to be successfully re programmed into induced pluripotent stem cells. In another embodiment of the invention the selection decision is differentiation outcomes such as Differentiable vs. Non Differentiable . Differentiable decision is for predicting growing colony that is likely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . Non Differentiabe decision is for predicting growing colony that is unlikely to be successfully differentiated into the desired cell type s . The differentiation can be performed either by direct programming that bypass the follow on reprogramming process or by first reprogrammed into iPSC or partial iPSC and then expanded and differentiated into the desired cell types. The desired cell types include without limitation neurons cardiomyocytes blood cells hepatocytes pancreatic cells muscle cells lung cells etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the growing colony selection decision is performed by the hierarchic decision method such as regulation tree Lee Regulation of hierarchic decisions in intelligent systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 948 Apr. 18 2006 and Lee Information integration method for decision regulation in hierarchic decision systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 293 000 Nov. 6 2007 . Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that other pattern classification methods such as linear classifiers support vector machines quadratic classifiers kernel estimation methods boosting artificial neural networks gene expression programming Bayesian networks etc. They are all within the scope of the current invention.

In another embodiment of the invention the decision method does not output a crisp decision that is a binary Yes No decision. Instead a score is output from the decision method. The score can then be thresholded for a binary decision. In this case the threshold level can be used to control the sensitivity and specificity or positive predictive value of the decision output. In this embodiment a threshold can be set to have very high positive predictive value even if the sensitivity is low. This allows the selection of just a few very high confident growing colony for continued processing.

The growing colony that is selected for continued processing by the growing colony selection decision will likely progress to the colony harvesting state . It can be further selected progressively by the harvesting colony state decision method.

The matured colony in the colony harvesting state can be further tested before picking and expansion to establish an iPSC line. In one embodiment of the invention the harvesting colony state decision can be performed by image guided method similar to the growing colony state decision. In another embodiment of the invention TRA 1 60 surface marker or viral GFP silencing is imaged and used to detect iPSC colonies from non iPSC ones. In yet another embodiment of the invention the iPSC PCR Array is used to analyze multiple biologically validated pluripotency biomarkers to distinguish fully reprogrammed iPSC colonies from partially reprogrammed ones.

The progressive selection method of the current invention is applicable not only to iPSC reprogramming processes but also to biological cellular processes such as stem cell production stem cell differentiation cell culture production and cell transformation assays etc.

In a biological cellular process a plurality of intermediate states can be defined. We call them first state second state etc. until second to last state and last state. The processing flow of the progressive selection method is shown in . During the first state first state cell image is subjected to image guided first state cell selection . The first state cells with a decision outcome of Yes for the Go decision will continue the biological cellular and selection processes. The first state cells with decision outcome corresponding to NO in the Go decision will not be selected and the biological cellular process could continue or could be discontinued if it is practically convenient to do so. After the selected first state cells have progressed to the second state the second state cell image are subjected to image guided second state cell selection . The second state cells or colonies with a decision outcome corresponding to Yes in the Go decision will continue the biological cellular and selection processes. The second state cells or colonies with decision outcome corresponding to NO in the Go decision will not be selected and the biological cellular process could continue or could be discontinued if it is practically convenient to do so.

The biological cellular and selection processes continue until the selected cells or colonies have progressed to the second to last state . The second to last state cell image is subjected to image guided second to last state cell selection . The second to last state cells or colonies with a decision outcome corresponding to Yes in the Go decision will continue the biological cellular and selection processes. The second to last state cells or colonies with decision outcome corresponding to NO in the Go decision will not be selected and the biological cellular process could continue or could be discontinued if it is practically convenient to do so. Similarly after the selected second to last state cells or colonies have progressed to the last state the last state cells image is subjected to image guided last state cell selection . The last state cells or colonies with a decision outcome corresponding to Yes in the Go decision will be harvested as the harvested cell . The last state cells or colonies with decision outcome corresponding to NO in the Go decision will not be harvested.

Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that some of the intermediate selection steps could be skipped depending on the processes. In addition the first selection step could start at any the processing states.

As shown in for a given state a computerized image guided state cell selection method inputs at least one state cell image . It performs state colony region recognition using the state cell image to generate state cell region output. It then performs state cell measurement using the state cell region to generate at least one state cell feature output. At least one state cell feature is used to perform state cell decision that generates state cell selection decision output.

State cell region recognition method performs state cell or colony detection to detect the region of the state cell or colony. In one embodiment of the invention the state cell or colony is detected using the learnable object segmentation method Lee et al learnable object segmentation U.S. Pat. No. 7 203 360 and refined by the structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement method Lee Structure guided image processing and image feature enhancement U.S. Pat. No. 6 463 175 guided by the method of directed pattern enhancement Lee et al Method of directed pattern enhancement for flexible recognition U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 974 464 and 8 014 590 .

To improve the state cell or colony detection accuracy in another embodiment of the invention the state cell image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame of the same state. Therefore the state cell region detection of the early frame image can be guided by the state cell region in the later frame. An image alignment may be performed between the early and later frame images. After alignment the state cell region detection is performed within a region in early frame image that is in close proximity to the location of the corresponding state cell region in the later frame image. This also serves as a cross check of the state cell region detection in the later frame.

State cell or colony region is used to measure at least one State cell feature from a set of State cell features. In one embodiment of the invention the feature set includes morphological measures such as shape compactness elongateness major minor length ratio Fourier descriptors etc. and size area perimeter major and minor axis lengths etc. intensity measures mean median standard variation max min percentiles etc. and texture measures co occurrence matrix derived features run length derived features wavelet derived features fractal derived features etc. . If the state cell or colony region contains multiple components the number of components and the multi component structures can be measured. The multi component structure measures include the population statistics mean median standard deviation etc. of the size shape intensity and texture measures for the components as a group.

If there are more than one imaging modalities such as phase contrast DIC fluorescence luminescence and color channels. Color or multi spectrum features can also be included for intensity and texture measures.

In the embodiment where state cell image further includes at least one additional image acquired in a later frame in the same state the temporal changes in state cell features can be measured as the growth pattern temporal features.

If time lapse image is available the temporal measures include the starting time of the state since the starting of the process and state cell kinetic measures such as growth rate growth structure etc. The temporal measures could include temporal velocity if at least 3 frames are available and acceleration if at least 4 frames are available of the feature changes.

In addition if 3D image is available the measures can be directly extended to 3D. For example all length measures are in 3D and area becomes volume.

The state cell features can be enriched with the previous state cell features measured during the previous states. The enriched feature set including both state cell features and previous state cell features can be used in the state cell decision.

The state cell decision step uses at least one state cell feature to make a state cell selection decision . The selection decision could be reprogramming outcomes such as iPSC vs. Non iPSC or differentiation outcomes such as Differentiable vs. Non Differentiable or cell production QA outcomes such as Good quality vs. poor quality reject or cell transformation outcomes such as success or failure or Continue vs. stop etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the state cell decision is performed by the hierarchic decision method such as regulation tree Lee Regulation of hierarchic decisions in intelligent systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 948 Apr. 18 2006 and Lee Information integration method for decision regulation in hierarchic decision systems U.S. Pat. No. 7 293 000 Nov. 6 2007 . Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that other pattern classification methods such as linear classifiers support vector machines quadratic classifiers kernel estimation methods boosting artificial neural networks gene expression programming Bayesian networks etc. are all within the scope of the current invention.

In another embodiment of the invention the decision method does not output a crisp decision that is binary Yes No decision. Instead a score is output from the decision method. The score can then be thresholded for a binary decision. In this case the threshold level can be used to control the sensitivity and specificity or positive predictive value of the decision output. In this embodiment a threshold can be set to have very high positive predictive value even if the sensitivity is low. This allows the selection of just a few very high confident cells or colonies for continued processing.

Those ordinary skilled in the art should recognize that some of the intermediate selection steps could be skipped depending on the biological cellular processes. In addition the first selection step could start at any the process states.

The invention has been described herein in considerable detail in order to comply with the Patent Statutes and to provide those skilled in the art with the information needed to apply the novel principles and to construct and use such specialized components as are required. However it is to be understood that the inventions can be carried out by specifically different equipment and devices and that various modifications both as to the equipment details and operating procedures can be accomplished without departing from the scope of the invention itself.

