---

title: Non-inertial safe and arm device
abstract: A safety and arming device may include a substrate and a frame fixed to the substrate. The frame may include a travel slot, a head socket, first and second gas expansion chambers having respective first and second nozzles, and first and second safety catch surfaces disposed adjacent to the respective first and second nozzles. A slider may be translatably disposed in the travel slot in the frame. The slider may include a latching head operable to latch in the head socket in an armed position of the device, a storage cavity for storing an explosive charge, first and second cantilevered arms disposed axially apart from each other and angled outwardly from the slider, and first and second deactivation cavities disposed adjacent to the respective first and second cantilevered arms. A spring may bias the slider away from the head socket.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08640620&OS=08640620&RS=08640620
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08640620
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120305
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to fuzes and safety and arming S A devices and in particular to non inertial non spin S A devices.

To assure safety in the transportation handling and deployment of military hardware with explosive components munition fuze safety standards such as MIL STD 1316 or STANAG 4187 require that two unique and independent aspects of the launch or deployment environment be detected in the weapon fuze system before the weapon can be enabled to arm. Examples of aspects of the projectile launch environment that are sensed electronically or mechanically in existing munition system S A devices include but are not limited to setback acceleration rifling or fin induced spin and gun or launch tube exit or airflow drag due to high velocity travel.

S A devices for conventional military munitions may use setback i.e. gun launch acceleration and projectile spin as inertial inputs or environments to effect arming. However some tube or gun launched munitions may not utilize bore rifling to spin the projectile. And other munitions such as hand grenades or mines may not be launched from a gun or tube platform and therefore may lack spin and setback accelerations entirely.

Some prior S A devices are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 316 186 Air Powered Electro Mechanical Fuze for Submunition Grenades issued 8 Jan. 2008 to Robinson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 964 231 Miniature MEMS Based Electro Mechanical Safety and Arming Device issued 15 Nov. 2005 to Robinson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 308 631 to Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 173 650 to Garvick et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 167 809 issued on Jan. 2 2001 to Robinson et al. entitled Ultra Miniature Monolithic Mechanical Safety and Arming Device for Projected Munitions U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 910 to Last et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 906 issued on Dec. 2 1997 to Van Sloun and entitled Electro Mechanical Safety and Arming Device U.S. Pat. No. 5 275 107 issued on Jan. 4 1994 to Weber et al. and entitled Gun Launched Non Spinning Safety and Arming Mechanism and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 434 093 filed on May 1 2009 entitled Ultra Miniature Electro Mechanical Safety and Arming Device and having the same assignee as this application. All the above listed patents and patent applications are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

All of the devices in the aforementioned patent literature use at least one of the following environments to achieve electro mechanical safety and arming setback acceleration during gun or tube launch rifling or fin induced spin and gun or tube launch exit and airflow drag due to high velocity projectile travel.

A long felt and unsolved need exists for an apparatus and method for the safety and arming of explosive hardware without the use of or necessity for setback acceleration projectile spin or airflow drag. Such an apparatus and method may enable wide application of explosive components for example across different weapons systems or platforms and may increase the safety of munitions which could not previously take advantage of advanced safety features.

It is an object of the invention to provide an apparatus and method for the safety and arming of explosive hardware without the use of or necessity for setback acceleration projectile spin or airflow drag.

One aspect of the invention is a safety and arming device that may include a substrate and a frame fixed to the substrate. The frame may include a travel slot a head socket first and second gas expansion chambers having respective first and second nozzles and first and second safety catch surfaces disposed adjacent to the respective first and second nozzles. A slider may be translatably disposed in the travel slot in the frame.

The slider may include a latching head operable to latch in the head socket in an armed position of the device a storage cavity for storing an explosive charge first and second cantilevered arms disposed axially apart from each other and angled outwardly from the slider and first and second deactivation cavities disposed adjacent to the respective first and second cantilevered arms.

A spring may bias the slider away from the head socket. In a first safe position of the device an end of the first cantilevered arm may contact the first safety catch surface to thereby prevent translation of the slider toward the head socket and an end of the second cantilevered arm may be spaced apart from the second safety catch surface.

The frame may include a second head socket. One end of the spring may be fixed to the slider and another end of the spring may be fixed to a second latching head. The second latching head may be disposed in the second head socket. The latching head and the second latching head may include flexible barbs for locking the latching heads in respective head sockets.

The substrate may include a receptor charge hole. The receptor charge hole may be aligned with the storage cavity in the slider in an armed position of the device and not aligned with the storage cavity in the slider in the first safe position of the device. In a second safe position of the device the first cantilevered arm may be plastically deformed into the first deactivation cavity and the end of the second cantilevered arm may contact the second safety catch surface. In the second safe position of the device the receptor charge hole may not be aligned with the storage cavity in the slider.

In the armed position of the device the first cantilevered arm may be plastically deformed into the first deactivation cavity and the second cantilevered arm may be plastically deformed into the second deactivation cavity.

Another aspect of the invention is a method that may include providing a safety and arming device and delivering gas to a first gas expansion chamber. The gas may be used to deform a first cantilevered arm into a first deactivation cavity. The method may include exerting a force other than an inertial force on a slider to translate the slider toward a head socket. An end of a second cantilevered arm may contact a safety catch surface to stop translation of the slider toward the head socket.

The method may include delivering a second gas to a second gas expansion chamber. The second gas may be used to deform the second cantilevered arm into a second deactivation cavity. Then the latching head of the slider may be translated into the head socket.

Another aspect of the invention is a safety and arming assembly that may include a safety and arming device and a cover assembly disposed adjacent to the safety and arming device. The cover assembly may include an input explosive column and a pair of through holes for gas. One through hole may communicate with a first gas expansion chamber and another through hole may communicate with a second gas expansion chamber.

In an armed position of the safety and arming device the input explosive column may be aligned with a storage cavity in a slider and with a receptor charge hole in a substrate.

A dielectric layer may be disposed adjacent to the cover assembly. The dielectric layer may include a first spot charge aligned with the input explosive column of the cover assembly a second spot charge aligned with the one of the through holes in the cover assembly and a third spot charge aligned with the other of the though holes in the cover assembly.

An initiator board assembly may be disposed adjacent to the dielectric layer. The initiator board assembly may include electrically initiated circuits for initiating the first second and third spot charges in the dielectric layer.

An output explosive assembly may be disposed adjacent to a substrate of the safety and arming device. The output explosive assembly may include an output explosive column aligned with the receptor charge hole in the substrate.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A MEMS S A device may be used for electro mechanical fuzes and S A assemblies. The device may be used in non inertial or low inertial environments. The device may be used with non spin or low spin rate munitions. For military applications the device may be used for munitions that are not gun launched. The device may enable safety and arming in apparatus that cannot use set back acceleration and or spin to differentiate between a safe state and an armed state.

The device may include interrelated mechanical and electronic safety logic for reliability and safety. The device may incorporate and manipulate a key moveable component in a microscale firetrain. The microscale firetrain when activated may begin with an initiating spot charge and end with a detonating output at the output end of the S A assembly.

The S A device may be fabricated using micro electro mechanical systems MEMS based technology and processes. The S A device may be fabricated or assembled using similar scale technologies such as micro molding electro plating polishing and releasing metal and ceramic nano powder molding micro casting or sintering etc. A principal application of the S A device may be in the field of military weaponry. The weaponry may include for example devices such as hand grenades detonators micro flight robot and cyborg insect payloads and unmanned vehicle munitions. The device may be used in civilian commercial and aerospace systems as well.

The device may at a minimum satisfy the requirements of munition safety standards and best practices. The device may satisfy the above safety requirements through the exploitation of sequential electromechanical inputs. The S A device may provide a safe reliable miniaturized efficient means of executing electro mechanical safety and arming logic for the operational life cycle of for example military munitions hardware that contains explosives and hardware that contains energetic material. The device may execute safety and arming functions without traditional environmental inputs such as setback acceleration rifling or fin induced spin gun or launch tube exit and airflow drag due to high velocity projectile travel. By using MEMS miniaturization to reduce its size the S A device may increase the effectiveness of munition fuzes in which it is used. For example the smaller size and weight of the S A device may enable more weapon payload or the addition of other devices such as integrated electronics etc. Devices such as integrated electronics may improve munition sensing and or performance on target.

The S A device may enable safety and arming in applications that previously could not take advantage of a S A device thereby greatly increasing the safety of the end user for example military personnel. The device may also use mechanical logic that may be simpler than known electro mechanical safety and arming devices. These simplifications may have the benefit of reducing the parts count or the number of operations necessary to manufacture and produce the S A device thereby reducing the cost of manufacturing. Fewer parts and fewer manufacturing operations may improve the reliability of the S A device. Additionally reducing the overall size of the S A assembly may enable munition fuze designers to place MIL STD 1316 compliant S A devices in smaller and lighter applications and or to advantageously utilize the fuze volume saved by the smaller S A device for other purposes.

The S A device may enable the use of electronic logic based fuzes in some applications whereas in the past only mechanical stab initiated fuzes could be used. The incorporation of electronic logic in such systems enables more accurate timing and subsequently greater safety compared to for example pyrotechnic powder column delay fuzes. Electronic logic may also enable the integration of sensors such as impact switches anti tamper switches acoustic sensors and radio frequency or other electro magnetic or remote command signals. Electronic logic may enable the use of self destruct or self neutralization functions and improved reliability.

The design of the S A device may incorporate safety as a paramount goal. For example the S A device may contain no stored energy that is capable of mechanically arming the S A. The inventive MEMS S A device may fulfill the safety requirements for fuzing in MIL STD 1316 Safety Criteria for Fuze Designs. It may also meet the safety requirements stated in NATO Standardization Agreement STANAG 4187 Fuzing Systems Safety Design Requirements.

The safety of the S A device of a fuze may derive from the selective mechanical and electro mechanical logic intrinsic to the design. Predetermined external inputs may be used as triggers for the device s arming actions. External inputs that do not match the proper sequence of the predetermined external inputs may result in one of two outcomes a the mechanical logic elements may partially respond to the inputs and then reset to their original safe unarmed position or b the mechanical logic elements may partially respond to the inputs and due to the out of sequence or improper nature of the inputs the mechanical elements may finish in a failed safe condition.

Initiator board assembly may include an initiator fuze interface component that ignites the initiating explosives. Initiator board assembly may include contact pads that may enable assembly to be surface mounted directly on a fuze circuit board if desired. Cover assembly may contain explosives and may enable explosive build up. MEMS S A device may respond to input stimuli and effectuate and manage the position of a key movable firetrain element in relation to input and output explosive trains. Output explosive assembly may augment and direct the explosive output. An operational novelty in device and assembly is the ability to arm S A device without the use of traditional arming environments. Thus device and assembly may be used in entirely new S A applications such as a hand grenade fuze having a fully out of line firetrain thereby increasing safety for the end user.

As shown in MEMS S A device may include a substrate and a frame fixed to substrate . Frame may include a travel slot a head socket and first and second gas expansion chambers . Gas expansion chambers may include respective nozzles . First and second safety catch surfaces may be disposed adjacent to respective nozzles . A latching and arming slider may be translatably disposed in travel slot in frame . Travel slot may guide and constrain the in plane motion of slider as slider translates from a safe to an armed position. Frame and slider may be made of for example metal. Metal may provide strength ductility and explosive confinement.

Slider may include a latching head operable to latch in head socket in an armed position of device . Slider may include a storage cavity for storing an explosive transfer charge . A membrane may seal the bottom of storage cavity . Slider may include a manipulator probe hole .

Slider may include first and second cantilevered arms disposed axially apart from each other. Disposed axially apart means spaced apart along the translation axis of slider . As viewed in the translation axis of slider is horizontal. Arms may be angled outwardly from slider so that arms may engage respective safety catch surfaces . In some embodiments more than two cantilevered arms may be included. First and second deactivation cavities may be disposed in slider adjacent to respective first and second cantilevered arms . Device may include a spring that biases slider away from head socket . In a safe position of device an end of first cantilevered arm may contact first safety catch surface to thereby prevent translation of slider toward head socket . In the safe position of an end of second cantilevered atm may be spaced apart from second safety catch surface .

Frame may include a second head socket . One end of spring may be fixed to slider and another end of spring may be fixed to a second latching head . Second latching head may be disposed in second head socket . During assembly of S A device latching head may be extended into head socket while in plane with travel slot to ensure a spring tension that biases slider away from the aimed position. As viewed in spring tension of spring biases slider horizontally to the left.

Latching heads may include flexible barbs for locking latching heads in respective head sockets . Barbs may elastically or plastically deform to allow latching heads to enter sockets and then spring back sufficiently to lock heads inside respective sockets . Latching head may include a probe hole to assist in placing latching head in head socket .

Substrate may include a receptor charge hole containing a receptor charge . Receptor charge hole may be aligned with storage cavity in slider in an armed position of device . In a safe position of device receptor charge hole may not be aligned with storage cavity in slider . Receptor charge hole may be a blind hole that opens on a side of substrate opposite frame . A membrane not shown may be disposed in one end of receptor charge hole between substrate and frame . The membrane may prevent particles of receptor charge from entering travel slot . Receptor charge may be detonated by the explosive output of transfer charge in storage cavity when slider is in the armed position.

Referring to initiator board assembly may be a laminated circuit board or a flex circuit. Initiator board assembly may electrically connect to a fuze circuit not shown via contact pads . The bottom surface of initiator board assembly may include a lamination having integral electrically conductive traces. The electrically conductive traces may incorporate thin film bridges for initiation of explosive spot charges . Electrical connection may be made through the thickness of the initiator board assembly from the fuze circuit interface contact pads on top to the conductive traces located in the bottom surface.

Dielectric layer may include openings therein to give access to and provide explosive loading volume for two or more initiator bridges. Primary explosive spot charges may be loaded on top of the thin film or other type bridges at these locations. A firetrain initiator bridge and spot charge may be thermally or electrically stimulated to thereby initiate the train of microscale explosive components inside the MEMS S A assembly . The train of explosive components may build up to a detonating output to initiate an external firetrain such as that of a military weapon or cause another desired outcome.

 Command initiator bridges and spot charges and in dielectric layer may be thermally or electrically stimulated to thereby generate gases that flow through respective command holes and in cover assembly . Gases generated from spot charges and may pressurize gas expansion chambers and in frame to thereby actuate or disable first cantilevered arm or second cantilevered arm depending on the location of slider . Firetrain initiator bridge and spot charge may align with fire into and initiate an input explosive column in cover assembly . Input explosive column may be loaded in a through hole in cover assembly .

Cover assembly may protect and mechanically constrain slider to operate in plane in MEMS device . Cover assembly may assist the transfer of or amplify the explosive or energetic output from initiator bridges and spot charges in dielectric layer . Ignition of explosive column in cover assembly may build to a detonation prior to output at the bottom side of cover assembly as explained in U.S. Pat. No. 7 055 437 entitled Micro Scale Firetrain for Ultra Miniature Electro Mechanical Safety and Arming Device issued to Robinson et al. on Jun. 6 2006 and in U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 861 entitled Micro Scale Firetrain for Ultra Miniature Electro Mechanical Safety and Arming Device issued to Robinson et al. on Jul. 4 2006. The contents of U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 055 437 and 7 069 861 are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Output explosive assembly may include an output charge cavity into which an output explosive charge may be placed. Output charge may be configured to fire explosively or energetically straight through the plane of the base of output explosive assembly or to fire laterally out any of the edges or in any direction needed. Output charge may be protected by a membrane of material that is part of the base of output explosive assembly . Receptor charge in substrate may fire into and detonate output charge .

When slider is in the armed position transfer charge in slider may be aligned with input explosive column in cover assembly and may also be aligned with receptor charge in substrate . Input column may include a combination or stack of primary sensitive and secondary explosives. Transfer charge receptor charge and output explosive charge may be composed of secondary explosives. When slider is in a first safe position transfer charge may not be aligned with input explosive column nor with receptor charge . Transfer charge may be held some lateral distance away from both input explosive column and receptor charge for safety reasons. Thus in the safe position of an unintended initiation of input column would not be able to transfer through frame or substrate and into receptor charge . The safe position of renders the assembly incapable of unintended explosive transfer as is explained in U.S. Pat. No. 7 055 437.

As manufactured the movable components of MEMS S A device may be disposed as shown in with slider inserted into or alternately fabricated in situ inside frame . Slider may be positioned at the left end of travel slot with spring pre tensioned by insertion of spring latching head into head socket where head latches. Cantilevered arms may extend downward away from slider .

From the point of manufacture to the point of use S A assembly may experience diverse dynamic and inertial inputs. These inputs may result from for example manufacturing imposed loads in the factory manual handling inspection packaging freight loading and transportation storage and logistical deployment. These inputs may include impacts accelerations and a spectrum of vibration inputs. The S A assembly is designed to reject all such inputs and combinations of events up to but not including the inputs desired for operation by retaining slider in the safe position of . The S A assembly may reject vibration inputs so far as arming is concerned because slider may be locked in place by first cantilevered arm resting on corresponding safety catch surface and also because of tensioned spring that is locked in place with latching head .

The S A assembly may also reject logistical acceleration inputs such as impacts so far as arming is concerned again because of first cantilevered arm and safety catch surface the first safety lock and also because of tensioned spring . In the event of deflection of cantilevered arm due to for example unintended initiation of spot charge slider may be slightly displaced. But spring may restore slider to the safe position. Even after a lateral applied acceleration toward arming rightward slider may also remain in the safe position due to the factors mentioned above. Additionally slider may be prevented from arming in the event that cantilevered arm is bent or unintentionally deformed upward into deactivation cavity and spring failed because end of second cantilevered arm would contact safety catch surface .

During the course of intended operation S A assembly may encounter environmental conditions or designated inputs that may trigger arming. For example an unmanned aerial vehicle UAV may be loaded with a munition while on the ground and arming of the munition may be desired when the UAV reaches a certain altitude. Or a hand grenade equipped with S A assembly may require a soldier to pull a pin and release a handle to trigger an arming sequence.

In S A device is in the first safe position with the first safety lock enabled that is end of cantilevered arm is in contact with safety catch surface . Initiation of first command initiator bridge and spot charge releases gas through opening in cover assembly and pressurizes gas expansion chamber . Gas in chamber is forced through nozzle and impinges energetically on cantilevered arm . Cantilevered arm may be permanently deformed upward into deactivation cavity see where it rests during the remainder of its operational life. The removal of cantilevered arm permits slider to translate provided that a body force for example a magnetic force is acting on slider to move it into the second safe position shown in . Forces other than a magnetic force may be used. In the case of a magnetic force the force may be supplied by a permanent magnet and slider may be made of a magnetically permeable material.

In the second safe position end of arm contacts safety catch surface and creates a seal for gas expansion chamber . From the second safe position of if the body force was removed spring would draw slider back to its initial safe position shown in . From the initial safe position of and irrespective of the condition of first cantilevered arm a premature initiation of second spot charge would force gas at high pressure into gas expansion chamber and through its corresponding nozzle . The gas from nozzle would act on the upper face the face adjacent to deactivation cavity of second cantilevered arm and permanently deform arm downward into frame as shown in .

In the state shown in with second arm deformed downward if a body force were again applied to slider to attempt to advance it towards arming permanently deformed arm would engage with safety catch surface and permanently prevent movement of slider to the armed position shown in . This sequence of events would correspond to a failed safe condition of the S A device .

Referring again to the transition from the first safe position of to the second safe position of although first cantilevered arm may be deformed upward by initiation of spot charge slider may not advance further toward arming without a body force being exerted on slider . The body force may be a magnetic force supplied by for example permanent magnet . The magnetic force of magnet may tend to pull slider towards head socket thereby stretching spring and enabling the second safety lock. The second safety lock is enabled when end of cantilevered arm contacts safety catch surface . When the body force acting on slider is a magnetic force slider may be made of a magnetically permeable material. Magnet may be mounted adjacent S A device and S A assembly . Of course other forces may be used to translate slider for arming such as pneumatic electrical or mechanical forces applied by micro machine motors and engagements powered by thermal or piezoelectric or other type drives sometimes referred to as scratch and gear drives. However the force used to translate slider for arming is not an inertial force such as for example spin set back acceleration set forward acceleration etc.

Only in the presence of a body force or other applied driving force may cantilevered arm move into position so that end contacts safety catch surface and creates a seal . Creation of the seal enables the second safety lock cantilevered arm to then be removed. Upon initiation of spot charge gas produced by charge flows through opening in cover assembly and into gas expansion chamber . The pressurized gas in chamber deforms second cantilevered arm upwards into deactivation cavity . Then in the presence of the body or driving force for example from magnet latching head of slider will move towards head socket . When head is latched in socket as shown in the firetrain is then aligned for a complete arming sequence. A complete arming sequence may occur when transfer charge is aligned with input explosive column in cover assembly receptor charge in substrate and output charge in output explosive assembly .

In some embodiments the engagements of ends of arms with respective safety catch surfaces may occur simultaneously and at the same axial translation of slider . In these embodiments the actuations of cantilevered arms by respective spot charges may occur simultaneously. Such an arrangement may be preferred where the demands of safety are not as extreme for example in a civilian market application.

However fuze safety may be enhanced by the requirement that the arming inputs occur in a certain sequence or order specifically initiation of first command spot charge then rightward acceleration of slider due to an external force then while in the presence of the external force initiation of the second spot charge followed by continuing application of the external force to fully latch slider using latching head in socket . The external force such as a magnetic force may be applied at a certain time by for example the generation of a field a pressure or movement of a magnet.

If an unforeseen event causes both command charges to initiate simultaneously the first cantilevered arm may permanently deform into deactivation cavity and the second cantilevered arm may deform downward against frame as shown in causing S A device to be permanently prevented from arming. In the unlikely event that both cantilevered arms were missing or unintentionally deformed upward into respective deactivation cavities slider could still not move into its fully armed position without the imposition of an external force to work against spring thereby providing a final safety measure against unintentional arming. The external force such as a magnetic force may be selectively applied to S A device at various functional stages of device depending on the design of the overall apparatus of which device is a part. Thus the external force may not necessarily always or constantly be applied to device .

A preferred method of constructing slider is wafer based lithography plating and molding technology to achieve a magnetically permeable metal part preferably nickel. Slider may have nearly vertical side walls smooth planar features on top and bottom faces and tight in plane dimensional tolerances on the order of 5 microns. A suitable micro fabrication technique to form such metal parts is LIGA LIthographie Galvanoformung Abformung . An alternative less expensive method is to use lithographically based mold tools LIGA tools to press or form a number of additional molds made of for example plastic and then plate the plastic molds with metal to form precision parts.

Frame may be fabricated of metal and formed using similar lithographic based plating and molding LIGA techniques. Alternative and more economic fabrication methods may include the use of multi pass precision stamping LIGA precision mold tools used as part of micro die casting micro injection molding or molding and sintering type technologies in structural materials such as steel aluminum or tungsten. Fabricating frame and slider of the same material may reduce or eliminate changes to the working clearances due to differential thermal expansion and corrosion due to dissimilar metals.

Cover assembly may be fabricated from a suitable non brittle material that provides structural integrity and adequate explosive confinement for input explosive column and gases generated by spot charges such as aluminum steel or structural plastic or a combination thereof. Cover assembly provides a planar ceiling or cover to allow motion of the moving parts of the MEMS S A device while constraining the moving parts in plane with frame . There is preferably a working clearance inside assembly between cover assembly and the top of slider and between substrate and the bottom of slider to allow motion of slider . The preferred method of construction assures good working clearance on the order of less than 100 microns between slider and features on frame such as travel slot .

Output explosive assembly may be fabricated in metal such as aluminum steel or zinc or suitable alloys that provide adequate explosive confinement and compatibility for the output charge as well as structural rigidity for the MEMS S A assembly . If pins are used to fasten assembly they may be welded to output explosive assembly . Initiator board assembly may be fabricated of typical multi layer circuit board materials. Another method that may be used for integrating the components of assembly may include stacking and sealing the various layers inside an enclosure such as a metal can. 

Assembly may be implemented at an arbitrary scale for example at a scale that is larger than the typical feature sizes for micro scale lithographic fabrication techniques such as LIGA. Such a device would have all the same function and features as assembly except that working clearances might be significantly larger or different than the microns or tens of microns scale of MEMS fabrication. A larger scale device may be manufactured using macro scale or traditional technology to make the parts such as machining stamping die casting molding and sintering etc. Another alternative fabrication method is the use of new technologies for example multi pass precision metal stamping or bulk metallic glass forming that can achieve the same results and dimensional resolution as the preferred LIGA based methods produce and also achieve the intended results of the invention including mechanism function firetrain implementation fuze circuit interface etc. For example cover assembly and output explosive assembly may be fabricated using micro mold and sinter or micro die casting type technologies.

With regard to military hardware assembly may perform fuze safety and arming functions improve fuze performance and reliability expand the field of applications for fuzes with electronic fuze circuits and sensors and miniaturize and reduce the cost of fuze functions for a large number of systems. Assembly may be used with systems that in the past may not have had the option of safety and arming at all or the option of safety and arming in full compliance with MILSTD 1316. In addition to military hardware commercial and or civilian applications may exist. Some military and civilian applications include hand grenade fuzes cyborg insect and micro robot payloads unmanned vehicle systems submunition grenades and mines other military munition and explosive applications emergency circuit breakers for high voltage power industry applications emergency escape hatches for reactors tunnels airframes and ships demolition and mining industry applications aerospace applications such as on orbit locking mechanism de activation and other non military applications such as within the commercial automotive industry airbag safety emergency lock out prevention .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof. For example a rotating arming disc or rotor may be used in place of the linearly translating slider thereby utilizing rotational movement rather than translation. In such a rotary device the mechanical logic and sequential locking and unlocking actions that pertain to the S A functions may be implemented to control rotary motion rather than linear translation. A rotary type of device may include analogous designs for cantilevered arms safety catch surfaces and deactivation cavities.

