---

title: Single wall carbon nanotube diodes
abstract: Methods and devices relating to diodes including single-wall carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) are disclosed according to embodiments of the present invention. According to one embodiment, a diode may include one or more SWCNTs. The SWCNTs may be grouped together in multiple bundles with the SWCNTs being generally aligned parallel to each other in the bundles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09018734&OS=09018734&RS=09018734
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09018734
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120409
---
The application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 475 920 filed Apr. 15 2011 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

This invention resulted from research that was supported by the US Army Research Laboratory Director s Research Initiatives ARL DRI 07 WMR 10 and ARL DRI 08 WMR 20.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to diodes and in particular to single wall carbon nanotube diodes.

Increasing demand for low power consumption in the electronics market combined with continued miniaturization of electronic device components in analogue or digital circuits has led to supply voltage being less than a volt i.e. sub volt levels for many devices. The supply voltage to integrated circuit IC devices are typically provided by AC DC power converters which convert high frequency AC input voltage to a conditioned or rated DC output voltage at a given power level. Low voltage AC DC converters generally consist of a diode rectifier which is often composed of several conventional semiconductor diodes an inductor and capacitor.

Typical rectifier technology however is bulky and has lower power conversion efficiency. In addition conventional power conversion diodes have problems with thermal conductivity heat generation and manufacturing.

Methods and devices relating to diodes including single wall carbon nanotubes SWCNT are disclosed according to embodiments of the present invention.

According to one embodiment a diode may include one or more SWCNTs. The SWCNTs may be grouped together in multiple bundles with the SWCNTs being generally aligned parallel to each other in the bundles. The length of the diode may be approximately 10 15 m and the diameter of the diode may be approximately 1.5 4 nm.

According to another embodiment a rectifier may include one or more of the aforementioned diodes. The one or more diodes may be configured for half wave a full wave or a full wave bridge rectification.

According to yet another embodiment a power converter configured to convert alternating current AC to direct current DC may include one or more of the aforementioned diodes.

According to a further embodiment a method of power conversion may include supplying an input to the aforementioned diode. The input may be 1 3 Vwith a frequency of about 1 1000 Hz.

According to still a further embodiment a method for fabricating a diode may include growing one or more SWCNTs on a substrate. Growing the SWCNTs may include using a catalytically chemical vapor deposition CCVD technique.

Carbon nanotubes have been identified by the inventors as a viable material for ultra low power electronics. This technology can help bring component size down to the nanoscale size i.e. orders of magnitude smaller than conventional electrical systems.

Solid state diodes that include one or more single wall carbon nanotubes SWCNTs are disclosed herein according to embodiments of the present invention. Carbon nanotubes are allotropes of elemental carbon C with a cylindrical structure with a size on the nanometer 10m level. Nanotubes have a very large length to diameter ratio. In diodes according to embodiments of the present invention it has been observed that the SWCNTs are in bundles in some cases. More particularly the SWCNTs may be grouped together in multiple bundles in the diode with the SWCNTs generally being aligned parallel to each other in the bundles. It is believed that the diode like property of the SWNCT bundles most likely results from the structural defects on the SWCNT walls and or the presence of tubes with mixed chirality in the bundles. The channel length or the number of nanotubes appears to have little to no effect on the rectification behavior.

The SWCNTs may be grown on a substrate using a catalytically chemical vapor deposition CCVD technique. For example growth of the SWCNT diodes may be performed according to the methods disclosed in Lastella S et al. Parallel arrays of individually addressable single walled carbon nanotube field effect transistors 2006 99 024302 1 4 and Lastella S. et al. Density control of single walled carbon nanotubes using patterned iron nanoparticle catalysts derived from phase separated thin films of a polyferrocene block copolymer 2004 14 1791 1794 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties. SWCNT growth density and bundle diameter can be controlled by varying the process parameters according to the latter aforementioned publication. Of course other techniques for growing the SWCNT diodes may also be used. For more efficient large scale manufacturing an array of diodes may be fabricated on the substrate. The substrate can then be diced to separate individual diodes.

Before the SWCNTs are grown on the substrate a thin layer of a thermal insulator or an oxide may be first deposited onto the substrate. The layer may be silicon dioxide SiO or other insulator having a thickness of approximately 100 nm for example. It may be deposited using any suitable technique such a chemical vapor deposition CVD or physical vapor deposition PVD technique. Next a thin layer of a precursor film may optionally be applied e.g. by spin casting to the substrate to promote SWCNT growth. One precursor film which may be used for example is amorphous asymmetric PS b PFEMS polystyrene b polyferrocenylethylmethylsilane block copolymer having a thickness ranging from 25 100 nm as discussed in the former aforementioned publication. The film thickness may be used to control the nanotube bundle diameter growth density and or nanotube diameters. For instance it has been found that as the thickness of the film increased the bundle diameter increased while growth density decreased. And as the thickness of the film increases so did the nanotube diameters.

As mentioned above the SWCNTs may be grown using a CCVD technique for example. Using this process highly dispersed long stands e.g. averaging 10 m in length of nearly defect free single tube or thin uniform bundles having diameters of about 1.5 4 nm of pure SWCNT may be produced. The SWCNT density may be changed by controlling the polymer film thickness to create three to six tube bundles per 100 m which provide a high density of separated and relatively disentangled tubes. For a 7.5 m gap diode for instance it is believed that there may be approximately 375 to 750 nanotube bundles.

After the SWCNTs have been fabricated on the substrate the substrate may be optionally annealed to help improve electrode nanotube interfaces and remove any process induced oxide defects. In one embodiment the substrate may be heated to approximately 200 C. for about 30 minutes in an inert atmosphere. For instance during annealing a constant flow of nitrogen may be supplied to the substrate.

The fabricated diodes may have a generally cylindrical shape although other shapes and configurations are possible. For instance the length of the diode may be approximately 10 15 m and the diameter of the diode may be approximately 1.5 4 nm.

The diodes may be used in various analogue or digital circuits. In some embodiments the diodes may be fabricated within an integrated circuit IC electronics module or chip. Diodes may also be fabricated directly in or on a printed circuit board PCB or other electronics platform. In addition the SWCNT diodes can also be configured as switching elements in circuits and electronic devices in which forward bias permits current to pass in an ON state and reverse bias does not enable current to pass in an OFF state.

Power conversion may also be desired for many applications. Thus one or more diodes according the embodiments of the invention may be incorporated into power convertors and rectifiers. These may include power supplies or power cords having power convertors for computers electronic devices appliances or equipment for example.

In particular the diode may be used for power rectification such as converting alternating current AC to direct current DC in some embodiments. The power may be received from a power source including the power grid or another AC power source such as a generator . Wind and tidal energy might also be harvested to provide AC power. In some embodiments the AC power may be received wirelessly. For instance many devices such as radio frequency identification RFID chips biomedical implants and wireless sensors receive energy which is transmitted to it wirelessly usually as an AC power signal and the on board electronics convert to DC power signal.

A pair of electrode pads may be provided for electrically connecting the diode to a power source one pad at the source and the other pad at the drain of the diode. Suitable wiring may be soldered to electrode pads. Alternatively or additionally suitable wiring traces formed in the substrate could connect to the electrode pads. Individual long low defect SWCNT bundles form direct contacts with the electrode pads without a bridging tube network. In one embodiment the surface area of one or both of electrode pads may be about 250 250 m. The electrode pads may be formed by depositing one or more layers of conductive material by a suitable metal electrode deposition technique such as CVD or PVD. In one embodiment the pads may be formed by first depositing a layer of approximately 10 nm of titanium Ti onto the substrate followed by depositing a layer of approximately 100 nm of gold Au onto the deposited Ti layer.

One feature of the AC DC SWCNT diode power converter is its high rectification which allows large current to flow only in one direction or for one phase of the AC input. In some embodiments the forward reverse current ratio of the diode is on the order of 10. Depending on the configuration one or more diodes may be used to covert full wave AC to DC. Full wave rectification may be achieved for instance by combining two half wave converters of opposite polarities as in a conventional full wave rectifier.

A transformer and one or more inductors or capacitors may also be provided as in conventional power supplies to change e.g. step down or step up and or to filter the input output voltage. And a voltage regulator chip may optionally be provided to output rated voltage at a given power level if required for a particular application.

For AC to DC power conversion AC current enters the SWCNT diode as an input. In some instances the input may be about 1 3 Vwith a frequency of about 1 1000 Hz. The diode converts the AC to DC by allowing only one phase of the AC to pass through the diode while substantially blocking the other phase. Thus the diode after receiving an alternating phase positive and negative electrical as an input signal outputs a single phase continuous DC output signal. Input AC power may not be directly useable by some portable electronics computers etc. however the output DC power can be used to power such devices either by connecting the output of the SWCNT diode AC to DC converters directly to the device s power supply and or by storing or charging power in one or more batteries or capacitors for the device.

Utilizing the high forward reverse current ratio efficient AC DC power conversion based on these SWCNT diodes may be realized. Half wave power conversion efficiency of 20 or more has been demonstrated for instance. In addition to low power device applications the simple design and extremely small component size also allows for use in the traditionally Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS field of low voltage energy harvesting. This may be advantageous for various devices such as for example radio frequency identification RFID chips biomedical implants and devices and wireless sensors that require the efficient conversion of an induced low voltage AC signal into a useable DC output in a very small package size.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used for commercial electronic circuitry and power conversion application such as rectification. Benefits may include reduced component size e.g. by three orders of magnitude and weight increased power conversion efficiency lower heat generation reduced thermal conductivity higher heat dissipation simpler device fabrication construction and lower manufacturing costs lower overall device costs.

The inventors fabricated and tested an array of single wall carbon nanotube SWCNT diodes. is a schematic of a SWCNT diode which was fabricated and tested by the inventors.

To fabricate the diode a substrate was first deposited with a layer of thermal oxide . The substrate was a highly doped n type silicon Si substrate which was 15 mm 15 mm which also serves as a back gate . The layer of thermal oxide was silicon dioxide SiO having a thickness of approximately 100 nm.

Next SWCNTs were grown on the thermal oxide . In the array the SWCNTs had varying channel lengths or gaps. Here the SWCNTs were grown using a catalytically chemical vapor deposition CCVD technique. The CCVD fabrication was performed according the technique disclosed in the publication entitled Parallel arrays of individually addressable single walled carbon nanotube field effect transistors mentioned above.

Electrodes then were formed at the terminal ends of the SWCNTs . Here electrode pads were fabricated by photolithographically depositing a 10 nm thick layer of titanium Ti followed by a 100 nm layer of gold Au onto the deposited Ti layer. The dimension of each electrode pad was 250 250 m. The electrode pads serve as source S and drain D separation for the diode respectively.

The substrate was then annealed at 200 C. for 30 minutes in an atmosphere in which a constant flow of nitrogen passed to eliminate any surface oxygen defects. The diodes were connected to a power source which provided an AC power signal for testing. Electrical leads electrically connected the power source to the electrode pads respectively. The leads were wires soldered to the pads 

Scanning electron microscope SEM Hitachi S 4700 and atomic force microscope AFM Veeco CP II instruments were used to locate the bridging carbon nanotubes between the electrodes under ambient conditions and to measure the channel length gap difference .

Experiments by the inventors demonstrate AC DC half wave conversion in the range of 1 1000 Hz by SWCNT diode based rectifiers providing a high degree of rectification i.e. having a forward reverse current ratio of about 10 . This nanoscale diode demonstrated a half wave power conversion efficiency of 20 which is comparable to that reported for larger MOSFET diode designs.

The AC to DC power conversion by the SWCNT diode was determined using a SC analyzer with a four probe micro manipulator to make contact with the diode source drain electrode pads. The source electrode pad of the diode was wired to a pulse generator Agilent 81110 to provide an AC input signal of controlled frequency amplitude and waveform. Here the waveforms were sinusoidal. For lower input frequencies less than 1 Hz the drain electrode pad of the SWCNT diode was connected to the SC analyzer for measurement of the output signal. The output measurements for higher input frequencies were performed on a high sampling rate oscilloscope Agilent 54621A 1 M input resistance .

Further correlation to the rectification behavior is shown by the voltage conversion percentage with a 20.2 14.4 and 3.5 power conversion efficiency PCE for the input voltage of 3V 2V and 1V respectively Table I . It is also noted that the DC outputs from the 2V and 3V input voltages are slightly smaller in magnitude than that predicted from the I V characteristics. It is possible that the higher current loads on the SWCNT junction with metal at elevated voltages results in substantial Joule heating of the diode leading to an increase in the diode resistance. Previous research has estimated a Joule heating effect upwards of 800K for a current flow of 1.5 A through a 7 m CNT channel. At these elevated temperatures the resistance of the tube bundle would increase ultimately lowering the current output from the diode. The effects of Joule heating at the rectifier junction were further exemplified at increased AC input frequencies.

In the 3V input range the half wave PCE of the SWCNT diode is directly comparable to the 20 25 PCE demonstrated by PMOS and MOSFET diodes. To overcome this low efficiency conventional CMOS designs employ complex integrated circuitry and active elements to minimize the cross diode voltage drop allow for full wave conversion and to reduce substrate leakage to realize efficiencies greater than 90 . These same concepts are amenable to the smaller SWCNT diode and designs can be engineered to maximize PCE with a reduced number of components and chip size.

AC DC half wave power conversion by SWCNT diodes with minimum components was demonstrated. Advantage is taken of the nearly five orders of magnitude difference in the magnitude of the current of the diodes between the forward and backward biases. The minimum number of components in the demonstrated rectifier combined with a relatively easy device fabrication process makes it a highly attractive technology for engineering AC DC power converters for low power micro and nano electronics devices.

For many applications the efficiency of the diode at a 60 Hz AC input signal is important. shows half wave power conversion of the SWCNT FET rectifier device at 60 Hz under multiple voltage loads of 1 3 Vat 60 Hz. The same behavior was generally observed for all voltages tested.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

