---

title: Time-stamping of industrial cloud data for synchronization
abstract: A cloud-capable industrial device that provides time-stamped industrial data to a cloud platform is provided. The industrial device collects or generates industrial data in connection with monitoring and/or controlling an automation system, and includes a cloud interface that couples the industrial device to one or more cloud-based services running on a cloud platform. The industrial device can apply time stamps to respective items of industrial data reflecting a time that the data was measured or generated prior to providing the data to the cloud platform. To accurately reflect temporal relationships between data sets provided to the cloud platform from different locations and time zones, the industrial device can synchronize its internal clock with a clock associated with the cloud platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413852&OS=09413852&RS=09413852
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09413852
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 587 531 filed on Feb. 9 2012 and entitled INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION CLOUD COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 162 315 filed on Jun. 4 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 966 on Dec. 19 2006 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHODOLOGY PROVIDING OPEN INTERFACE AND DISTRIBUTED PROCESSING IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTROLLER ENVIRONMENT. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to time stamping of industrial data for cloud based storage computing or analysis.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modem automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures.

Unlike general purpose computing devices industrial automation devices often generate vast amounts of near real time data. This is due in part to the large number of system variables that must be monitored and controlled substantially in real time for a given automation system. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like must be monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that can make up a given automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for near real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. For an enterprise with multiple plant facilities for which data is to be collated the amount of generated automation data increases even more.

Some industrial enterprises comprise multiple facilities residing at different locations sometimes in different time zones. In some cases certain operations at one facility may depend on operations carried out at another facility. For example a sheet metal stamping press at one facility may provide a finished part required by an assembly operation at another facility. Thus downtime events that affect product flow at the first facility can have an impact on operations at the second facility even though that impact may not be seen until several days or weeks after the downtime event. Such correlations are not limited to the plant floor operations. Business level operations financial analysis marketing sales order management resource management inventory management etc. are also affected by events on the plant floor at any given facility. In the other direction business level operations have an effect on the plant floor side operations as when inventory levels drive the demand for manufacture of a particular component or when manufacture of a particular product depends on when an order for a particular material is placed.

In large integrated systems unknown inter dependencies can exist which render trouble shooting of problems difficult. Analyzing such correlations between geographically distributed facilities and between plant level and business level operations can be challenging particularly when an effect of a root cause event at one facility may not be seen at another facility for a relatively long period of time. Analysis can be even more difficult if the manufacturing facilities reside in different time zones.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to time stamping of industrial data for cloud based storage and analysis. To this end cloud capable industrial devices can include internal clocks that are synchronized with a central time provider. Options for the latter include but are not limited to a GPS interface an atomic clock receiver or a centralized Internet based cloud clock associated with a cloud based service or application running on a cloud platform. The industrial devices can then time stamp collected or generated data and provide the time stamped data to the cloud platform for storage and or analysis by the cloud based service or application. In this way data can be collected at the cloud platform across different time zones at different times and the collected data can be associated in a manner that facilitates generation of a larger set of information that can provide a deeper understanding of the data than would be possibly by individual analysis of disparate data sets. For example in a globally integrated system in which a particular event at one location has downstream consequences at a different location possibly in a different time zone time stamping of data can facilitate analysis of the data in the cloud platform to identify cause and effect relationships between the two locations.

In another aspect a cloud based data analysis service can aggregate time stamped industrial data from multiple geographically diverse sources and leverage the time stamp data to facilitate global analysis of selected aspects of an industrial enterprise. For example events represented by the industrial data can be recreated in chronological order and cloud based analysis can be performed on the ordered data in order to deconstruct a source or root cause of a problem e.g. a downtime event . In some embodiments prognostic analysis can also be performed on the time stamped data by the cloud based services to facilitate anomaly prediction. The time stamped data can also make possible cloud based tracking of a product through entire manufacturing distribution sales and use processes even if the product travels between facilities. In yet another aspect time stamped industrial data can be married with video data to provide another dimension of analysis.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in stationary industrial facilities the industrial devices may also be part of a mobile control application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform to leverage cloud based applications. That is the industrial device and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services. Alternatively cloud can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of near real time system data or other factors visualization applications such as cloud based HMIs reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate cloud gateways at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the cloud gateways through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud interface.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud for aggregation collation collective analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. Cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. The cloud platform can allow builders of industrial applications to provide scalable solutions as a service removing the burden of maintenance upgrading and backup of the underlying infrastructure and framework.

To facilitate collective data analysis required by one or more of the cloud based processes described above one or more embodiments of the present application can time stamp industrial data at an industrial device prior to delivering the data to the cloud platform. is a block diagram of an exemplary cloud aware smart device that can associate respective items of industrial data with time stamps that can be leveraged by a cloud based service or application in connection with one or more of the cloud based analyses described above. Aspects of the systems apparatuses or processes explained in this disclosure can constitute machine executable components embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such components when executed by one or more machines e.g. computer s computing device s automation device s virtual machine s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described.

Cloud aware smart device can be virtually any type of device used in conjunction with monitor and or control of an industrial automation system including but not limited to an industrial controller e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers a field device such as a sensor and meter a motor drive a human machine interface HMI or other type of operator interface terminal a data historian that collects and stores industrial data for medium or long term storage an industrial robot a barcode marker or reader a vision system device e.g. vision camera a smart welder or other such industrial devices. In one or more embodiments such industrial devices can automatically communicate with a cloud platform and provide information about the device s context role location etc. to facilitate automatic integration with one or more cloud based applications or services as well as integration with other components of the industrial system. In addition to plant floor devices cloud aware smart device can also be a device associated with a higher level system such as a supervisory control system batch system business intelligence systems enterprise resource planning ERP system a site level historian used for archival data storage and the like.

Cloud aware smart device can include a cloud interface component a synchronization component a time stamp component a user interface component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the cloud interface component synchronization component time stamp component user interface component one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the cloud aware smart device . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Cloud aware smart device may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

Cloud interface component can be configured to couple cloud aware smart device to a web based or private cloud platform and exchange data with the cloud platform. Synchronization component can be configured to synchronize the device s internal clock with a reference time according to any suitable synchronization protocol. For example synchronization component may receive a synchronization signal from an atomic clock receiver a GPS receiver or a network based time service such as an NTP Network Time Protocol RFC 1305 or IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol PTP server. Synchronization component may also receive the synchronization signal from a dedicated service or application residing on the cloud platform that synchronizes the device s internal clock with a clock associated with the cloud platform. Time stamp component can be configured to associate respective data items with a time stamp reflecting a time at which the data item was measured or generated by cloud aware smart device . User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . User input can be for example time zone information defining a time zone in which cloud aware smart device resides display preference information specifying a preferred local display format for time stamp data or other relevant user input. Output data can comprise for example visualization of selected data values stored on cloud aware smart device together with associated time stamp data rendered in a preferred display format.

The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

Industrial controller can exchange data with the controlled industrial processes through I O which can comprise one or more local or remote input and or output modules that communicate with one or more field devices to effect control of the controlled industrial processes . The input and or output modules can include digital modules that send and receive discrete voltage signals to and from the field devices or analog modules that transmit and receive analog voltage or current signals to and from the devices. The input and or output modules can communicate with the controller processor over a backplane or network such that the digital and analog signals are read into and controlled by the control program . Industrial controller can also communicate with field devices over a network using for example a communication module or an integrated networking port. Exemplary networks over which controller can communicate with field devices can include the Internet Intranets Ethernet Ethernet IP DeviceNet ControlNet Data Highway and Data Highway Plus DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus wireless networks serial protocols and the like. It is to be appreciated that industrial controller is not limited to the above specifications and can be any suitable controller used to control an industrial process.

During operation industrial controller generates or collects near real time data relating to controlled industrial processes such as part counts temperatures pressures motor speeds or loads vibration data weights quality test results alarms machine states operator feedback or other such information. Some of this data is read by the industrial controller directly from field devices e.g. telemetry devices associated with the processes themselves while other data can be generated by control program based on measured process values e.g. alarms derived or calculated values etc. . The data collected or generated by industrial controller data raw data can be stored in non volatile memory associated with the industrial controller or may only exist on a transient basis e.g. near real time machine state data that only exists within the controller as long as the machine remains in the indicated state but is not stored in non volatile memory . As used in this disclosure the term raw data is intended to refer to any industrial data that has not been enhanced with time stamp information. This can include but is not limited to data that has been collected generated and or processed by an industrial device e.g. a programmable logic controller automation controller human machine interface network infrastructure device enterprise resource planning system etc. data stored on an industrial device or data historian data generated by field devices e.g. sensors meters etc. or other such data.

Industrial controller is configured to be cloud capable allowing it to connect to a web based or private cloud platform and utilize cloud based services hosted thereon e.g. data storage analysis processing etc. . To this end industrial controller can include a cloud interface component that couples the industrial controller to the cloud. Cloud interface component can be configured to access the cloud through any suitable hardwired or wireless connection to the Internet e.g. through a network connection to an Internet server or through cloud gateway of . In one or more embodiments cloud interface component can execute an auto configuration routine that facilitates connection of industrial controller to the cloud. In accordance with this auto configuration routine the cloud interface component can provide information to the cloud services about the industrial controller and its context within the overall enterprise or plant hierarchy. For example when the industrial controller initially interfaces with the cloud platform during deployment the cloud interface component can provide such information as a device identifier for the controller a geographic location of the controller a location of the controller relative to the greater automation system plant or hierarchy to which the controller belongs indications of other devices or systems in proximity to the controller e.g. devices communicatively coupled to the controller diagnostic information for the controller or other such information that can be used by the cloud services to facilitate integration of the controller within the plant wide or enterprise wide system. Once configured the cloud interface component can push controller data to the cloud and receive data from the cloud services.

To facilitate time based analysis of the industrial data on the cloud platform industrial controller can include a time stamp component configured to associate time stamps to the raw data prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform. For raw data representing measured data values or statuses received at industrial controller from monitored field devices such as metered values or sensor states received via I O the time stamp can correspond to a time at which the metered value was read. For raw data originating within industrial controller such as alarm notifications or data values calculated within industrial controller the time stamp can represent the time that the value or alarm was generated. In either scenario when new raw data is received or generated time stamp component can apply a time stamp to the raw data based on the controller s internal clock to yield time stamped data . The time stamp may also optionally include a UTC Coordinated Universal Time offset or a time zone indicator so that the time zone can be converted to the local time zone of the device that generated the data if necessary. Cloud interface component can then send the time stamped data and associated UTC offset to the cloud platform e.g. over a generic Internet layer for cloud based storage and or processing.

In some configurations the cloud platform may receive data from multiple industrial devices at disparate locations for collective analysis. To facilitate accurate collective analysis of such disparate data sets the time stamps for all data received by the cloud platform should conform to a common time standard. For example in order to accurately determine when an event at a first plant facility occurred relative to an event at a second plant facility the internal device clocks used to time stamp the data sets from the respective facilities should be synchronized. To this end industrial controller can also include a synchronization component configured to maintain synchronization between the device s internal clock and a defined reference time. In one or more embodiments synchronization component can synchronize the internal clock with a master clock maintained on the cloud platform. In such embodiments synchronization component can periodically or continuously adjust the device s internal clock in accordance with a centralized clock e.g. via an atomic clock or GPS signal receiver or a network based protocol such as NTP Network Time Protocol RFC 1305 etc. or IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol PTP via a synchronization signal . Based on synchronization signal synchronization component can adjust internal clock to converge with the cloud s clock.

Turning briefly to a high level overview depicting synchronization of a device clock with a cloud clock is illustrated. As described in previous examples industrial devices and are configured to exchange data with a cloud platform e.g. over an Internet layer to make use of cloud services residing on the cloud platform . Industrial devices and can reside at different locations Location and Location . For example industrial devices and may be located at different plant facilities or at different areas within the same plant facility. In some cases industrial devices and may be located indifferent time zones. In order that data received from industrial devices and are time stamped according to a common time reference internal device clocks and are synchronized to a cloud clock maintained by the cloud platform. Time stamp components and associated with industrial devices and can then apply time stamps plus optional UTC offsets and or time zone indicators to their respective data based on the times provided by synchronized device clocks and . In this way data events at each location will be accurately time stamped using a common clock standard that accurately reflects when an event at one location occurred relative to an event at the other location. Moreover data items from both locations can be aggregated at cloud platform and arranged chronologically based on the synchronized time stamps to yield an event sequence that includes data events from both locations as will be described in more detail below. Although internal device clocks and have been synchronized with cloud clock time stamps may still be viewed locally at the industrial devices and according to their respective local time zones.

Returning now to synchronization component in conjunction with the cloud platform services can employ any suitable technique for maintaining synchronization between industrial controller and the cloud s clock. For example an IEEE 1588 Precision Time Protocol PTP can be used wherein the cloud s clock is designated as a master clock and synchronization component can adjust internal clock to converge with the cloud s clock in accordance with synchronization signal . This technique is only intended to be exemplary and it is to be appreciated that any suitable technique can be used to maintain synchronization between industrial controller and the cloud platform. Moreover reference times other than a cloud clock may be used as the master clock for maintaining synchronization between devices. For example in some embodiments an industrial device coupled to the cloud platform may be designated to act as the master for other industrial devices coupled to the cloud platform. The other industrial devices may access the current time maintained on the master industrial device via the cloud platform and adjust their respective local clocks to align the local clocks with the master clock on the master industrial device.

Although cloud interface component was described above as connecting the cloud aware smart device directly to the cloud platform some configurations may utilize a cloud proxy device that collects industrial data from multiple devices time stamps the data and sends the time stamped data to the cloud platform. Such a cloud proxy can be a dedicated data collection device such as a server that shares a network with the industrial devices. Alternatively the cloud proxy can be a peer industrial device that collects and time stamps data from other industrial devices. depicts a configuration in which an industrial device acts as a cloud proxy for other industrial devices comprising an automation system. An automation system comprises a plurality of industrial devices which collectively monitor and or control one or more controlled processes . The industrial devices respectively generate and or collect process data relating to control of the controlled process es . For industrial controllers such as PLCs or other automation controllers this can include collecting data from telemetry devices connected to the controller s I O generating data internally based on measured process values etc.

In the configuration depicted in industrial device acts as a proxy for industrial devices whereby raw data from devices is sent to the cloud via proxy industrial device . Industrial devices can deliver their raw data to proxy industrial device over plant network or backplane e.g. a Common Industrial Protocol CIP network or other suitable network protocol . Using such a configuration it is only necessary to interface one industrial device to the cloud platform via cloud interface component . Accordingly proxy industrial device can include a time stamp component for applying time stamps to the collective raw data collected from industrial devices as well as its own control data. The time stamped data can then be pushed to the cloud platform as time stamped data via cloud interface component .

Since data is being gathered from multiple industrial devices according to this configuration there is a possibility that redundant data may be provided to industrial device from more than one source. Accordingly industrial device may be configured to filter such redundant data e.g. using a filter component prior to delivering the refined data to the cloud based application. A summarization component not shown may also be configured to summarize the gathered and time stamped data according to defined summarization criteria prior to delivery to the cloud.

While the proxy device illustrated in is depicted as an industrial device that itself performs monitoring and or control of a portion of controlled process es other types of devices can also be configured to serve as a cloud proxies for multiple industrial devices according to one or more embodiments of this disclosure. For example illustrates an embodiment in which a firewall box serves as a cloud proxy for a set of industrial devices . Firewall box can act as a network infrastructure device that allows plant network to access an outside network such as the Internet while also providing firewall protection that prevents unauthorized access to the plant network from the Internet. In addition to these firewall functions the firewall box can include a cloud interface component that interfaces the firewall box with one or more cloud based services. In a similar manner to proxy industrial device of the firewall box can collect raw industrial data from industrial devices which monitor and control respective portions of controlled process es . Firewall box can also include a time stamp component which applies appropriate time stamps to the gathered raw data prior to pushing the data to the cloud based application as time stamped data . Firewall box can allow industrial devices to interact with the cloud platform without directly exposing the industrial devices to the Internet.

In one or more embodiments cloud interface component can also receive data from the cloud based application and route this data to one or more of the industrial devices . For example the cloud based service may be an enterprise resource management ERP system that analyzes production data in view of one or more defined business goals and generates production schedule information based on the analysis. Accordingly firewall box can receive the required production data from industrial devices as raw data apply time stamps to the data using time stamp component and provide the production data to the cloud based ERP system as time stamped data . In response the cloud based ERP system can analyze the time stamped production data and generate updated production schedule information designed to ensure that one or more defined business goals are met e.g. fulfill a given customer order maintain total plant energy usage below a defined peak demand etc. . The cloud based ERP system can provide this scheduling information to the firewall box via cloud interface component which can then route the scheduling information to the appropriate industrial devices . The foregoing cloud based ERP system example can also be performed through proxy industrial device or through a dedicated cloud proxy device.

Context component can append contextual information or metadata to the time stamped data. The contextual information provides context for the industrial data which can be leveraged by subsequent transformation steps or used by the cloud based application in connection with cloud side analysis. Turning briefly to an exemplary context component for adding contextual information to industrial data is illustrated. Context component receives time stamped production data and enhances the time stamped production data with one or more pieces of context data to yield contextualized data . Although the present example depicts the industrial data as being time stamped prior to associating contextual information to the data one or more embodiments may contextualize the data prior to time stamping the data that is time stamp component and context component may be exchanged in . As an exemplary item of contextual information context component can associate production shift information to the data indicating a production shift during which the data was generated. Context component may determine the production shift based on the time stamp applied to the data. The applied contextual information may also include a production area that yielded the data a particular product that was being produced when the data was generated and or a state of a machine e.g. auto semi auto abnormal etc. at the time the data was generated. Other examples of contextual information include an employee on shift at the time the data was generated a lot number with which the data is associated or an alarm that was active at the time the data was generated. Context component can also apply an actionable data tag to the industrial data if it is determined that the data requires action to be taken by plant personnel or by the cloud based application.

Context component an also apply contextual information to the time stamped production data that reflects the data s location within a hierarchical organizational model. Such an organization model can represent an industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels. An exemplary non limiting hierarchy that can be used as a basis for such an organizational model is illustrated in . In an exemplary organizational model the hierarchical levels can include from lowest to highest a workcell level a line level an area level a site level and an enterprise level . Devices that are components of a given automation system can be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices machines and data within the enterprise. In some embodiments the organizational model can be known to the context component which can associate the time stamped production data with a hierarchical identification tag that indicates the data s origin within the organizational hierarchy e.g. Company Marysville DieCastArea 1Headline LeakTestCell .

Returning to after the context component has added contextual information to the raw data filter component can determine which of the contextualized data is to be pushed to the cloud and discard data that is not required by the cloud based service. Filter component can filter the time stamped and contextualized data according to any specified filtering criterion. In some embodiments filtering criteria can be defined in a filtering profile associated with cloud proxy device . Exemplary filtering criteria can include instructions to discard certain types of data if the data falls outside a defined range. For example the filtering criteria can specify that weight data collected from a testing device of a particular workcell is to be discarded if the data exceeds a maximum weight value indicative of a faulty reading. In such scenarios the data to which this filter criterion is to be applied can be identified based on contextual information applied to the data by the context component . Filter component can also be configured to identify redundant data collected from two or more of the industrial devices and discard redundant instances of the same data. Again filter component can leverage contextual information applied by context component to identify instances of redundant data.

Filter component can also filter the time stamped and contextualized data based on the time stamps applied by time stamp component . For example the filtering profile may specify that data from selected data tags are only required at intervals of five minutes or greater e.g. if the cloud based application does not require the selected data values at highly granular time intervals . Accordingly filter component can examine the time stamps associated with the data and discard extra data values for the selected data tags falling between the five minute intervals to be sent to the cloud platform.

Cloud proxy device can also include an aggregation component configured to combine related data according to one or more predefined aggregation instructions. For example after data from industrial devices has been time stamped contextualized and filtered aggregation component can identify related data which may originate from multiple data sources and combine the related data into a common upload for delivery to a cloud based service or application. The resulting refined data can be pushed to the cloud via cloud interface component .

While the exemplary cloud proxy device of is described as including a time stamp component a context component a filter component and an aggregation component it is to be appreciated that cloud proxy device can include any suitable combination of data refinement functions according to the needs of the user and the requirements of the particular cloud based services being used. For example cloud proxy device may compress encrypt and or reformat the collected industrial data prior to pushing the data to the cloud based service.

As noted above time stamping of industrial data at the plant level or enterprise level prior to moving the data to the cloud platform can facilitate chronological aggregation and collective analysis of industrial data collected from different locations and time zones. Such collective analysis can lead to discovery of correlations and cause and effect relationships between events at different plant facilities that would be difficult to ascertain through individual analysis of disparate data sets. illustrates an exemplary cloud based data analysis system that can process time stamped industrial data from multiple locations to provide useful views of system events. Cloud based data analysis system can reside on a cloud platform and receive industrial data from respective industrial devices . In one or more embodiments data analysis system can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service and access to data analysis system can be provided to customers as a subscription service by a provider of the services associated with data analysis system .

In the present example industrial devices reside at different locations associated with respective different time zones. For example industrial devices may be devices of a global industrial enterprise in which manufacturing or business events at one location impact activities at another location. In another exemplary scenario it may be desired to compare data corresponding to events at different locations and different time zones that happen during a given timeframe. In another example it may be necessary to compare data at different facilities located in different time zone using the respective local times e.g. how does 8 00 am shift data from the east coast facility compare with the 8 00 am shift data from the west coast facility . In such scenarios the UTC time stamps associated with the data collected from the different facilities can include a time zone offset or a time zone indicator that can be used to normalize the UTC time stamps such that data corresponding to a local timeframe at a first facility can be compared with the corresponding local timeframe of the second facility.

In other exemplary scenarios some or all of industrial devices may reside at different areas within the same facility. Some industrial devices may also be embedded within mobile systems such as service vehicles or cargo trucks having built in control systems or tracking systems and thus have non fixed locations.

As in previous examples industrial devices can be any suitable industrial devices that generate or collect data in connection with monitoring or controlling respective industrial processes e.g. industrial controllers VFDs operator interface terminals meters sensors etc. . Industrial devices can also be devices associated with higher level systems such supervisory control systems batch systems business intelligence systems ERP systems etc. Industrial devices may also be machine level or site level data historians that collect and store historical production data for medium term or long term e.g. archival storage. In some configurations industrial devices can comprise cloud proxy devices such as industrial device firewall box or a stand alone dedicated proxy device that receive industrial data from multiple industrial devices and send the collected data to the cloud platform.

The respective industrial devices can include time stamp components similar to time stamp components or described above configured to apply a time stamp to respective items of industrial data prior to sending the data to data analysis system residing on the cloud platform. To ensure that time stamped data received from industrial devices conforms to a common time standard data analysis system includes a synchronization signal component that generates and sends a synchronization signal similar to synchronization signal of to industrial devices . The synchronization signal synchronizes the internal device clocks of industrial devices with a global clock maintained by data analysis system . Thus time stamps applied to data events at each location will accurately reflect a time that the event occurred relative to time stamped events at the other locations. It is to be appreciated that time stamps can still be viewed locally at each industrial device in local time zone format. However time stamps sent to data analysis system can be formatted according to a common time zone or can be provided to data analysis system using a universal time notation that is synchronized to cloud clock . Alternatively time stamps sent to data analysis system can be formatted to conform to the local time zone of the respective devices but can additionally include a UTC offset or time zone indicator that can be used by data analysis system to normalize the time stamp data between time zones as needed. It is to be appreciated that clock synchronization may be effected by means other than signal based synchronization e.g. a synchronization service that runs on the industrial devices a protocol by which the industrial devices requests the current time from a master time keepings source etc. .

In some embodiments industrial devices can send their respective time stamped industrial data to the cloud based data analysis system at a frequency defined by data analysis system . For example an administrator or other user having suitable administrative privileges can define an upload frequency individually for the respective industrial devices and device interface component can provide corresponding configuration instructions to the respective industrial devices configuring the upload frequencies accordingly. Alternatively or in addition data analysis system may dynamically select a suitable upload frequency for the respective industrial devices during operation. For example in order to control costs associated with cloud resource utilization an administrator of data analysis system can in one or more embodiments configure a maximum total bandwidth usage for the data analysis system such that the total instantaneous bandwidth usage for data traffic between the industrial devices and the cloud based data analysis system is not to exceed the configured maximum bandwidth. In such embodiments the data analysis system can monitor the total bandwidth utilization substantially in real time and dynamically reduce the upload frequency of one or more industrial devices in response to a determination that the total bandwidth usage is approaching the defined maximum bandwidth. In another example an administrator can configure a limit on the total amount of cloud storage to be used for cloud based data collection. Accordingly if data analysis system determines that this storage limit is being approached the data analysis system can send an instruction to one or more industrial devices to reduce their upload frequencies thereby slowing the consumption of cloud storage resources. In some embodiments cloud based data analysis system can select which industrial devices are to be adjusted based on respective criticalities of the control systems associated with the industrial devices . For example cloud based data analysis system can maintain individual device profiles not shown defining relative priorities of the industrial systems associated with each industrial device and can leverage this information in connection with determining which industrial devices are to be selected for reduced upload frequency in the event that one or more cloud resources are being used at an excessive rate.

Time stamped industrial data is received from industrial devices at device interface component which can store the received data on cloud storage . Cloud storage can comprise a subset of the cloud platform s storage resources provisioned to an owner of the industrial systems e.g. an industrial enterprise for the purpose of storing the received industrial data. For example cloud storage can be provided to an industrial enterprise as part of a subscription service that includes access to the cloud based data analysis system and its associated cloud services. In some embodiments the received data may be filtered by a filter component prior to being moved to cloud storage . Similar to local filter components described above e.g. filter component of filter component can be configured to remove redundant data items or data not needed by the cloud based data analysis system in accordance with any specified filtering criterion. For example filter component can be configured to discard certain data values if the values fall outside a defined range indicative of a faulty data reading. Filter component can also be configured to identify redundant data items received from two different devices. For example in some scenarios a pressure value provided by a pressure meter may be duplicated in the data table of an industrial controller and both values may be provided to the cloud platform via device interface component . In such an instance filter component can be configured to identify the duplicated data items e.g. by virtue of a common data tag name or other identification methodology and discard one of the duplicated values. If data provided by industrial devices include contextual metadata filter component can be configured to filter the data based on some aspect of this contextual metadata.

Once the time stamped and optionally filtered data has been stored on cloud storage the data can be provided to one or more client devices in any suitable viewing format for visual analysis. For example data analysis system can include a client interface component that serves predesigned interface displays to any Internet capable client device having access privileges to cloud based data analysis system and render selected subsets of the stored industrial data via the display screens using the client device s native display capabilities. To this end a set of preconfigured display screens can be stored on cloud storage associated with data analysis system and the client interface component can deliver selected display screens in response to invocation by the client devices . The display screens can be developed for example using a development environment provided by the cloud based data analysis system . In one or more embodiments the cloud based data analysis system can provide this development environment as a cloud service allowing a developer to remotely access a set of cloud side interface screen development tools to facilitate design of interface screen layouts data links graphical animations and navigation links between screens. In such embodiments the interface screen development environment can allow the developer to leverage cloud resources e.g. cloud storage and processing resources to develop a set of display screens for a given operator interface application to be run on the data analysis system . Alternatively display screens can comprise display screens developed by external display development applications and uploaded to the cloud platform for execution by data analysis system during runtime.

Each of the display screens can include display tags defining which data items in cloud storage are to be displayed on the respective screens formats for the respective data items desired graphical animations to be associated with the respective data items graphical elements to be included on the respective display screens e.g. externally defined graphical elements definitions and other such configuration information. Some display screens can also be configured to render alarm or informational messages in response to determinations that subsets of the industrial data provided by industrial devices have met certain conditions e.g. in response to a determination that a given industrial parameter has exceeded a defined setpoint or that a defined production goal has been met . Since industrial data can be received from multiple industrial systems possibly at diverse geographical locations alarms notification events animation triggers and the like can be defined in terms of composite industrial data values for multiple industrial systems allowing the industrial systems to be viewed and analyzed from a high level enterprise perspective with chronological relationships between events at different locations accurately represented by virtue of the synchronized time stamps.

For example consider a scenario in which a particular product is being produced at three different facilities. The respective industrial devices can deliver production statistics to the device interface component and the data analysis system can aggregate these production statistics substantially in near real time to yield composite data e.g. a total production count for all three facilities even though the three facilities may not be communicatively networked together over a data network. One or more of the displays screens can be configured to display these composite production statistics trigger alarms or graphical animations as a function of the composite statistics etc. Client interface component can deliver these display screens to authorized client devices having Internet access and suitable authorization credentials providing owners of the client devices with an enterprise level view of the multiple industrial systems monitored by cloud based data analysis system .

Since the time stamps applied to the stored industrial data conform to a common time standard by virtue of synchronization of the internal clocks of the respective devices data events at different locations can be aggregated into a chronological presentation in order to accurately document a sequence of events that occurred at geographically distributed locations. Turning briefly to an exemplary chronological aggregation is illustrated. A first data set comprises condenser inlet pressure data received from a first facility and a second data set comprises evaporator discharge pressure data received from a second facility. Data sets and have been time stamped by their respective industrial devices prior to being moved to cloud storage . The time stamps include a date component a UTC timestamp component and a UTC offset eight hours for Facility and five hours for Facility . Using these time stamps in particular the data and UTC components of the time stamps data sets and can be aggregated into a chronological data set that presents the geographically diverse data sets as a time series of events. This presentation can be provided by client interface component to authorized client devices for visual analysis. Such chronological presentations can bring together geographically diverse but related data events into a single presentation that can be easily viewed and analyzed by plant personnel to determine for example a root cause of a system abnormality. When data set is to be sent to a client device client interface component can determine a local time zone of the requesting client device and adjust the time stamp data associated with the respective data tag values to conform to the local time zone of the requesting client device.

The foregoing example describes chronological aggregation of data sets and as being performed on the cloud platform. However in some scenarios chronological aggregation can be performed on the plant floor or enterprise level prior to sending the aggregated data set to the cloud platform. For example a cloud proxy device such as cloud proxy devices or described above can receive data sets and from respective different industrial devices and time stamp the data sets. The cloud proxy device can then aggregate data sets and into chronological data set and send data set to the cloud platform for storage and or analysis. This aggregation can be performed for example by aggregation component described above in connection with .

One or more time stamping aspects described herein can also be used to support delivery of multimedia presentations to client devices . For example in addition to presentation of production data retrieved from industrial controllers or other devices users may wish to view a video or audio video recording of an industrial process stored on the cloud platform. Accordingly one or more of industrial devices can be a video recorder e.g. a web camera that records video or audio video images of a machine associated with the industrial process and provides the video data to the cloud platform for storage and subsequent viewing. illustrates an exemplary video recording configuration that uses synchronized time stamping to marry video footage with measured process data. In this example an industrial device measures or generates industrial data associated with an industrial process . As in previous examples industrial device includes a time stamp component configured to apply time stamps to respective data items and a cloud interface component configured to communicatively couple industrial device to cloud platform and deliver the time stamped industrial data to a cloud based data collection service . In addition a video recorder has been set up to record video footage of a particular machine associated with industrial process . Video recorder can also include a time stamp component that assigns time data e.g. a time code to the recorded video footage. For example time stamp component can assign time data to each frame of the video footage indicating a time that the image in the frame was recorded. Video recorder can also include a cloud interface component that couples video recorder to the cloud platform and sends the recorded video data in digital format to cloud platform for cloud based storage.

Using techniques described above in connection with cloud platform can send synchronization signals to industrial device and video recorder to synchronize the internal clocks associated with time stamp components and with cloud clock . Alternatively industrial device and video recorder can be synchronized to an atomic clock GPS or network based protocol served from an external Internet server. Synchronizing the internal clocks of the respective devices facilitates accurate alignment of time stamped industrial data with video data at cloud platform . That is cloud based data collection service can marry industrial data with video data by aligning the time stamps between the two types of data and provide a unified multimedia presentation to a user e.g. to client devices . For example data collection service can generate a playback display that overlays select subsets of industrial data on the digital video footage during playback of the video where the time stamps on the respective data values are used to determine the video frames on which the data will be superimposed. This can provide a composite view that allows remote maintenance personnel to visually associate production data events e.g. abnormal temperature or pressure values machine statuses alarm events etc. with visual machine performance providing a helpful troubleshooting tool for remotely tracing an origin of abnormal machine behavior.

Returning now to one or more embodiments of cloud based data analysis system can include an analytics component to facilitate collective analysis of the time stamped data stored on cloud storage . Analytics component can be configured to combine and correlate the stored data to provide accurate representative and meaningful information about system events. For example analytics component can identify inter dependencies between data sets regardless of location of origin based in part on the time stamps associated with respective data items. For example analytics component may determine based on analysis of time stamped industrial data gathered from multiple facilities that a prolonged alarm condition or system event that results in downtime of a particular production area at a first location is typically followed by a drop in inventory levels at a second location e.g. a warehouse four to five days following the event. In some embodiments analytics component can leverage such determinations to perform prognostic analysis on the stored industrial data. For example after the foregoing determination has been established analytics component can identify when the alarm condition has occurred and if the alarm condition exceeds the duration identified as triggering the downstream inventory reduction output a predictive notification that inventory levels are likely to drop at the second location within a predicted period of time. In one or more embodiments analytics component can also predict anomalous system performance e.g. alarm states downtime conditions machine failure etc. based on historical time stamped values and correlations between data sets.

To facilitate analysis of the time stamped data stored on cloud storage some embodiments of analytics component can reference a data model that models the industrial enterprise and its associated industrial and business level devices. Data model can represent the industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels e.g. the hierarchical levels depicted in where each level comprises units of the enterprise organized as instances of types and their properties. Exemplary types can include for example assets e.g. pumps extruders tanks fillers welding cells utility meters etc. structures e.g. production lines production areas plants enterprises production schedules operators etc. and processes e.g. quality audit repairs test inspection batch product parameters shifts etc. . Data model can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this enterprise hierarchy to provide context for data received from industrial devices relative to the enterprise as a whole. Thus analytics component can determine correlations between data sets in cloud storage based in part on the logical functional and hierarchical relationships between industrial devices defined by data model .

One or more embodiments of the cloud based architecture described above can also provide a cloud based mechanism for tracking product through various geographically diverse stages of an industrial enterprise including manufacturing distribution sales and end use. For example time stamped production data associated with a particular manufactured product or component thereof can be stored in cloud storage providing a record of when the product or component passed through a particular production area. The time stamped production data can be linked to the particular product or component using for example a barcoding system that marks individual items of product with a unique barcode and reads the barcode at various points throughout the manufacturing process using mounted or hand held barcode readers. The barcode provides a consistent identifier that can be used to track the item through multiple plant facilities as well as inventory and distribution facilities where the barcode can be read time stamped by the barcode reader and moved to cloud storage . As described in previous examples the time stamp components associated with the respective barcode readers can be synchronized with the cloud clock to ensure that the temporal relationships between part detection times and other recorded system events remain accurate.

Some types of industrial applications that employ distributed clocks may require highly accurate clock synchronization between the distributed device clocks. For example some motion control applications may require synchronization accuracy within the range of hundreds of nanoseconds. However cloud based motion control can be implemented if coarse interpolation of the motion profile is performed in the cloud platform while fine interpolation of the motion profile is performed in the motion devices e.g. servo drives . illustrates an exemplary cloud based motion control system based on this concept. In this example a servo drive or motion controller controls the position and speed of a motion device e.g. a motor . Motion device operates under the guidance of servo drive or motion controller which sends position and or speed control instructions to motion device via a control signal in accordance with a user defined control algorithm.

According to one or more embodiments cloud platform can host a cloud based motion planning system . The user defined control algorithm for controlling position and or velocity of motion device can execute on the motion planning system . When the motion planning system determines that the motion device must move to a new position or alter its velocity based on the motion algorithm as well as feedback indicating a current state of the motion device or its associated automation system motion planning system can interpolate a position or velocity trajectory referred to as a motion profile for transitioning the motion device from its current position velocity to the target position velocity. The motion profile can define the motion device s velocity acceleration and or position over time as the system moves from the current state to the target state. Once this motion profile is calculated the motion planning system can send the motion profile to the servo drive or motion controller which translates the motion profile into appropriate control signaling for moving motion device through the trajectory defined by the motion profile.

To allow for possible synchronization inaccuracies between the internal clock of the motion planning system and the internal clock of the servo drive or motion controller the cloud based motion control system can employ a two stage interpolation methodology for generating the motion profile whereby coarse interpolation is performed in the cloud platform and fine interpolation is performed on the plant level by the servo drive or motion controller . To this end cloud based motion planning system can include a coarse interpolation profile generator that generates a coarse interpolated motion profile . Coarse interpolated motion profile defines a coarse trajectory as a set of position or velocity values over time at a given update rate e.g. 100s of milliseconds between data points . Motion planning system can then send the coarse interpolated motion profile to servo drive or motion controller from the cloud platform. A fine interpolation component on the servo drive or motion controller can then perform fine interpolation on the coarse interpolated motion profile . For example fine interpolation component can interpolate additional position and or velocity data points between the coarse data points defined in the coarse interpolated motion profile to yield a final motion profile having a finer update rate e.g. on the level of microseconds or low milliseconds between data points . This final motion profile can then be translated by the servo drive or motion controller to generate the control signal that transitions motion device through the defined trajectory.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

