---

title: Situation-aware personal information management for a mobile device
abstract: A technique for providing a mobile device user with a “when to leave” alarm on his or her mobile device. The user has scheduled an appointment at a given time and location in the user's personal information manager (PIM) executing on the mobile device. A representative PIM is a calendar on the mobile device. The “when to leave” alarm is provided to the end user in the form of a display widget (or “countdown alarm”) that automatically activates a given time (e.g., 30 minutes) before a latest departure time for an event in the user's PIM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874363&OS=08874363&RS=08874363
owner: Proxpro, Inc.
number: 08874363
owner_city: Weston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120525
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 202 236 filed Aug. 30 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 359 which application was based on and claimed priority from Ser. No. 60 969 359 filed Aug. 31 2007.

The present invention relates generally to mobile devices and in particular to techniques for providing end users of such devices with real time situation aware data.

Mobile devices such as the Blackberry phone have become ubiquitous in today s society. In addition to providing basic wireless telephone service such devices are Internet accessible and include highly efficient processors and display functionality for rendering rich graphical information that is available to be downloaded to the device over the Internet. These devices also include personal information manager PIM functions such as appointment calendars address books and the like.

Web sites such as Google Maps provide end users with the capability of obtaining map data defining a navigation route. A recently added feature to Google Maps enables the end user to view real time traffic conditions along a desired route.

Vehicle mounted navigation devices also are well known in the prior art. These devices interact with global positioning systems GPS to provide an end user with up to date location information as an end user drives the vehicle along a given route.

The subject disclosure is a technique for providing a mobile device user with a when to leave alarm on his or her mobile device so that the user may depart for a desired destination in sufficient time to arrive for a scheduled appointment in a timely manner. In a representative embodiment a system comprises an end user mobile device that is connectable to a server hosted in or managed by a service provider. The user has scheduled an appointment at a given time and location in the user s personal information manager PIM executing on the mobile device. A representative PIM is a calendar on the mobile device or on a calendar in another device that is then synchronized to the mobile device calendar . According to one aspect of the invention a when to leave alarm is provided to the end user in the form of a display widget or countdown alarm that automatically activates a given time e.g. 30 minutes before a latest departure time for an event in the user s PIM.

In one embodiment the when to leave alarm is generated as follows. The mobile device current time and location is compared with the time and location of the end user s next appointment as defined in the PIM or the like . Using the location data a fastest route from the current location to the destination location is determined or obtained preferably taking into consideration traffic conditions. At a given time a display on the mobile device of the when to leave screen is initiated. The when to leave screen preferably includes a map of the end user s current location which changes to a route map displaying the route ahead a given time period e.g. 5 minutes before anticipated departure. The route map preferably shows the fastest route. On the mobile device a countdown alarm is displayed preferably in the form of a first color bar concatenated with a second color bar. In a preferred embodiment the travel time to the destination is shown in red and a cushion a time between a current time and a latest departure time is displayed in green. As time elapses the green portion of the bar shrinks and the red portion of the bar fluctuates according to real time and predicted traffic conditions on the route.

Preferably the countdown alarm is a display widget which includes a timeline running along a given display axis e.g. horizontally . As described above the countdown alarm is in effect a timer. A first item on the timeline represents a current time on the mobile device. Next on the timeline is the cushion portion e.g. shown as a green bar followed by a travel or commute portion e.g. shown as a red bar . The length of the cushion along the timeline is calculated according to the following algorithm given an appointment time and the current time the cushion is equal to appointment time current time commute time . The quantity within the parenthetical is sometimes referred to as the buffer. The commute time is typically provided from a server which also provides a route map for the commute. After the commute portion typically a last item on the timeline is the appointment time itself.

The commute portion of the timer typically takes into consideration various types of traffic and travel time. These traffic types include for example real time traffic historic traffic and predicted traffic. Real time traffic typically refers to a check of the traffic along a route at a given time or instant. Historic traffic refers to traffic by time of day and day of week for a given portion of the route. Predicted traffic refers to a blend of real time and historic traffic and typically refers to a prediction of how non recurring traffic will dissipate by the time the traveler arrives at a given segment of the route e.g. following an accident which by then might have cleared .

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the invention. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or by modifying the invention as will be described.

The subject disclosure enables mobile device users to perform situation aware personal information management on his or her mobile device. As used herein a mobile device user should be broadly construed. It includes any wireless client device e.g. a cellphone pager a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. with GPRS NIC a mobile computer with a smartphone client or the like. A typical mobile device is a wireless access protocol WAP enabled device e.g. an iPhone a Blackberry device or the like that is capable of sending and receiving data in a wireless manner using the wireless application protocol. The wireless application protocol WAP allows users to access information via wireless devices such as mobile phones pagers two way radios communicators and the like. WAP supports wireless networks including CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX ReFLEX iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC and Mobitex and it operates with many handheld device operating systems such as PalmOS EPOC Windows CE FLEXOS OS 9 and JavaOS. Typically WAP enabled devices use graphical displays and can access the Internet or other communication network on so called mini or micro browsers which are web browsers with small file sizes that can accommodate the reduced memory constraints of handheld devices and the low bandwidth constraints of a wireless networks. In a representative embodiment the mobile device is a cellular telephone that operates over GPRS General Packet Radio Service which is a data technology for GSM networks. In addition to a conventional voice communication a given mobile device can communicate with another such device via many different types of message transfer techniques including SMS short message service enhanced SMS EMS multi media message MMS email WAP paging or other known or later developed wireless data formats.

Wireless device operating environments in which the subject matter may be implemented also are well known. In a representative embodiment a mobile device is connectable typically via WAP to a transmission functionality that varies depending on implementation. Thus for example where the wireless device operating environment is a wide area wireless network e.g. a 2.5 G network the transmission functionality comprises one or more components such as a mobile switching center MSC an enhanced ISDN switch that is responsible for call handling of mobile subscribers a visitor location register VLR an intelligent database that stores on a temporary basis data required to handle calls set up or received by mobile devices registered with the VLR a home location register HLR an intelligent database responsible for management of each subscriber s records one or more base stations which provide radio coverage with a cell a base station controller BSC a switch that acts as a local concentrator of traffic and provides local switching to effect handover between base stations and a packet control unit PCU a device that separates data traffic coming from a mobile device . The HLR also controls certain services associated with incoming calls. Of course the subject matter herein may be implemented in other e.g. 3G and next generation mobile networks and devices as well. The mobile device is the physical equipment used by the end user typically a subscriber to the wireless network. Typically a mobile device is a 2.5 G or 3G compliant device that includes a subscriber identity module SIM which is a smart card that carries subscriber specific information mobile equipment e.g. radio and associated signal processing devices a man machine interface MMI and one or more interfaces to external devices e.g. computers PDAs and the like . The mobile device may also include a data store.

With the above as background the subject matter of the present invention is now described in more detail. According to the subject matter herein mobile device situation awareness is facilitated preferably through a managed service provider. The service provider may be the same entity that provides the end user mobile service or any other entity. In a representative embodiment the service provider operates a web site that is Internet accessible through a web browser on the mobile device or other machine such as the end user s PC . In a representative embodiment shown in a system that implements the invention includes a mobile device client a server and a third party integration layer . The integration layer may comprise part of the server if the service provider has access to the location and traffic data as will be described below . The mobile device client preferably is downloaded to and installed in the mobile device in any convenient manner. In one embodiment the end user opens his or her device browser to the service provider web site and selects a link to download and install the client. Alternatively the client may be provided as original equipment on the mobile device or otherwise pushed to and installed in the device in any convenient manner. The end user may obtain the client by responding to an SMS or other invitation. The client may be retrieved to another machine such as the end user s PC and then transferred to the mobile device over a medium such as a Bluetooth connection.

As shown in the client server and integration layers each comprise a number of functional components. This representation is meant to be for convenience of illustration and description and it should not be taken to limit the scope of the invention as one or more of the functions may be combined. Typically these components are implemented in software as a set of processor executable computer instructions associated data structures and the like . One or more of the functions may be combined or otherwise implemented in any convenient manner e.g. in hardware in firmware in combined hardware and software or the like . As noted above the mobile device includes a micro browser or other graphics rendering engine for displaying information to the end user in the usual manner. The device is Internet accessible and interacts with the server using known Internet protocols such as HTTP HTTPS and the like. The server is shown as a single device but this is not a requirement either one or more programs processes or other code may comprise the server and be executed on one or more machines in one or more networked locations .

The operation of the system is best described by the following example. As seen in the client and the server include various functional components and associated data stores to facilitate the operation. The operation of the disclosed method may be carried out using system components other than as shown in .

In this example architecture the client includes a situation aware cache and the server includes its own situation aware cache . These data stores are used to facilitate the creation and display of a countdown alarm. The server also includes a database e.g. MySQL for storing location information as well as a user profile database for storing user preference data. The integration layer provides one or more application programming interfaces APIs such as a geo coding API for providing the server with information about the destination location as well as a mapping and traffic API for providing the server with map data and real time or historic traffic data. The geo coding API provides destination location coordinates preferably by reverse geo coding addresses in the end user s PIM. The mobile device actual location is provided using GPS A GPS or other data service which obtains the device location is a known manner. The map and traffic data is provided via API from a data service provider or obtained by the application natively. Of course any convenient data services may be used or otherwise integrated into the situation aware service offering.

A user of the mobile device enters an appointment event in his or his PC or web based calendar . Typically the event data includes fields for date time activity and location. Preferably the location is a street address. Instead of manual entry a service provider or other source may be used to obtain a destination location address upon receiving a request for such information. The PC or web based calendar at some point is synchronized to a mobile PIM native calendar . Of course the appointment event data may be entered into the PIM native calendar directly. An application calendar module reads the mobile device calendar over a connection such as an industry standard JSR 75 link. In particular the calendar module preferably is automatically synchronized to the mobile PIM calendar whenever a new appointment event is added to the calendar . Of course the components and may be integrated together. The appointment event data is assimilated by a PIM data upload function which transfers the data to the server preferably via HTTP. This data is received at the server and processed by an agenda analyzer component . The agenda analyzer provides the processed data to a parse engine which is also connected to the third party integration layer preferably via XML. The geo coding API takes unstructured address information assesses its quality adds one or more geo codes and structures that data into XML. The structured and geo code data is stored in the database . Meanwhile a set of user preferences such as locations of home work daily commute times security data and current location typically the mobile device last known location data are uploaded to the server such as by a preferences specification component operating in the client . This preference data is stored in the user profile database .

As the time of an event approaches the server code compares the last known location and current time with the location and time of a next appointment. At a given time typically 30 minutes before a latest departure time as calculated below the databases and transfer to a mapping engine and countdown profiler component the following data current time and location and event time and location. The mapping engine and countdown profiler component also accesses the third party mapping and traffic APIs preferably via XML to obtain the route map and traffic data. The route map data may be obtained at any convenient time once the starting and ending locations are determined although typically it is desired to obtain the route map with the associated traffic data which of course varies based on time of day day of week and other non recurring events such as traffic accidents adverse weather and the like . As described above a route map may take into consideration various types of traffic and travel time. These traffic types include for example real time traffic historic traffic and predicted traffic. Real time traffic typically refers to a check of the traffic along a route at a given time or instant. Historic traffic refers to traffic by time of day and day of week for a given portion of the route. Predicted traffic refers to a blend of real time and historic traffic and typically refers to a prediction of how non recurring traffic will dissipate by the time the traveler arrives at a given segment of the route e.g. following an accident which by then might have cleared . The real time traffic may be weighted more heavily for the drive closer to the user s departure location while the predicted traffic may be weighted more heavily for the drive as the user nears the desired destination.

Using the current and event time and location data and taking into consideration the traffic data the mapping engine and countdown profiler component . This component generates the route map and the commute time. This information is used by the client side of the application to generate and display the countdown alarm to instruct the mobile device user when to leave if he or she intends to arrive timely at the desired appointment destination given the time of day route of travel and traffic conditions along the anticipated route. The situation aware cache manages the data and pushes the resulting map commute time and appointment time to the client where it is received by the situation aware cache . The cache on the client side then provisions a route map with the best or recommended route as well as the countdown alarm widget . As will be seen this information is then displayed to the end user preferably in a just in time manner to attempt to influence the user s departure i.e. to provide the desired situation awareness .

As also seen in preferably the data output from the client side situation aware cache also is transmitted to the in vehicle mapping system or other personal navigation device PND e.g. using Bluetooth or the like. Alternatively the server or other machine or device may push this information there directly. This enables automated destination retrieval as well as proactive re routing to avoid traffic in the event the end user makes driving errors or otherwise modifies the route on the fly.

Thus according to an embodiment of the invention the when to leave screen the countdown alarm automatically activates a given time e.g. 30 minutes before a latest departure time for an event in the user s personal information manager PIM . On the server side the service compares the mobile device current location with the time and location of the end user s next appointment works out or otherwise obtains a fastest route preferably allowing for real time and or predicted traffic and then provides information to the client side which at a given time initiates the display on the mobile device of the when to leave screen. The when to leave screen preferably includes a map of the end user s current location which changes to a route map displaying the commute ahead a given time period e.g. 5 minutes before anticipated departure. The route map preferably shows the fastest route together with a countdown alarm. The countdown alarm preferably is a graphic element such as shown in . As seen there preferably the countdown alarm is a display widget that includes a number of elements. The first element is the current time . As described above if as a result of the calculation by the mapping engine and countdown profiler component there is some cushion available between the user s necessary departure given the anticipated route and traffic real time and or predicted then this cushion is displayed in the alarm widget preferably as a green horizontal bar . The commute time also is displayed in the widget preferably as a red horizontal bar . The final part of the display widget is the appointment start time . The current time and appointment start time may include additional information. Thus for example the current time field may itself include a countdown indication and the appointment start time field may be annotated to include other data such as event attendees reminders and the like.

Thus as seen in the countdown alarm preferably is a display widget which includes a timeline running along a given display axis e.g. horizontally . As described above the countdown alarm is in effect a timer. A first item on the timeline represents a current time on the mobile device. Next on the timeline is the cushion portion e.g. shown as a green bar followed by a travel or commute portion e.g. shown as a red bar . The length of the cushion along the timeline is calculated according to the following algorithm given an appointment time and the current time the cushion is equal to appointment time current time commute time . The quantity within the parenthetical is sometimes referred to as the buffer. The commute time is typically provided from a server which also provides a route map for the commute. After the commute portion typically a last item on the timeline is the appointment time itself.

The following describes one technique for overlaying the countdown alarm on the route map. In general the route map is provisioned according to predetermined dimensions corresponding to the display area of the mobile device leaving a space for the countdown alarm. The program then calculates the dimensions of the countdown alarm and fits it into the space. In particular preferably the route map is returned from the server to the mobile device in the form of a byte stream of a .png image. Then at the mobile device this byte stream is converted back into a .bmp file. The .bmp file is fitted into a bitmap field in the display. The countdown alarm is calculated in a countdown timer display widget. In one embodiment the countdown timer display widget comprises a number of elements. As noted above the first element is the current time. If there is some cushion available then this cushion is displayed in the alarm widget preferably as a green horizontal bar. The commute time is then displayed in the widget preferably as a red horizontal bar. The final part of the display widget is the appointment start time.

Thus according to the described subject matter the situation aware application takes given data current location A and location of an appointment B current time and desired destination arrival time calculates the fastest route from A to B checks historical travel times from A to B to arrive at the appointment time indexes real time traffic conditions to calculate the traffic buffer optional and then creates the countdown alarm. The alarm is then overlaid or displayed within the route map or some portion thereof such as already shown in . While on route as shown in the application may zoom out to show both locations A and B. Preferably while on route the countdown alarm dynamically changes to show the time cushion traffic delay and historic travel duration. If the user is running late e.g. due to a traffic incident the display may be modified such as shown in . In particular and as shown in when the historical time and traffic delay is greater than a current time until the planned arrival time preferably the application alerts the user that he or she is going to be late at this time a menu item may also be provided to enable the user to make a call to the destination or send an email or SMS to notify another of the anticipated delay in the arrival.

The following describes a representative algorithm for generating the countdown timer such as shown in . This algorithm is executed in software as a set of processor enabled program instructions by the server side countdown profiler component 

Preferably the server uses a last valid location as an assumed start location. If the start location is incorrect the end user can open a menu and select a locate me option choose an alternative start location from a list or enter a new start location.

While on route to the destination as noted above the user can check the display as desired to determine if he or she will arrive on time. In particular as the mobile device begins following the desired route the server recognizes this and periodically e.g. once per minute checks the route ahead for traffic. The server updates the user s position and the green portion of the bar the cushion fluctuates according to the number of minutes the end user is then predicted to arrive early for the meeting. The end user may keep this display running right up until his or her arrival at the desired destination.

As noted above preferably the situation aware application uses the personal information manager PIM of the mobile device. The PIM is a software application that functions as a personal organizer. As an information management tool a PIM s purpose is to facilitate the recording tracking and management of certain types of personal information. If the device does not include a PIM other tools such as a calendar mail client or the like may be used to interface the appointment data to the situation aware functionality as previously described. The mobile client working from the PIM agenda and location displays the countdown timer in the manner previously described to provide situation awareness.

The situation aware application brings together data e.g. from the PIM calendar and address book to enable the end user to have an appointment location displayed on a map that also includes the mobile device s current location obtained for example from a GPS or A GPS data service . APIs to the service provide destination location coordinates preferably by reverse geo coding addresses in the PIM or by any other convenient technique. Turn by turn directions pedestrian routes or transit route APIs calculate or provide the fastest route from the current location to the destination finish location. Traffic APIs calculate or provide the historic traffic or normal time on public transport for the route and the real time traffic delays for the route. Using this data the application calculates a time cushion between a current time and the time the user must leave for the appointment to arrive on time. Preferences can also be set to provide one or more alerts in the event traffic delays or other unanticipated events occur along the intended route. With the countdown alarm the end user can tell at a glance whether he or she is going to be on time for the appointment. In this manner the application determines and displays in a unique manner a latest departure time to ensure that the end user can arrive at the desired destination given the anticipated and real time traffic. As a consequence the application enables the end user to arrive on time to know a latest departure time for optimal productivity to have peace of mind during the travel that he or she will arrive in sufficient time for the appointment and to easily carry out messaging if unforeseen circumstances occur that will delay arrival.

The countdown alarm may be a display widget that is displayed in other than a horizontal timeline. Thus for example in an alternative embodiment the alarm may be displayed vertically. In another alternative the cushion and commute times may be displayed one above the other one inside the other as in a set of circles or in some other juxtaposed relation. Regardless of display format or orientation the cushion element and the corresponding commute element will change dynamically in the manner described as the timer runs forward and approaches the latest departure time.

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the green red or green orange red coloration is not limiting as any other convenient colorations or grey scales may be used.

While the above described and illustrated countdown alarms are preferred other approaches may be used to render or augment the countdown timer. In one alternative embodiment the countdown timer comprises one or more audible signals associated with the display graphics. Thus considering the embodiment the mobile device may also be controlled by the software to issue an audible warning at the start of the cushion the left most portion of the green bar as well as an audible time to leave warning at what is the beginning of the red portion. Additional reminders may be output aurally as needed or desired to ensure that the end user departs in a timely manner. Where the display is not working or it otherwise disabled it may be desired just to issue the audible warnings.

The route map may omit the traffic conditions or perhaps one type of traffic data although this is a less preferred approach.

It may also be desirable to provide ancillary information to the countdown alarm. One type of information might be fuel consumption data during the actual or upcoming travel. In this embodiment fuel consumption data may be overlaid or otherwise displayed in juxtaposition to the route map including predicted traffic with the constraint that the optimal departure time be selected to minimize travel duration and fuel consumption.

A further variant enables the display of location of places routinely visited e.g. for instance home and work locations and the times and or days of the week when the user wishes to arrive. Thus when to leave alerts can be received for frequent trips without the necessity of updating the PIM calendar.

Another variant adds time and location based weather reports along the planned route. Generally weather reports fix the location of an individual and then provide hourly weather forecasts or other forecasts such as daily forecasts for the specific location. A more convenient and accurate representation of weather however predicts where an individual will be e.g. from PIM calendar data and their progress along a route and presents the weather forecast that is customized according to a future time and position. This is illustrated in .

Due to fluctuations in traffic conditions on a route e.g. during rush hour to a major city altering the departure time can impact the travel time and fuel consumption for the journey more traffic time corresponds to more idling of the vehicle consuming fuel without moving or consuming fuel sub optimally by moving slowly . Based on the user s configurable priorities e.g. to arrive punctually or to minimize travel time or fuel consumption another variant of the application presents alternative departure and arrival time options adjacent to times specified in the PIM calendar. This display is generated by consulting real time historic and predicted traffic for the best route. For each departure time option the speed of traffic for each segment of each route is predicted. By correlating the duration and speed of travel along each segment for each option with the fuel consumption profile of the vehicle the predicted fuel consumed can be calculated together with the carbon footprint and conveniently presented to the driver so that they can make an informed choice according to their afore mentioned priorities. illustrates the representative displays.

Another variant matches the timing start locations and finish locations of drivers from their PIM entries and matches users who have similar plans enabling users to carpool and reduce traveling costs as well as reduce congestion. This variant may be implemented as a managed or hosted service using a web site that is accessed by end users in the usual manner.

Another variant of the application allows users to select PIM entries for future events and to predict the travel time at the specific time and day of travel.

Another variant may interpret the when to leave screen as confirmation that the driver is on schedule or late for the PIM calendar event. If there is a change in traffic conditions either before departure or while on route the application can interact with turn by turn directions to allow the user to navigate around congestion.

Another variant enables users to specify their preferred refreshments e.g. branded coffee their preferred time to consume and the duration of a travel break. This information can be used to geo locate convenient vendors on the route corresponding to the users progress and a break time can be added to the countdown alarm sometimes in a new color adjusting the optimum time of departure accordingly. This is illustrated in .

As noted above preferably the client communicates to the server over an interface. There may also be an interface between the server and one or more third party daa services. One or more of these interfaces may be conveniently enabled using AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML which are a known set of web development techniques that enhance the web page s interactivity speed and usability. AJAX technologies include XHTML Extensible HTML and CSS Cascading Style Sheets for marking up and styling information the use of DOM Document Object Model accessed with client side scripting languages the use of an XMLHttpRequest object an API used by a scripting language to transfer XML and other text data asynchronously to and from a server using HTTP and use of XML or JSON Javascript Object Notation a lightweight data interchange format as a format to transfer data between the server and the client.

While the above describes a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic.

While the subject matter herein has been described in the context of a method or process the disclosure also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including an optical disk a CD ROM and a magnetic optical disk a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a magnetic or optical card or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus.

A representative mobile device is a Blackberry Curve 8800 mobile device running the client side situation aware application functionality as a J2ME application. A given implementation of the server component is a Linux based server running Apache mySQL and where the server side situation aware application functionality is implemented in Python code and or one or more Perl scripts.

More generally the service is provided by an operator using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the inventive functionality described above. In a typical implementation the service comprises a set of one or more computers. A representative machine is a network based server running commodity e.g. Pentium class hardware an operating system e.g. Linux Windows OS X or the like an application runtime environment e.g. Java .ASP and a set of applications or processes e.g. Java applets or servlets linkable libraries native code or the like depending on platform that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the service may be implemented in a standalone server or across a distributed set of machines. Typically a server connects to the publicly routable Internet a corporate intranet a private network or any combination thereof depending on the desired implementation environment.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

