---

title: Mean regression function for permeability
abstract: A method having obtaining one or more porosity data of a subsurface of the Earth using a data acquisition tool; computing one or more permeability data from the porosity data using a transformation function; computing a first quantile regression function and a second quantile regression function of the one or more permeability data; producing a combined mean regression function of the one or more permeability data by summing the first quantile regression function and the second quantile regression function, wherein the first quantile regression function is multiplied by a first coefficient and the second quantile regression function is multiplied by a second coefficient; and using the combined mean regression function to predict a mean permeability of the subsurface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482088&OS=09482088&RS=09482088
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09482088
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
Implementations of various technologies described herein generally relate to determining a mean regression function for permeability.

This section is intended to provide background information to facilitate a better understanding of various technologies described herein. As the section s title implies this is a discussion of related art. That such art is related in no way implies that it is prior art. The related art may or may not be prior art. It should therefore be understood that the statements in this section are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

Oilfield operations such as surveying drilling wireline testing completions production planning and oilfield analysis are typically performed to locate and gather valuable downhole fluids. Surveys are often performed using acquisition methodologies such as seismic scanners or surveyors to generate maps of underground formations. These formations are often analyzed to determine the presence of subterranean assets such as valuable fluids or minerals. This information is used to assess the underground formations and locate the formations containing the desired subterranean assets. This information may also be used to determine whether the formations have characteristics suitable for storing fluids. Data collected from the acquisition methodologies may be evaluated and analyzed to determine whether such valuable assets are present and if they are reasonably accessible.

One or more wellsites may be positioned along the underground formations to gather valuable fluids from the subterranean reservoirs. The wellsites are provided with tools capable of locating and removing hydrocarbons such as oil or gas from the subterranean reservoirs. Drilling tools are typically deployed from the oil and gas rigs and advanced into the earth along a path to locate reservoirs containing the valuable downhole assets. Fluid such as drilling mud or other drilling fluids is pumped down the wellbore through the drilling tool and out the drilling bit. The drilling fluid flows through the annulus between the drilling tool and the wellbore and out the surface carrying away earth loosened during drilling. The drilling fluids return the earth to the surface and seal the wall of the wellbore to prevent fluid in the surrounding earth from entering the wellbore and causing a blow out. 

During the drilling operation the drilling tool may perform downhole measurements to investigate downhole conditions. The drilling tool may be used to take core samples of the subsurface formations. In some cases as shown in the drilling tool is removed and a wireline tool is deployed into the wellbore to perform additional downhole testing such as logging or sampling. Steel casing may be run into the well to a desired depth and cemented into place along the wellbore wall. Drilling may be continued until the desired total depth is reached.

After the drilling operation is complete the well may then be prepared for production. Wellbore completions equipment is deployed into the wellbore to complete the well in preparation for the production of fluid through the wellbore. Fluid is then allowed to flow from downhole reservoirs into the wellbore and then the surface. Production facilities are positioned at surface locations to collect the hydrocarbons from the wellsite s . Fluid drawn from the subterranean reservoir s passes to the production facilities via transport mechanisms such as tubing. Various types of equipment may be positioned about the oilfield to monitor oilfield parameters to manipulate the oilfield operations and or to separate and direct fluids from the wells. Surface equipment and completion equipment may also be used to inject fluids into reservoirs either for storage or at strategic points to enhance production of the reservoir.

During the oilfield operations data is typically collected for analysis and or monitoring of the oilfield operations. Such data may include for example subterranean formation equipment historical and or other data. Data concerning the subterranean formation is collected using a variety of sources. Such formation data may be static or dynamic. Static data may relate to for example formation structure and geological stratigraphy that define geological structures of the subterranean formation. Dynamic data may relate to for example well production data. Such static and or dynamic data may be collected to learn more about the formations and the valuable assets contained therein.

Sources used to collect static data may be seismic tools such as a seismic truck that sends compression waves into the earth. Signals from these waves are processed and interpreted to characterize changes in the anisotropic and or elastic properties such as velocity and density of the geological formation at various depths. This information may be used to generate basic structural maps of the subterranean formation. Other static measurements may be gathered using downhole measurements such as core sampling and well logging techniques. Core samples are used to take physical specimens of the formation at various depths as shown in . Well logging involves deployment of a downhole tool into the wellbore to collect various downhole measurements such as density resistivity etc. at various depths. Such well logging may be performed using for example a drilling tool and or a wireline tool. Once the well is formed and completed fluid flows to the surface using production tubing and other completion equipment. As fluid passes to the surface various dynamic measurements such as fluid flow rates pressure and composition may be monitored. These parameters may be used to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation.

Sensors may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations. For example sensors in the drilling equipment may monitor drilling conditions sensors in the wellbore may monitor fluid composition sensors located along the flow path may monitor flow rates and sensors at the processing facility may monitor fluids collected. Other sensors may be provided to monitor downhole surface equipment or other conditions. Such conditions may relate to the type of equipment at the wellsite the operating setup formation parameters or other variables of the oilfield. The monitored data is often used to make decisions at various locations of the oilfield at various times. Data collected by these sensors may be further analyzed and processed. Data may be collected and used for current or future operations. When used for future operations at the same or other locations such data may sometimes be referred to as historical data. The data may be used to predict downhole conditions and make decisions concerning oilfield operations. Such decisions may involve well planning well targeting well completions operating levels production rates and other operations and or operating parameters. Often this information is used to determine when to drill new wells re complete existing wells or alter wellbore production. Oilfield conditions such as geological geophysical and reservoir engineering characteristics may have an impact on oilfield operations such as risk analysis economic valuation and mechanical considerations for the production of subsurface reservoirs. Data from one or more wellbores may be analyzed to plan or predict various outcomes at a given wellbore. In some cases the data from neighboring wellbores or wellbores with similar conditions or equipment may be used to predict how a well will perform. There are usually a large number of variables and large quantities of data to consider in analyzing oilfield operations. It is therefore often useful to model the behavior of the oilfield operation to determine a desired course of action. During the ongoing operations the operating parameters may need adjustment as oilfield conditions change and new information is received.

Various techniques described herein are directed to a method. The method obtains one or more porosity data of a subsurface of the Earth using a data acquisition tool computes one or more permeability data from the porosity data using a transformation function computes a first quantile regression function and a second quantile regression function of the one or more permeability data produces a combined mean regression function of the one or more permeability data by summing the first quantile regression function and the second quantile regression function wherein the first quantile regression function is multiplied by a first coefficient and the second quantile regression function is multiplied by a second coefficient and uses the combined mean regression function to predict a mean permeability of the subsurface.

In one implementation the method further computes a third quantile regression function of the one or more permeability data.

In another implementation the combined mean regression function further includes summing the first quantile regression function the second quantile regression function and the third quantile regression function wherein the third quantile regression function is multiplied by a third coefficient.

In one implementation in a graphical plot of the permeability data relative to the porosity data 10 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the first quantile regression function 50 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the second quantile regression function and 90 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the third quantile regression function.

In one implementation in a graphical plot of the permeability data relative to the porosity data 5 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the first quantile regression function 50 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the second quantile regression function and 95 of the one or more permeability data fall below a curve of the third quantile regression function.

In another implementation the method further includes obtaining one or more mean permeability data using the combined mean regression function and deriving a final regression function from the one or more mean permeability data.

In one implementation deriving a final regression function from the one or more mean permeability data comprises using a least squares method.

In one implementation the first quantile regression function the second quantile regression function and the third quantile regression function are each performed using a least squares method.

In one implementation the combined mean regression function represents a continuous conditional mean regression of the one or more permeability data.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the claimed invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the claimed invention.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object or step could be termed a second object or step and similarly a second object or step could be termed a first object or step without departing from the scope of the invention. The first object or step and the second object or step are both objects or steps respectively but they are not to be considered the same object or step.

The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the claimed invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

Various techniques described herein are implemented with reference to an oil field operation. As such before describing implementations of these techniques it may be useful to describe a suitable oil field operation that may benefit from the various techniques described herein.

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. Surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. Surface unit is capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. Surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produce data output which may then be stored or transmitted.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

Drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown generally referenced near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly includes capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with surface unit . The bottom hole assembly further includes drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The bottom hole assembly may include a communication subassembly that communicates with surface unit . The communication subassembly is adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electro magnetic telemetry or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include for example a transmitter that generates a signal such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed such as wired drill pipe electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.

Typically the wellbore is drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan typically sets forth equipment pressures trajectories and or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However as information is gathered the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally as drilling or other operations are performed the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

Surface unit may include transceiver to allow communications between surface unit and various portions of the oilfield or other locations. Surface unit may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at oilfield . Surface unit may then send command signals to oilfield in response to data received. Surface unit may receive commands via transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

Wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example geophones and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . Wireline tool . may also provide data to surface unit . Surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce data output that may be stored or transmitted. Wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the field operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in production tool . or associated equipment such as Christmas tree gathering network surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While illustrate tools used to measure properties of an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as gas fields mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The field configurations of are intended to provide a brief description of an example of a field usable with oilfield application frameworks. Part or all of oilfield may be on land water and or sea. Also while a single field measured at a single location is depicted oilfield applications may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

Data plots . . are examples of static data plots that may be generated by data acquisition tools . . respectively however it should be understood that data plots . . may also be data plots that are updated in real time. These measurements may be analyzed to better define the properties of the formation s and or determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. The plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Static data plot . is a seismic two way response over a period of time. Static plot . is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The core sample may be used to provide data such as a graph of the density porosity permeability or some other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity may be performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. Static data plot . is a logging trace that typically provides a resistivity or other measurement of the formation at various depths.

A production decline curve or graph . is a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. The production decline curve typically provides the production rate as a function of time. As the fluid flows through the wellbore measurements are taken of fluid properties such as flow rates pressures composition etc.

Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information and or other measurement data and other parameters of interest. As described below the static and dynamic measurements may be analyzed and used to generate models of the subterranean formation to determine characteristics thereof. Similar measurements may also be used to measure changes in formation aspects over time.

The subterranean structure has a plurality of geological formations . .. As shown this structure has several formations or layers including a shale layer . a carbonate layer . a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault extends through the shale layer . and the carbonate layer .. The static data acquisition tools are adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it will be appreciated that oilfield may contain a variety of geological structures and or formations sometimes having extreme complexity. In some locations typically below the water line fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and or its geological features. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations in oilfield it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more locations across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be processed and or evaluated. Typically seismic data displayed in static data plot . from data acquisition tool . is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. The core data shown in static plot . and or log data from well log . are typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. The production data from graph . is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. The data analyzed by the geologist geophysicist and the reservoir engineer may be analyzed using modeling techniques.

Each wellsite has equipment that forms wellbore into the earth. The wellbores extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to processing facility .

In one implementation porosity data may be obtained by direct or indirect measurements. Direct methods may include laboratory measurements of porosity data on core samples. Methods for such measurements include gravimetric methods volumetric methods and methods using a porosimeter. Indirect methods may include determinations of porosity data from well log data. The well logs used may include density sonic neutron and nuclear magnetic response NMR logs.

In one implementation permeability data may be estimated from the obtained porosity data using mathematical correlations. One mathematical correlation using a logarithmic transformation function may be defined as log Equation 1 where k is the permeability is the porosity and C1 and C2 are constants that are determined by regression analysis on permeability and porosity data pairs. Non logarithmic transformation functions may be used in other implementations of the mathematical correlations.

Using the estimated permeability data derived from Equation 1 a regression method may be used to produce a conditional mean permeability regression for use in predicting a mean permeability with respect to porosity. Any number of regression methods may be used including a linear regression technique and a least squares regression technique.

However using a regression method on data derived from a transformation function such as the logarithmic transformation function of Equation 1 may lead to biasing. For example the conditional mean permeability regression may underestimate permeability when compared to actual measured permeability data. Prior to forming the conditional mean permeability regression the estimated permeability data may be plotted on a logarithmic scale due to the logarithmic transformation in Equation 1. The regression method such as the least squares regression technique may then produce a fit of the estimated permeability data where the fit would need to be transformed back to an arithmetic scale via an exponential. As a result of this transformation inaccuracies may result. This transformed fit leads to the conditional mean permeability regression and may predict a mean permeability that is lower based on porosity than a mean based on measured permeability data.

In another implementation as described in 10 6 609 617 SPE 102093 PA 2007 by Delfiner P. the mean permeability may be predicted using quantiles. In this implementation based on the estimated permeability data derived from Equation 1 data points at specified quantiles are computed for a set of estimated permeability data existing within specified slices of porosity. For example for the estimated permeability data existing within a slice of 0 porosity units pu to 5 pu a data point may be computed at a 10 quantile X a 50 quantile X and a 90 quantile X where the data point computed at Xis greater than 10 of the estimated permeability data within the slice the data point computed at Xis greater than 50 of the estimated permeability data within the slice and the data point computed at Xis greater than 90 of the estimated permeability data within the slice. In a further implementation a mean permeability data point for each slice may be found using the formula mean data point for slice 0.3 0.4 0.3 Equation 2 A regression method may then be used over these mean permeability data points to produce a conditional mean permeability regression for use in predicting mean permeability.

In another implementation the mean permeability data point for each slice may instead be computed using the formula mean data point for slice 0.185 0.63 0.185 Equation 3 where Xis greater than 5 of the estimated permeability data within the slice and Xis greater than 95 of the estimated permeability data within the slice. Producing a Combined Mean Regression Function

At step the computer application may compute permeability data from porosity data using a transformation function. In one implementation the porosity data is obtained using a data acquisition tool as described with respect to and . In another implementation the permeability data is the estimated permeability data derived using Equation 1 where the transformation function is logarithmic.

At step the computer application may compute quantile regression functions of the permeability data. In one implementation as shown in quantile regression functions Q Q and Qare computed and plotted for all estimated permeability data such that 10 of the estimated permeability data will be under the Qcurve 50 of the estimated permeability data will be under the Qcurve and 90 of the estimated permeability data will be under the Qcurve. In an implementation the quantile regression functions may be developed using any number of regression techniques including a linear regression technique a least squares regression technique a multi linear regression technique and a nonlinear regression technique.

At step the computer application may produce a combined mean regression function by summing the quantile regression functions. In one implementation the combined mean regression function may be modeled after Equation 2 where combined mean regression 0.3 0.4 0.3. Equation 4 illustrates a combined mean regression function modeled after Swanson s rule. In another implementation the combined mean regression function may be modeled after Equation 3 where combined mean regression 0.185 0.63 0.185 Equation 5 such that 5 of the estimated permeability data will be under the Qcurve and 95 of the estimated permeability data will be under the Qcurve. In one implementation the combined mean regression function may be used to produce mean permeability data.

At step the computer application may derive a final regression function. In one implementation the final regression function is derived using the mean permeability data produced from the combined mean regression function. The final regression function may be developed using any number of regression techniques including a linear regression technique a least squares regression technique a multi linear regression technique and a nonlinear regression technique.

In one implementation the combined mean regression function represents a continuous conditional mean regression of estimated permeability data. In another implementation the combined mean regression may produce the results of a multi linear regression to fit estimated permeability data derived from a bulk density a deep resistivity neutron porosity and a core porosity curve.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs program data and a database system . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. In one implementation the computer application described with reference to in the paragraphs above may be stored as application programs .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may each include application programs similar to that as described above.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

