---

title: Implicit social graph connections
abstract: A method includes: determining a first user interaction on a social network system; identifying a social network object in the social network system associated with the first user interaction by traversing a social graph of the social network system; identifying a user account based on the first user interaction; generating an implicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network object; and selecting a content entry for displaying to a user device signed-in under the user account or a friend account based on the implicit social graph connection, the friend account socially connected to the user account via the social graph of the social network system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497234&OS=09497234&RS=09497234
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09497234
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121227
---
This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to inferring social graph connections from a social networking system.

Social networking systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to interact within their social networks. A social networking system user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. A variety of relationships can be tracked within a social networking system including connections amongst the users and social objects within the social networking system such as between a user to another user between a user to a social object and between a social object to another social object. A social object may be for example one or more of a social networking system user a non person entity a content item a group a social networking system page an event a message a subject such as persons places things abstract ideas or concepts a multimedia or any combination thereof.

Social networking system information that is tracked and maintained by a social networking system may be stored as a social graph which includes a plurality of nodes that are interconnected by a plurality of edges. A social graph node may represent a social networking system object that can act on and or be acted upon by another node. Each of these interactions can be stored as an edge of the social graph. In some embodiments the edges can be represented as bi directional. In other embodiments the edges can be represented as directional. For example a user node checking into a social network page for a place can be represented by either a bi directional edge between the user node and the social network page or a directional edge from the user node to the social network page. The social graph can thus be stored as a database of edges between nodes. In some embodiments the social graph can be stored separately for user interactions of a specific kind. In other embodiments the social networking system stores the social graph without discriminating the type of user interactions.

An edge between nodes in a social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. Examples of such actions by a social networking system user include listing social networking system objects in a user profile subscribing to or joining a social networking system group or fan page sending a message to another social networking system user making a purchase associated with a social networking system node commenting on a content item or reserving RSVP to an event.

One category of an edge in the social network is a page connection. The page connection is a connection between a user account and a social networking system page. The social networking system page is a portal for an entity to interact with the social networking system users. The social networking system page can represent an entity a brand an individual a business a group an organization or any combination of. The page connection can be used in advertisement news feed data collection and a variety of other tasks.

The page connections made with traditional systems often represent an explicit approval for the connection from a social networking system user to the social networking system page. For example a page connection is made when a social networking system user clicks on a like button of the social networking system page. This type of connection making may limit the richness of information connectivity with the social networking system.

Embodiments of the invention generate and utilize implicit social graph connections in a social networking system communications. In one embodiment an implicit social graph connection is determined from a social graph of a social networking system. The implicit social graph connection can be leveraged from one or more recorded user interactions. The user interactions can be received from a client device connected to the social networking system through a user account.

Although it has been illustrated as examples in the figures and the detailed description that the implicit social graph connection is between a user account and a social network page it is understood that the techniques disclosed herein apply to an implicit social graph connection between any social graph object to any other social graph object.

For example from the user interaction a connection generation module can identify a user account and a social network object such as a social network page related to that user interaction. An implicit social graph connection can be added to the social graph based on the user account and the social network object identified. The implicit social graph connection can be generated in response to the determining of the user interaction or in a parallel batch process by surveying the social graph. The connection generation module can also calculate an edge weight for the implicit social graph connection where the edge weight determines a quantitative likelihood that the user may later choose to make an explicit connection with the social network object. Numerous examples of how the implicit social graph connection is identified by the user interaction are described below.

Further in one embodiment the social networking system includes a connection utilization module. The connection utilization module can utilize the implicit social graph connection to select specific content items to present to the client. The connection utilization module can select advertisement objects news feed stories widgets personalization content or any combination thereof based on the implicit social graph connection as well as the edge weight of the implicit social graph connection.

The social networking system may improve accuracy of personalization of content based on the disclosed mechanisms. For example advertisements shown to the user account or friend accounts of the user account can be better personalized based on interactions related to certain social network objects. A friend account is another user account that is associated to the user account where the association is established by mutual explicit confirmation. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are discovered to improve upon personalization technology of social networking systems and improve reach of businesses having a social network object.

Some embodiments have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Social networking systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to interact with objects and other users both within and external to the context of the social networking system. A social networking system user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. The social networking system may utilize a web based interface comprising a series of inter connected pages displaying and allowing users to interact with social networking system objects and information. For example a social networking system may display a page for each social networking system user comprising objects and information entered by or related to the social networking system user e.g. the user s profile . Social networking systems may also contain pages containing pictures or videos dedicated to concepts dedicated to users with similar interests groups or containing communications or social networking system activity to from or by other users. Social networking system pages may contain links to other social networking system pages and may include additional capabilities such as search real time communication content item uploading purchasing advertising and any other web based technology or ability. It should be noted that a social networking system interface may be accessible from a web browser or a non web browser application such as a dedicated social networking system mobile device or computer application. Accordingly page as used herein may be a web page an application interface or display a widget displayed over a web page or application a box or other graphical interface an overlay window on another page whether within or outside the context of a social networking system or a web page external to the social networking system with a social networking system plug in or integration capabilities.

As discussed above a social graph includes a set of nodes representing social networking system objects also known as social objects interconnected by edges representing interactions activity or relatedness . A social networking system object may be a social networking system user nonperson entity content item group social networking system page location application subject concept or other social networking system object such as a movie a band or a book. Content items include anything that a social networking system user or other object may create upload edit or interact with such as messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages comment messages messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique an HTTP link HTML files images videos audio clips documents document edits calendar entries or events and other computer related files. Subjects and concepts in the context of a social graph comprise nodes that represent any person place thing or abstract idea.

A social networking system may allow a user to enter and display information related to the user s interests education and work experience contact information and other biographical information in the user s profile page. Each school employer interest for example music books movies television shows games political views philosophy religion groups or fan pages geographical location network or any other information contained in a profile page may be represented by a node in the social graph. A social networking system may allow a user to upload or create pictures videos documents songs or other content items and may allow a user to create and schedule events. Content items and events may be represented by nodes in the social graph.

A social networking system may provide a variety of means to interact with nonperson objects within the social networking system. For example a user may form or join groups or become a fan of a fan page within the social networking system. In addition a user may create download view upload link to tag edit or play a social networking system object. A user may interact with social networking system objects outside of the context of the social networking system. For example an article on a news web site might have a like button that users can click. In each of these instances the interaction between the user and the object may be represented by an edge in the social graph connecting the node of the user to the node of the object. A user may use location detection functionality such as a GPS receiver on a mobile device to check in to a particular location and an edge may connect the user s node with the location s node in the social graph.

Social networking systems allow users to associate themselves and establish connections with other users of the social networking system. When two users explicitly establish a connection in the social networking system they become friends or connections within the context of the social networking system. Being friends in a social networking system may allow users access to more information about each other than would otherwise be available to unconnected users. For instance being friends may allow a user to view another user s profile to see another user s friends or to view pictures of another user. Likewise becoming friends within a social networking system may allow a user greater access to communicate with another user such as by email internal and external to the social networking system instant message text message phone or any other communicative interface. Being friends may allow a user access to view comment on download endorse or otherwise interact with another user s uploaded content items. Establishing connections accessing user information communicating and interacting within the context of the social networking system may be represented by an edge between the nodes representing two social networking system users.

In addition to explicitly establishing a connection in the social networking system users with common characteristics may be considered connected such as a soft or implicit connection for the purposes of determining social context for use in determining the topic of communications. In one embodiment users who belong to a common network are considered connected. For example users who attend a common school work for a common company or belong to a common social networking system group may be considered connected. In one embodiment users with common biographical characteristics are considered connected. For example the geographic region users were born in or live in the age of users the gender of users and the relationship status of users may be used to determine whether users are connected. In one embodiment users with common interests are considered connected. For example users movie preferences music preferences political views religious views or any other interest may be used to determine whether users are connected. In one embodiment users who have taken a common action within the social networking system are considered connected. For example users who endorse or recommend a common object who comment on a common content item or who RSVP to a common event may be considered connected. A social networking system may utilize a social graph to determine users who are connected with a particular user in order to determine or evaluate the social context of the communications of the particular user as will be described below in greater detail.

A social networking system may provide a variety of communication channels to users. For example a social networking system may allow a user to email instant message or text SMS message one or more other users may allow a user to post a message to the user s wall or profile or another user s wall or profile may allow a user to post a message to a group or a fan page or may allow a user to comment on an image wall post or other content item created or uploaded by the user or another user. In one embodiment a user posts a status message to the user s profile indicating a current event state of mind thought feeling activity or any other present time relevant communication. A social networking system may allow users to communicate both within and external to the social networking system. For example a first user may send a second user a message within the social networking system an email through the social networking system an email external to but originating from the social networking system an instant message within the social networking system and an instant message external to but originating from the social networking system. Further a first user may comment on the profile page of a second user or may comment on objects associated with a second user such as content items uploaded by the second user.

An explicit social graph connection explicit connection is defined as an intentional user interaction recorded for the purpose of making known on a social networking system that an association exists between an initiator and a target where the initiator is interested in further information about the target. The initiator and the target are social graph nodes. For example a friend request from a John Doe to a Jane Smith is an explicit connection.

An explicit page connection is defined as an intentional user interaction recorded for the purpose of instructing the social networking system that an association exists between a user account and a target page and that the user of the user account is interested in more information about the target page. For an explicit page connection the initiator is a user account. The target in the case of an explicit page connection is a social networking system page. For example a user John Doe liking a page for his favorite band Morning Band is an explicit page connection. For example a user account commenting on a target page may be a direct and intentional interaction. The interaction does not establish an explicit page connection because the user account has not demonstrated that in explicit terms that the user account is interested in more information about the target page.

An implicit social graph connection implicit connection is defined as any connection established by the social networking system for and between a user account and a target page that is not an explicit connection. Likewise an implicit page connection is defined as any connection established by the social networking system for and between a user account and a target page that is not an explicit page connection. This disclosure describes methods and system mechanisms for generating and identifying these implicit social graph connections including implicit page connections.

Referring now to therein is shown an illustration of a social networking system with a mechanism to generate implicit social graph connections. The social networking system can be a social networking system as described in the overview. The social networking system can include a connection system that operates within the social networking system to generate an implicit social graph connection such as an implicit page connection.

The social networking system can provided the connection system with a user interaction . The user interaction can be received from a client device and recorded on the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a social graph . The social graph can be the social graph as described in the overview containing connections between different node entities such as user accounts social network pages interest groups and other entities.

The connection system retrieves the user interaction and traverses through the social graph to identify any potential new implicit social graph connections. The connection system can identify a user account associated with the user interaction such as a user account . The user account can be the user account that initiated the user interaction . The user account can also be directly involved in the user interaction . For example if the user interaction is a message post the user account can be an owner of a message wall where the message post is deposited. The user account can also be indirectly involved in the user interaction wherein the user account is directly associated with another entity that is directly involved in the user interaction .

The connection system can also identify a social network object associated with the user interaction such as a social network page. The social network object can be the social network page involved in the user interaction . The social network object may be identified also when a reference a link or a content of the social network object is involved in the user interaction . For example if a promotion a coupon a message a multimedia shared post or a gift from the social network object is involved in the user interaction the social network object can be identified by the connection system . The social network object may be identified when a reference a link or a content of the social network object is indirectly involved in the user interaction . For example if the user interaction involves the user account tagging a friend account in the photo and the friend account has already referenced a link to the social network object on the photo then the social network object may be identified by the connection system as indirectly involved in the user interaction .

Once the connection system has identified the user account and the social network object the connection system can generate the implicit social graph connection . The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit social graph connection as previously defined between a social network page and a user account such as the social network object and the user account in the social graph . The implicit social graph connection can be stored in a standalone database or can be stored back to the social graph of the social networking system .

The connection system can calculate an edge weight associated with the implicit social graph connection . The edge weight is an indication of how likely the user of the user account would confirm an explicit social graph connection with the social network object . The edge weight can be based on the type of the user interaction . The edge weight can also be based on whether the user account initiated the user interaction whether the user account is directly involved in the user interaction or whether the user account is indirectly involved in the user interaction . The edge weight can be based on the whether the social network object is directly or indirectly involved in the user interaction . The edge weight can also be adjusted based on subsequent additional instances of the user interaction . In some embodiments a first interaction associated with the user account and the social network object can generate an instance of the implicit social graph connection and subsequent interactions of the same type associated with the same user account and the same social network object can then adjust the edge weight of the implicit social graph connection . In other words the frequency of instances of the user interaction may impact the edge weight .

Referring now to therein is shown a high level block diagram of a system environment suitable for a social networking system according to one embodiment.

The system environment shown in includes the social networking system a client device A and a network channel . The system environment can include other client devices as well such as a client device B and a client device C. In other embodiments the system environment may include different and or additional components than those shown by . The social networking system can be the social networking system of .

The social networking system further described below comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users and or objects. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected. As further described below in conjunction with users of the social networking system may be individuals or entities such as businesses organizations universities manufacturers. The social networking system allows its users to interact with each other as well as with other objects maintained by the social networking system . In some embodiments the social networking system allows users to interact with third party websites and a financial account provider.

Based on stored data about users objects and connections between users and or objects the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. This social graph can be the social graph of . Each node in the social graph represents an object or user that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system adds and or modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

The client device A is a computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network channel . In one embodiment the client device A is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment the client device A may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone a tablet a smart phone or similar device. In yet another embodiment the client device A can be a virtualized desktop running on a cloud computing service. The client device A is configured to communicate with the social networking system and or the financial account provider via the network channel . In one embodiment the client device A executes an application allowing a user of the client device A to interact with the social networking system . For example the client device A executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device A and the social networking system via the network channel . In another embodiment a the client device A interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device A such as MS or ANDROID .

The client device A is configured to communicate via the network channel which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network channel uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network channel may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network channel may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network channel may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The social networking system shown by includes a profile store a content store an action logger an action log an edge store a financial account store a connection system a web server a message server and an API request server . In other embodiments the social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system architecture.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in the profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the edge store .

As further described below a user profile may be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user may specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in the user profile that limit information from a financial account that the social networking system is permitted to access. For example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing the social networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amounts transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by the social networking system . In one embodiment information from the financial account is stored in the profile store . In other embodiments it may be stored in the financial account store .

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system.

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in the profile store . An entity is a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors may be associated with pages in the content store allowing social networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via the social networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing the social networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from the profile store the action log or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store may also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example the action logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in the social networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows the action logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in the content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

In accordance with various embodiments the action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions to track them. This information may be subject to privacy settings associated with the user. Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in a database or other data repository such as the action log . Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user being tagged in photos with another user liking an entity etc.

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external website that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

Further user actions that happened in particular context such as when the user was shown or was seen accessing particular content on the social networking system are captured along with the particular context and logged. For example a particular user could be shown not shown information regarding candidate users every time the particular user accessed the social networking system for a fixed period of time. Any actions taken by the user during this period of time are logged along with the context information i.e. candidate users were provided not provided to the particular user and are recorded in the action log . In addition a number of actions described below in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of the social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by the action logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow the action log to record further information about additional types of user actions.

In one embodiment the edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. The edge store can store the social graph described above such as the social graph of . Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions of the same type between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the profile store or the profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the social networking system via a network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may communicate with the message server that provides the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and client devices. The messages processed by the message server can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or any other suitable messaging technique. In some embodiments a message sent by a user to another can be viewed by other users of the social networking system for example by the connections of the user receiving the message. An example of a type of message that can be viewed by other users of the social networking system besides the recipient of the message is a wall post. In some embodiments a user can send a private message to another user that can only be retrieved by the other user.

The API request server allows external systems to access information from the social networking system by calling APIs. The information provided by the social network may include user profile information or the connection information of users as determined by their individual privacy settings. For example a system interested in predicting the probability of users forming a connection within a social networking system may send an API request to the social networking system via a network. The API request is received at the social networking system by the API request server . The API request server processes the request by determining the appropriate response which is then communicated back to the requesting system via a network.

The social networking system also includes the connection system . The connection system can be the connection system of . The connection system can access the stores and modules of the social networking system in order to determine new implicit social graph connections. The connection system can receive user interactions from the client device A for determining potential new implicit social graph connections. As implicit social graph connections are generated and stored the connection system can also work with other modules and stores of the social networking system to utilize the implicit social graph connections to select contents to display to the client device A.

Referring now to therein is shown a control flow of a social networking system operating a connection system . The connection system can be the connection system of or the connection system of . The connection system is for determining an implicit social graph connection from at least a social graph such as the social graph of . The implicit social graph connection can in turn be stored back into the social graph such as in an edge store or a connection store . For example the connection system can determine an implicit social graph connection from the social graph represented by the edge store . The edge store can be the edge store of . The connection system can also access user interactions from an action log user profiles from a profile store and social network contents from a content store such as the action log of the profile store of and the content store of .

The connection system can be implemented by a computer system with at least one processor and one non transitory memory. The connection system can also be on the same computer system as the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The connection system can be implemented by a computer system of .

The connection system can include one or more methods of determining the implicit social graph connection from a user interaction and or a social graph of the social networking system such as the social networking system of . The one or more methods can be implemented by components storages and modules described below. The modules can be implemented as hardware components software modules or any combination thereof. For example the modules described can be software modules implemented as instructions on a non transitory memory capable of being executed by a processor or a controller on a machine described in .

Each of the modules can operate individually and independently of other modules. Some or all of the modules can be combined as one module. A single module can also be divided into sub modules each performing separate method step or method steps of the single module. The modules can share access to a memory space. One module can access data accessed by or transformed by another module. The modules can be considered coupled to one another if they share a physical connection or a virtual connection directly or indirectly allowing data accessed or modified from one module to be accessed in another module.

The storages or stores described below are hardware components or portions of hardware components for storing digital data. Each of the storage can be a single physical entity or distributed through multiple physical devices. Each of the storage can be on separate physical device or share the same physical device or devices. Each of the stores can allocate specific storage spaces for run time applications.

The connection system can include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The connection system includes two main modules a connection generation module and a connection utilization module . The connection generation module is for generating an implicit social graph connection. The connection utilization module is for selecting one or more content entries for presenting to a user account based on the implicit social graph connection.

The connection generation module includes an explicit connection generation module . The explicit connection generation module is for generating and storing an explicit social graph connection. The explicit connection generation module can access a user interaction that indicates an explicit social graph connection. For example the explicit connection generation module can identify a like or a subscribe action from the action log . The like or the subscribe action indicates directly and explicitly that a user account such as the user account of is interested in receiving further information from a social network page such as the social network object of . The explicit connection generation module can generate the explicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network page. The explicit connection generation module can then store the generated social graph connection in the edge store or the connection store .

The connection generation module includes an implicit connection generation module . The implicit connection generation module is for generating and storing an implicit social graph connection. The implicit connection generation module can access a user interaction from the action log that indicates an implicit social graph connection. The implicit connection generation module can generate the implicit social graph connection by identifying a user account from the user interaction and identifying a social network page from the user interaction. Identifying the user account can include identifying the user account that initiated the user interaction. Identifying the user account can also include identifying the user account involved in the user interaction either directly or indirectly as described in . Identifying the user account can include identifying that the user account shares one or more attributes that are the same as a different user account where the different user account is involved in the user interaction. For example the user account can be at the same location and at the same time as other user accounts that have made explicit social graph connections with the social network page. For another example the user account can be part of an event where most other user accounts in the event have checked in to the social network page.

Identifying the social network page can include identifying the social network page by identifying a link a reference or a content of the social network page involved in the user interaction. This involvement again can be a direct involvement or an indirect involvement as described in .

The implicit connection generation module can be based on a laundry list of user interaction types. The laundry list of user interaction types can be used to compare to the incoming user interactions to determine whether an implicit social graph connection should be generated.

The connection generation module includes a weight calculation module . The weight calculation module is for determining an edge weight of the social graph connection generated by the implicit connection generation module or the explicit connection generation module . For example the social graph connection can be between a user account and a social network page. The edge weight can be the edge weight of . The edge weight can represent a prediction of a quantitative likelihood that the user may later choose to make an explicit connection with the social network page. An explicit connection always has the highest likelihood value as represented by the edge weight. The weight calculation module can determine the edge weight based on a number of factors adjusting the edge weights to be proportional to the strength of the implicit social graph connection.

For example the weight calculation module can determine the edge weight based on a first location record of the user account and a second location record of the social network page. The weight calculation module can give more weight to the generated implicit social graph connection as the user account residence or current location is closer to the physical location of an entity behind the social network page.

For another example the weight calculation module can be an iterative process. The weight calculation module can first determine the edge weight of a newly generated implicit social graph connection. As new user interactions are received by the weight calculation module the weight calculation module can adjust the edge weight based on the new user interactions. For example a user interaction e.g. a check in action associated with a page in the social network by the user can generate an implicit social graph connection with an edge weight. A subsequent interaction e.g. another check in action associated with the same page by the user can increase the weight of the edge between the user account and the social network page. The edge weight in turn can be based on a history of user interactions associated with the user account and the social network page. This enables capturing of the frequency of user interactions with the social network page either directly or indirectly. This adjustment of the edge weight can occur for the same type of interaction. In some embodiments this adjustment of the edge weight can occur for different types of interactions that are related to the same user account and the same social network object. The frequency of user interaction has been found to be proportional to the likelihood a user may establish an explicit connection later. Hence the edge weight can be adjusted based on additional interactions e.g. increasing the edge weight proportionally for each additional interaction.

For yet another example the weight calculation module can determine the edge weight based on an account profile of the user account. The account profile can be retrieved from the profile store . In yet another example the weight calculation module can determine the edge weight based on a page profile of the social network page. The page profile can be retrieved from the profile store . The page profile can include a business entity type. For example the page profile of the social network page can include that the social network page is a museum or is a restaurant. When the entity type is a museum as compared to a restaurant the edge weight may be higher given the same frequency of user interactions between the user account and the social network page. This allows the system to recognize strong associations for business entity types that do not frequently expose themselves to user interaction.

In a further example the weight calculation module can determine the edge weight based on an edge weight model. The edge weight model can be a function of the user interactions responsible for generating the implicit social graph connection. The edge weight model can be a function of a frequency of user interactions between the user account of the implicit social graph connection and the social network page of the implicit social graph connection. For a specific example the edge weight model may be that if the user account gets tagged at or checks in at the social network page once in a month the edge weight is 1. The edge weight model may be that if the user account checks in twice to the social network page in the month the edge weight is 5. When the user account checks in three times in the month the edge weight can be 20. The edge weight model can be a non linear function of frequency of user interaction.

The edge weight model can be generated or trained based on explicit social graph connections in the social graph. The edge weight model can be specific to a page type and a user account type in the social graph. When a particular type of user interaction of the social graph yields more explicit connections the edge weight model will recognize that the particular type of user interaction and the social graph layout as corresponding to a high edge weight value.

In one embodiment the edge weight model can be based on various other types of user interactions. A specific edge weight function can be assigned to each of the user interaction types. The specific edge weight function can be based on user profile attributes page profile attributes frequency of the user interactions or any combination thereof.

Once the social graph connection is generated by the implicit connection generation module or the explicit connection generation module the social graph connection can be stored back into the edge store or the connection store . The edge weight of each of the social graph connections can also be stored in the edge store or the connection store .

The connection generation module can include a node expansion module . The node expansion module is for generating new implicit social graph connections by collapsing a chain of associations in a social graph between a user account node and a social network page node into a direct connection between the user account and the social network page. For example if a user account is associated with a friend account and the friend account is explicitly subscribed to the social network page then the node expansion module can generate an implicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network page.

The connection generation module can include a social plug in module . The social plug in module is for receiving user interactions from a social plug in instead of the action log . The social plug in is a tool that another website can use to provide people with personalized and social experience. When an external user account of the another website interact with the social plug in the external user account share the external user experiences off of the social networking system with user accounts on the social networking system . The social plug in can include a user interface for interacting with contents within the social networking system . For example the social plug in module can receive and provide the user interaction of for the connection generation module . In a specific example an external user account can be logged into Spotify and the external user account may be listening to a lot of songs from David Bowie. In that specific example the social plug in module can provide the user interaction of listening to songs from the social network page for David Bowie to the connection generation module .

The connection utilization module includes a feed selection module . The feed selection module is for presenting news feed stories to a user of the social networking system based on the social graph. The newsfeed is made up of one or more news stories and each story contains one or more items of media content. The feed selection module can select one or more generated stories for the news feed based at least in part on the edge weights of implicit social graph connections.

In one embodiment the feed selection module can use the implicit social graph connections to select news feed stories. In other embodiments the implicit social graph connections can be used to select other media contents for presentation to the user as well. For example the implicit social graph connections can be used to select social network page suggestions mobile notifications friend account suggestions or purchase suggestions in the same manner as how the news feed stories are selected.

The feed selection module can present a news feed story regarding a social network page when an implicit social graph connection exists between the user account and the social network page. The feed selection module can also present the news feed story regarding the social network page when an implicit social graph connection exists between a friend account of the user account and the social network page.

In one embodiment when selecting the news feed based on the edge weight lower value edge weight corresponds to higher quality content entries selected for the news feed. Quality of the content entries can be determined by the social networking system . For example quality can be based on the number of interactions with the content entries from other user accounts in the social networking system . Sponsored contents can also be considered of a higher quality. For high value edge weight more content entries of the social network page are eligible to show up on a user s news feed story.

The feed selection module can select one or more content entries of the social network page connected by the implicit social graph connection for presentation to the user account when the content entries are sponsored content. The feed selection module can select one or more content entries of the social network page for presentation to the user account when the social network page is established by a sponsor client.

The connection utilization module includes an advertisement selection module . The advertisement selection module is for presenting targeted advertisement to the user account based on the explicit and implicit social graph connections of the user account. The advertisement selection module can select one or more advertisement objects of the social network page for presentation to the user account when the social network page is established by a sponsor client. The advertisement selection module can select one or more advertisement objects for displaying to a user device signed in under the user account based on the edge weights of implicit social graph connections.

The advertisement selection module can present an advertisement object regarding a social network page when an implicit social graph connection exists between the user account and the social network page. The advertisement selection module can also present the advertisement object regarding the social network page when an implicit social graph connection exists between a friend account of the user account and the social network page.

In one embodiment when selecting the advertisement objects based on the edge weight lower value edge weight corresponds to higher quality advertisement objects selected. Quality of the advertisement object can be determined by the social networking system . For example quality can be based on the number of interactions with the advertisement object from user accounts in the social networking system . Quality can also be proportional to amount of sponsorship paid to the social networking system . For high value edge weight more advertisement objects of the social network page are eligible to be presented to the user account.

The connection utilization module includes a personalization module . The personalization module is for determining a layout of a user portal of a user account of the social networking system based on social graph connections. The personalization module can determine the layout by sorting content entries to present or display to the user account. Each of the content entry may have been selected based on a social graph connection the social graph connection having an edge weight as determined by the weight calculation module . The sorting of content entries can be based on the edge weight of the social graph connection of each of the content entries. The highest strength associations can be sorted to be displayed to the user account first such as a content entry based on an explicit social graph connection. Weaker strength associations can be sorted to be displayed later such as a content entry based on a weak implicit social graph connection.

The connection utilization module can include an explanation module . The explanation module is for generating an origination explanation for the content entry selected for displaying. The origination explanation is an indication that the user interaction is what triggered the selecting of the content entry. For example if the user interaction is the user account sharing a coupon of the social network page then when the content entry is selected for the news feed the content entry is accompanied by the origination explanation that the content entry is selected based the sharing of the coupon of the social network page.

The connection utilization module can include a confirmation module . The confirmation module is for generating a confirmation request to the user account based on the implicit social graph connection generated. The confirmation request is for converting the implicit social graph connection to an explicit social graph connection by providing the user account an opportunity to actively subscribe to the social network page. When a content entry is selected for displaying by the connection utilization module the confirmation request can accompany the content entry whenever and wherever it is displayed. The confirmation request can accompany the origination explanation in the display of the content entries selected by the connection utilization module . For example the confirmation request can be a user interface to request a user to like a social network page when the connection generation module has generated an implicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network page.

The connection utilization module includes a privacy control module . The privacy control module is for providing user control over privacy use of the implicit social graph connections. For example a user account can choose not to display any personalized content entry selected based on an implicit social graph connection. Users can mark selected content entries as spam or as content the user is not interested. The user may also configure the user account such that no or limited amount of implicit social graph connections are generated based on user interactions of that user account.

The connection utilization module can include a social signal module . The social signal module is for presenting social graph connections of a user account to a friend account of the user account. For example the social signal module can present an advertisement of the social network page to the friend account. The social signal module can indicate that the advertisement is being displayed because there exists an explicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network page. The social signal module can also indicate that the advertisement is being displayed because the social network page is socially relevant from an implicit social graph connection. The social signal module can present social distribution information regarding the social network page in advertisements and contents presented without explicit attribution to the user account that is implicitly associated with the social network page.

The page utilization module can send the selected content entries from its modules to a web server for presentation to the client devices of the social networking system . The web server can be the web server of . The client devices can be the client device A of .

The techniques introduced in the modules above can be implemented by programmable circuitry programmed or configured by software and or firmware or they can be implemented by entirely by special purpose hardwired circuitry or in a combination of such forms. Such special purpose circuitry if any can be in the form of for example one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc.

Referring now to therein are shown examples of a social graph illustrating derivation of an implicit social graph connection through a direct interaction process based on a direct interaction that is not an explicit indication of interest in the social object page. illustrates the social graph prior to generating the implicit social graph connection. The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit page connection. The social graph includes a user account connected to a social network page via a trigger action . The trigger action is defined as a triggering user interaction that signifies a potential existence of an implicit social graph connection.

For example the trigger action can be a communication action to the social network page or a reference action to the social network page . The communication action is a user interaction based on a user communication to other social objects of a social networking system. As specific examples the trigger action can be sending of a message to the social network page commenting on a wall of the social network page or answering a poll on the social network page . The reference action is a user interaction where the user references another entity in the social networking system. As specific examples the trigger action can be mentioning the social network page in a post checking in to the social network page adding a geo tag referencing the social network page or sharing the social network page on a user wall.

Referring now to therein are shown examples of a social graph illustrating derivation of an implicit social graph connection through a proactive reach process based on an interaction with a content item of the social object. illustrates an initial state of the social graph . The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit page connection. The social graph includes a user account . The social graph also includes a social network page . The social network page is linked to a page item via a content association . The page item is a content a widget or an interactive multimedia of the social network page . The content association indicates that the page item is specific to the social network page . For example the page item can be a promotion a poll a survey question an event a coupon a content post or any combination thereof.

Referring now to therein are shown examples of a social graph illustrating derivation of an implicit social graph connection through a passive connection process based on an interaction by another account linking the user account to the social object. illustrates an initial state of the social graph . The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit page connection. The social graph includes a user account . The social graph also includes a social network page . The social network page is linked to an associate account via an interaction . The associate account is an entity account within a social networking system with an existing explicit association with the user account . For example the associate account can be a friend account of the user account or a social network group of which the user account is a member. The interaction is an interaction with the social network page . For example the interaction can be a reference action or a communication action as described above in . For example the interaction can be the associate account checking in to the social network page the associate account tagging or mentioning the social network page in a photograph or the associate account posting a comment on the social network page .

Referring now to therein are shown examples of a social graph illustrating derivation of an implicit social graph connection through a bridging interaction process. The bridging interaction process can be based on a bridging interaction that clarifies that an implicit page connection may already exist. illustrates an initial state of the social graph . The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit page connection. The social graph includes a user account . The user account can be connected to an associate account by an interaction A . Alternatively or in addition to the user account can be connected to the associate account by an interaction B . For example the associate account can be a friend account of the user account or a social network group of which the user account is a member.

The interaction A is a user interaction from the user account to the associate account . The interaction B is a user interaction from the associate account to the user account . The interaction A and the interaction B each can be a reference action such as tagging or mentioning.

The social graph also includes a social network page . The social network page is linked to a page item via a content association . The page item is a content a widget or an interactive multimedia of the social network page . The content association indicates that the page item is specific to the social network page . For example the page item can be the page item of and the content association can be the content association of .

Referring now to therein are shown examples of a social graph illustrating derivation of an implicit social graph connection through an account attribute process. The account attribute process can be based on shared account attributes where at least one of the accounts already has a social graph connection with the intended social object. illustrates an initial state of the social graph . The implicit social graph connection can be an implicit page connection.

The social graph includes a first user account . The first user account has a first account profile . The first account profile includes a profile attribute . The social graph includes also a second user account . The second user account includes a second account profile . The second account profile includes the same profile attribute as well. The second user account can be an associate account of the first user account such as a friend account or a group of which the first user account is a member. The second user account can also be a user account in the same region of residence as the first user account . The second user account can also be any other user account in the social networking system. The second user account is linked to a social network page by a user interaction . The user interaction can be a communication action a reference action or an explicit social graph connection. For example the user interaction can be a post to a wall of the social network page sharing of the social network page a subscription to the social network page or an explicit like of the social network page .

Referring now to therein is shown is a flow chart of a method of operating a social networking system such as the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The method includes a method step of determining a first user interaction on a social network system. The first user interaction can be the user interaction of . The social network system can be the social networking system of or the social networking system of . The method also includes a method step of identifying a social network object in the social network system associated with the first user interaction by traversing a social graph of the social network system. The method step can be performed by a module of the social network system such as the connection generation module of . The method further includes a method step of identifying a user account based on the first user interaction. The method step can also be performed by a module of the social network system such as the connection generation module of .

Upon identifying the user account and the social network object the method includes a method step of generating an implicit social graph connection between the user account and the social network object. Once generated the implicit social graph connection can be stored in the social graph of the social network system. The method step can be performed by a module of the social network system such as the connection generation module of . The social network system can utilize the added implicit social graph connection via a connection utilization module such as the connection utilization module of . The method includes a method step of selecting a content entry for displaying to a user device signed in under the user account or a friend account based on the implicit social graph connection. The friend account is defined as a socially connected account to the user account where the social connection is defined within the social graph of the social network system.

Referring now to therein is shown a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules discussed herein may be executed.

In the example of the computer system includes a processor memory non volatile memory and an interface device. Various common components e.g. cache memory are omitted for illustrative simplicity. The computer system is intended to illustrate a hardware device on which any of the components depicted in the example of and any other components described in this specification can be implemented. The computer system can be of any applicable known or convenient type. The components of the computer system can be coupled together via a bus or through some other known or convenient device.

This disclosure contemplates the computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

The processor may be for example a conventional microprocessor such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor or Motorola power PC microprocessor. One of skill in the relevant art will recognize that the terms machine readable storage medium or computer readable storage medium include any type of device that is accessible by the processor.

The memory is coupled to the processor by for example a bus. The memory can include by way of example but not limitation random access memory RAM such as dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM . The memory can be local remote or distributed.

The bus also couples the processor to the non volatile memory and drive unit. The non volatile memory is often a magnetic floppy or hard disk a magnetic optical disk an optical disk a read only memory ROM such as a CD ROM EPROM or EEPROM a magnetic or optical card or another form of storage for large amounts of data. Some of this data is often written by a direct memory access process into memory during execution of software in the computer . The non volatile storage can be local remote or distributed. The non volatile memory is optional because systems can be created with all applicable data available in memory. A typical computer system will usually include at least a processor memory and a device e.g. a bus coupling the memory to the processor.

Software is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or the drive unit. Indeed for large programs it may not even be possible to store the entire program in the memory. Nevertheless it should be understood that for software to run if necessary it is moved to a computer readable location appropriate for processing and for illustrative purposes that location is referred to as the memory in this paper. Even when software is moved to the memory for execution the processor will typically make use of hardware registers to store values associated with the software and local cache that ideally serves to speed up execution. As used herein a software program is assumed to be stored at any known or convenient location from non volatile storage to hardware registers when the software program is referred to as implemented in a computer readable medium. A processor is considered to be configured to execute a program when at least one value associated with the program is stored in a register readable by the processor.

The bus also couples the processor to the network interface device. The interface can include one or more of a modem or network interface. It will be appreciated that a modem or network interface can be considered to be part of the computer system . The interface can include an analog modem ISDN modem cable modem token ring interface satellite transmission interface e.g. direct PC or other interfaces for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The interface can include one or more input and or output devices. The I O devices can include by way of example but not limitation a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device disk drives printers a scanner and other input and or output devices including a display device. The display device can include by way of example but not limitation a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or some other applicable known or convenient display device. For simplicity it is assumed that controllers of any devices not depicted in the example of reside in the interface.

In operation the computer system can be controlled by operating system software that includes a file management system such as a disk operating system. One example of operating system software with associated file management system software is the family of operating systems known as Windows from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Washington and their associated file management systems. Another example of operating system software with its associated file management system software is the Linux operating system and its associated file management system. The file management system is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or drive unit and causes the processor to execute the various acts required by the operating system to input and output data and to store data in the memory including storing files on the non volatile memory and or drive unit.

Some portions of the detailed description may be presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or generating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within registers and memories of the computer system into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the methods of some embodiments. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the techniques are not described with reference to any particular programming language and various embodiments may thus be implemented using a variety of programming languages.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

In some circumstances operation of a memory device such as a change in state from a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa for example may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. With particular types of memory devices such a physical transformation may comprise a physical transformation of an article to a different state or thing. For example but without limitation for some types of memory devices a change in state may involve an accumulation and storage of charge or a release of stored charge. Likewise in other memory devices a change of state may comprise a physical change or transformation in magnetic orientation or a physical change or transformation in molecular structure such as from crystalline to amorphous or vice versa. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all examples in which a change in state for a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa in a memory device may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. Rather the foregoing is intended as illustrative examples.

A storage medium typically may be non transitory or comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include a device that is tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change its physical state. Thus for example non transitory refers to a device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof when applying to modules of a system means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or any combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be embodied in other forms and manners not shown below. It is understood that the use of relational terms if any such as first second top and bottom and the like are used solely for distinguishing one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any such actual relationship or order between such entities or actions.

While processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided substituted combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed above or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using capitalization italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same element can be described in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

The language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

