---

title: Code storage using volatile memory
abstract: A method and system for code storage using volatile memory are disclosed. In a first aspect, the method comprises providing a system on a chip (SOC) that includes at least one volatile memory. The method includes coupling a portable power source to the SOC, wherein the portable power source powers the at least one volatile memory with minimal leakage. The method includes storing updatable code on the at least one volatile memory. In a second aspect, the system comprises a system on a chip (SOC) and at least a Static Random-Access Memory (SRAM) coupled to the SOC with updatable code stored therein. The system includes a portable power source coupled to the SOC, wherein the portable power source powers the SRAM with minimal leakage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898369&OS=08898369&RS=08898369
owner: Vital Connect, Inc.
number: 08898369
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120118
---
The present invention relates to code storage and more particularly to code storage using volatile memory.

Code can be stored on a variety of different types of memory. Conventional methods mandate that the code including firmware code be stored on a system using non volatile memory such as Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or flash memory. ROM is a low cost code storage option but is inflexible and time consuming as silicon re spinning is required every time changes to the ROM code are desired. As a result updating firmware code that has been stored on ROM is not possible.

Additionally code can be stored on a system that has incorporated flash memory either by an embedded flash process a stacked flash process or an external flash setup. However although utilizing flash memory is a flexible code storage option it adds significant costs to the system.

These issues limit the storage and updating of code. Therefore there is a strong need for a cost effective solution that overcomes the above issues by storing code on a type of memory that also allows for efficient updating. The present invention addresses such a need.

A method and system for code storage using volatile memory are disclosed. In a first aspect the method comprises providing a system on a chip SOC that includes at least one volatile memory. The method includes coupling a portable power source to the SOC wherein the portable power source powers the at least one volatile memory with minimal leakage. The method includes storing updatable code on the at least one volatile memory.

In a second aspect the system comprises a system on a chip SOC and at least a Static Random Access Memory SRAM coupled to the SOC with updatable code stored therein. The system includes a portable power source coupled to the SOC wherein the portable power source powers the SRAM with minimal leakage.

The present invention relates to code storage and more particularly to code storage using volatile memory. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment and the generic principles and features described herein will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

A method and system in accordance with the present invention allows for updatable code to be stored on volatile memory. By implementing into a device a portable power source coupled to a system on a chip SOC that includes volatile memory such as Static Random Access Memory SRAM and programming updatable code into the SRAM an efficient and cost effective code storage system is achieved that can support the updating of programmable code while the device is in use. One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that a variety of devices may be utilized by the code storage system including wireless sensor devices and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

To describe the features of the present invention in more detail refer now to the following description in conjunction with the accompanying Figures.

In one embodiment a printed circuit board PCB is provided that includes a system on a chip SOC . One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the PCB can be flexible or rigid and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The SOC includes at least a Static Random Access Memory SRAM and a Read Only Memory ROM . A portable power source including but not limited to a solar cell or a battery is installed on the PCB and connected to the SOC prior to a manufacturing in circuit test ICT process.

Initial updatable code including but not limited to firmware is programmed into the SRAM and initial stable code is manufactured into the ROM during a silicon fabrication process and prior to the PCB assembly. The PCB is manufactured into a wireless sensor device. An ultra low leakage silicon process is utilized to ensure minimum portable power source drain and leakage during the shell life of the wireless sensor device.

The SOC includes a Read Only Memory ROM and a Random Access Memory RAM . One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the ROM can be a variety of non volatile memory devices including but not limited to EEPROM and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the RAM can be a variety of volatile memory devices including but not limited to Static Random Access Memory SRAM and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The ROM stores stable code . One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the stable code can be a variety of different types of stable code including but not limited to boot loader function and application programming interface API code and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The RAM stores updatable code that may be updated before during or after production of the wireless sensor device . One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the updatable code can be a variety of different types of updatable code including but not limited to firmware operating system interaction and product feature code and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment the SRAM stores the updatable code for up to a predetermined time period. One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the predetermined time period can include but is not limited to a shelf life or a lifetime of the wireless sensor device and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Storing the updatable code on the SRAM for the shelf life or the lifetime of the wireless sensor device requires that the portable power source power the SOC and particularly the SRAM for the entire shelf life or lifetime of the wireless sensor device . As a result in one embodiment the portable power source is irreplaceable to ensure the updatable code is not lost.

In one embodiment step includes providing in circuit test ICT contact points on the wireless sensor device that expose an interface that includes a plurality of electrical contacts to a tester for programming the updatable code into the SRAM through the plurality of electrical contacts during a manufacturing ICT process. Prior to the manufacturing ICT process and the programming of the updatable code into the SRAM the portable power source is installed and coupled to the SOC of the wireless sensor device .

One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the interface can be represented by a variety of devices including but not limited to a serial peripheral interface SPI and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the plurality of electrical contacts can be represented by a variety of devices including but not limited to a plurality of pogo pins and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the updatable code can be updated in a variety of ways including but not limited to a remote wireless or a direct wired updating while the wireless sensor device is in use or an updating while the wireless sensor device is connected directly to a server or updating device and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that the portable power source can power the SRAM with minimal leakage using a variety of mechanisms including but not limited to isolating power of the SRAM from power of the SOC reducing a voltage level of the SRAM while maintaining a logic state of the SRAM and utilizing an ultra low leakage silicon process for the manufacture of the wireless sensor device to ensure minimal portable power source drain and that would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

As above described the method and system allow for code storage using volatile memory in a wireless sensor device that is self powered or energy harvesting capable. Volatile memory including but not limited to SRAM is continuously powered by a portable power source for the shell life of the wireless sensor device. Updatable code is then programmed and stored in the volatile memory during a manufacturing process. In addition stable code that does not need to be updated is stored in ROM. The combination of both ROM and SRAM enables the wireless sensor device to achieve both a low cost and a flexible code storage system that can be utilized to update the code while the wireless sensor device is in use.

A method and system for code storage using volatile memory has been disclosed. Embodiments described herein can take the form of an entirely hardware implementation an entirely software implementation or an implementation containing both hardware and software elements. Embodiments may be implemented in software which includes but is not limited to application software firmware resident software microcode etc.

The steps described herein may be implemented using any suitable controller or processor and software application which may be stored on any suitable storage location or computer readable medium. The software application provides instructions that enable the processor to cause the receiver to perform the functions described herein.

Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code or program instructions for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include DVD compact disk read only memory CD ROM and compact disk read write CD R W .

Although the present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that there could be variations to the embodiments and those variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

