---

title: Systems and methods for direct communication between magnetic tunnel junctions
abstract: Systems and methods that enable direct communications between magnetic tunnel junctions are provided. In one embodiment, a device includes multiple input magnetic tunnel junctions and an output magnetic tunnel junction. The multiple input magnetic tunnel junctions are connected in parallel, and the output magnetic tunnel junction is connected in series to the input magnetic tunnel junctions. In another embodiment, a device includes a first magnetic tunnel junction, a second magnetic tunnel junction, and a nano-magnetic channel. Each of the first and the second magnetic tunnel junctions has a free layer, a nonmagnetic layer, and a fixed layer. The nano-magnetic channel connects the free layer of the first magnetic tunnel junction to the free layer of the second magnetic tunnel junction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08634233&OS=08634233&RS=08634233
owner: Regents of the University of Minnesota
number: 08634233
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
The present application is based on and claims the priority of provisional application Ser. No. 61 487 761 filed on May 19 2011 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under ECCS 0702264 and DMR 0819885 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A magnetic tunnel junction MTJ includes two magnetic layers separated by a nonmagnetic layer. The electrical resistance across the MTJ depends on the relative magnetic orientations of the two magnetic layers. When the relative magnetic orientation of the two layers is parallel the MTJ has a low resistance. When the relative magnetic orientation of the two layers is antiparallel the MTJ has a high resistance. One of the magnetic layers is generally fixed by antiferromagnetically coupling it with a pinning layer. Consequently the fixed magnetic layer has a high coercivity and does not change orientation under normal operation. However the other layer with a lower coercivity may change orientation. The orientation of the magnetic free layer can be controlled by using an external magnetic field or by using spin torque transfer STT switching.

MTJs have been used to create memory devices and logic devices. However the devices have included intermediate circuitry to read data from and write data to the MTJs. For example in some devices additional CMOS components have been used to read the resistance states of MTJs at each stage of circuitry and then to convert the resistance states into voltages or currents. This intermediate circuitry can add integration complexity power consumption area and delay overheads and hence should be minimized to gain full advantage of MTJ technology.

An aspect of the disclosure relates to systems and methods that enable direct communications between magnetic tunnel junctions. In one embodiment a device includes multiple input magnetic tunnel junctions and an output magnetic tunnel junction. The multiple input magnetic tunnel junctions are connected in parallel and the output magnetic tunnel junction is connected in series to the input magnetic tunnel junctions.

In another embodiment a device includes a first magnetic tunnel junction a second magnetic tunnel junction and a nano magnetic channel. Each of the first and the second magnetic tunnel junctions has a free layer a nonmagnetic layer and a fixed layer. The nano magnetic channel connects the free layer of the first magnetic tunnel junction to the free layer of the second magnetic tunnel junction.

These and various other features and advantages that characterize the claimed embodiments will become apparent upon reading the following detailed description and upon reviewing the associated drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include systems and methods for direct communication between magnetic tunnel junctions MTJs . In a first embodiment two or three MTJs are connected in parallel and the output of the two or three MTJs is directly connected in series to another MTJ. In a second embodiment MTJs are directly connected utilizing a nano magnetic channel. Accordingly embodiments enable MTJs to communicate directly without the need for intermediate circuitry such as sensing amplifiers. This may help reduce integration complexity power consumption area and delay overheads in MTJ devices. Embodiments may also provide other benefits such as but not limited to providing non volatile memory combining logic and memory functions in one circuit and simplifying fabrication. These and various other features and advantages are described in greater detail below.

MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer and a free layer . When the relative magnetic orientation of layers and is parallel MTJ has a low resistance. When the relative magnetic orientation of layers and is antiparallel MTJ has a high resistance. In certain embodiments MTJ corresponds to a logic state 0 when the resistance is low and corresponds to a logic state 1 when the resistance is high. Furthermore the magnetic orientation of free layer can be controlled by using an external magnetic field or by using spin torque transfer STT switching. For example CMOS components could be added to device to individually set the logic states of the MTJs using STT switching.

Similar to MTJ MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer and a free layer and MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer and a free layer . Also the magnetic orientations of free layers and can be set using external magnetic fields or STT switching and MTJs and can correspond to either a logic state 0 or logic state 1 depending upon the resistance. Additionally the other MTJs described in this disclosure can be assumed to behave in the same or similar manner as MTJs and .

When a bias voltage is applied across device e.g. by utilizing electrodes and an electric current is generated that flows through MTJ . The electric current I can be calculated utilizing equation 1 below.

Where Vis the bias voltage across electrodes and Ris the resistance of MTJ Ris the resistance of MTJ and Ris the resistance of MTJ .

In an embodiment MTJ is associated with one or more threshold current values. For example if electric current is larger than or equal to the threshold current MTJ will either be maintained at or be switched to a high resistance e.g. logic state 1 . If a reverse current is applied that is larger than or equal to the threshold current MTJ will either be maintained at or be switch to a low resistance e.g. logic state 0 .

As can be seen in rows and of the AND function is illustratively performed by presetting the state of MTJ to a high resistance logic state 1 and applying a bias voltage of 2.1 volts. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the AND function. When either one or both of the input MTJs and has a low resistance logic state 0 shown in columns and the electric current e.g. current in that flows through the output MTJ exceeds the threshold current such that the output MTJ is switched from a high resistance logic state 1 to a low resistance logic state 0. However when both of the input MTJs and have a high resistance logic state 1 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ does not exceed the threshold current and the output MTJ stays at its preset high resistance logic state 1.

The OR function is illustratively performed by presetting the state of MTJ to a high resistance logic state 1 and applying a bias voltage of 1.8 volts. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the OR function. When either one or both of the input MTJs and has a high resistance logic state 1 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ does not exceed the threshold current and the output MTJ stays at its preset high resistance logic state 1. However when both of the input MTJs and have a low resistance logic state 0 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ exceeds the threshold current such that the output MTJ is switched from a high resistance logic state 1 to a low resistance logic state 0.

The NAND function is illustratively performed by presetting the state of MTJ to a low resistance logic state 0 and applying a bias voltage of 2.1 volts. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the NAND function. When either one or both the input MTJs and has a low resistance logic state 0 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ exceeds the threshold current such that the output MTJ is switched from the low resistance logic state 0 to a high resistance logic state 1. However when both of the input MTJs and have high resistances logic state 1 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ does not exceed the threshold current and the output MTJ stays at its preset low resistance logic state 0.

The NOR function is illustratively performed by presetting the state of the MTJ to a low resistance logic state 0 and applying a bias voltage of 1.8 volts. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the NOR function. When either one or both of the input MTJs and has a high resistance logic state 1 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ does not exceed the threshold current and the output MTJ stays at its preset low resistance logic state 0. However when both of the input MTJs and have low resistances logic state 0 the current that flows through output MTJ exceeds the threshold current such that the output MTJ is switched from the low resistance logic state 0 to a high resistance logic state 1.

At block an initial current flows through the MTJs. The initial current can be calculated utilizing equation 1 above with R R and Rbeing the initial resistance values of MTJs and respectively. At block it is determined whether the initial current is greater than the threshold current needed to switch the magnetic orientation of the free layer of the output MTJ. If the initial current is not greater than the threshold current then at block the resistance logic state of the output MTJ is not switched. If the initial current is greater than the threshold current then at block the resistance logic state of the output MTJ is switched. Finally at block if the output MTJ has switched the overall resistance of the device and the currents reach their final values which are different than the initial values. In certain embodiments there may be a time delay associated with the resistances and currents reaching their final values. These delays can be modified for example by changing properties of the MTJs or the bias voltage e.g. a higher bias voltage may reduce the delay time .

In light of the above it can be seen that the MTJ device in can be used to perform AND OR NAND and NOR functions. The particular function to be performed can be selected by using an appropriate bias voltage and presetting the output MTJ to either a low resistance logic state 0 or a high resistance logic state 1. It is worth highlighting that no intermediate circuitry e.g. CMOS is needed to communicate between the input MTJs e.g. MTJs and in and the output MTJ e.g. MTJ in . Instead the MTJs communicate directly with each other. Additionally it is also worth highlighting that device can be viewed as a combined logic and memory device. The input MTJs can be considered memory devices that store data in a non volatile way while the output MTJs can be considered logic devices that compute logic functions for the data. Therefore device allows for the incorporation of memory and logic in one device. With such combined devices overheads and complexity of communication between processor and memory may be reduced leading to faster processing with lower power consumption.

Where Vis the bias voltage across electrodes and Ris the resistance of MTJ Ris the resistance of MTJ Ris the resistance of MTJ and Ris the resistance of MTJ . In an embodiment MTJ is associated with one or more threshold current values such that the magnetic orientation of the free layer of MTJ can be controlled utilizing electric current to perform STT switching. Additionally the wiring of device is not limited to the specific embodiment shown in the figure. For example device can be wired such that electric current enters the output MTJ from either its fixed layer side or from its free layer side.

Device illustratively has many of the same features and or benefits as device in . For example device is able to store data in its input MTJs and then perform a logic function on the data utilizing its output MTJ. Device may also provide other benefits. For instance in addition to being able to perform AND OR NAND and NOR logic functions device is also able to perform the majority function. Furthermore instead of only being able to store data in two input MTJs device is able to store data in three input MTJs. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the two and three input devices shown in . Embodiments illustratively include any number of input MTJs and are able to perform functions on all of the input MTJs to produce a value that is stored to an output MTJ.

As can be seen in the majority function is illustratively performed by presetting the state of MTJ to a high resistance logic state 1 and applying a bias voltage of 1.3 volts. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the majority function. When two or three of the input MTJs and have low resistances logic state 0 the electric current e.g. current in that flows though the output MTJ exceeds the threshold current such that the output MTJ is switched from a high resistance logic state 1 to a low resistance logic state 0. However when two or three of the input MTJs and have high resistances logic state 1 the electric current that flows through the output MTJ does not exceed the threshold current and the output MTJ stays at its preset high resistance logic state 1. Accordingly device can be used to perform the majority function.

The AND OR NAND and NOR functions can be performed using a three input device similar to how the functions are performed using the two input device described above. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the AND function. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the OR function. Column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the NAND function and column shows the resulting state of the output MTJ when performing the NOR function.

The ability of the three input device to perform the majority function may be advantageous in certain circumstances. The majority function is a universal logic gate that can be utilized to realize any other logic function. The majority function is under developed in CMOS based logic since it cannot be efficiently realized. However for MTJ it is a natural function that can be realized as demonstrated above. The addition of the majority function to the other primitive Boolean operations offers the potential for fewer gates to be used for functions such as XOR and full adders thus reducing the footprint and improving performance of complex circuitry.

Another characteristic of the two and three input devices that should be considered is the voltage swing at the output. The two input device may show a larger change of resistance between input resistance states since fewer MTJs are connected in parallel. This allows the two input device to have a larger voltage swing between input states. For example for one particular MTJ fabrication a voltage swing of 250 300 mV was observed for the closest input states for a two input device while a voltage swing of 50 200 mV was observed for the closest input states for a three input device. However it is worth noting that although a larger voltage swing may be desirable the voltage swings associated with both the two and three input devices are still large enough to realize all of the Boolean primitives.

During operation a current passes through MTJ a current passes through MTJ and a current passes through MTJ . The three branch currents combine to form a total output current that is a sum of currents and . In an embodiment a CMOS current mirror is utilized to generate a mirror current based on current . In the particular example shown in the figure the current mirror is used to output mirror current to three output MTJs and . Again embodiments are not however limited to any particular number of output MTJs and current mirrors can be used to fan out to any number of output MTJs.

As has been discussed above some MTJ circuits have required CMOS to read the resistance states of MTJs at each stage of circuitry and then convert the resistance states into voltages or currents that are passed to the next logic gate. These intermediate read and conversion steps may limit fan out function add integration complexity power consumption area and delay overheads to logic modules. At least certain embodiments of the present disclosure do not need intermediary circuitry to read the resistance states of the MTJs at each stage. Accordingly it may be more feasible to fan out to multiple outputs as is shown in .

Device includes a MTJ having a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer and a free layer . A first electrode is electrically connected to fixed layer and a second electrode is electrically connected to free layer . The first electrode includes three input terminals and that combine at electrical branch . Each input terminal and is configured to receive a current as in input. Similarly the second electrode includes three input terminals and that combine at electrical branch and that each input terminal is configured to receive a current as an input.

Columns and show the input currents to terminals and respectively. In an embodiment a positive current I corresponds to logic state 1 and a negative current I corresponds to logic state 0. For example the first row of values in table i.e. row illustrates a situation in which a positive current of I is applied to each of the terminals and . This situation corresponds to each of the input terminals having a logic state of 1.

Column shows the net current flowing through the MTJ. In an embodiment for the OR and AND functions the terminals and are grounded. Accordingly the net current flowing through the MTJ is the sum of the currents at terminals and . For example for the first row where each of the three input terminals has an input of I the net current through the MTJ is 3I.

Column shows the output resistance of the MTJ. A high resistance illustratively corresponds to logic state 1 and a low resistance illustratively corresponds to logic state 0. In an embodiment the threshold current for switching the resistance of the MTJ is less than the current I that is utilized as the input current. Accordingly when the net current is I or 3I the resistance of the MTJ will either be maintained at or switched to the high resistance state. When the net current is I or 3I the resistance of the MTJ will either be maintained at or switched to the low resistance state.

In an embodiment the input to terminal i.e. column acts as a control signal that determines whether the device performs the OR function or the AND function. When terminal has an input of I logic state 1 the device performs the OR function and when terminal has an input of I logic state 0 the device performs the AND function. The OR and AND functions are illustratively performed on the inputs to terminals and i.e. the states in columns and and the result of the function is output as a resistance of the MTJ i.e. the states in column . For example in the first four rows the OR function is applied to the inputs in columns and to generate the outputs in column . In the last four rows the AND function is applied to the inputs in columns and to generate the outputs in column .

As previously mentioned device in can also be used to perform the majority NOR and NAND functions. The majority function can illustratively be performed by utilizing all three of the terminals of one of the electrodes as inputs and grounding the three terminals of the other electrode. For example in if the states in the three columns and are utilized as inputs then the output in column corresponds to performing the majority function on the three inputs. Accordingly device can be used to perform the majority function. The NOR and NAND functions can be realized by utilizing terminals and as inputs that receive currents and grounding terminals and .

MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer a free layer a first three terminal electrode and a second three terminal electrode . Similarly MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer a free layer a first three terminal electrode and a second three terminal electrode . In an embodiment fixed layers and have the same magnetic orientation as each other and both layers have in plane magnetic anisotropy. However some embodiments may have perpendicular magnetic anisotropy instead.

Nano magnetic channel illustratively has a first portion a second portion and a notch . First portion connects to the free layer of MTJ and extends to the notch . Second portion connects to the free layer of MTJ and extends to notch . Nano magnetic channel may be made from a same or similar magnetic material as free layers and e.g. CoFeB .

Device also includes a first channel electrode and a second channel electrode . Electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ and electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ . In an embodiment electrodes and are utilized to pass an electric current from one of the MTJ free layers through the nano magnetic channel to the other MTJ free layer .

When the magnetic orientations of the two free layers and are different a domain wall is illustratively formed in the nano magnetic channel . The domain wall begins at the end of the nano magnetic channel connected to the programmed MTJ and moves along the channel towards the notch. The notch acts as a strong pinning site for the domain wall movement and at block the domain wall stops at the notch. For example if MTJ is programmed at block the domain wall will move from free layer through channel portion and stop at notch . If MTJ is programmed at block the domain wall will move from free layer through channel portion and stop at notch .

At block a channel current is passed through the nano magnetic channel utilizing electrodes and . If the channel current is greater than a threshold current the domain wall is able to pass the notch and the domain wall moves through the channel towards the other MTJ or i.e. towards the MTJ not programmed at block . If however the channel current is not greater than the threshold current e.g. if no channel current is applied then the domain wall is not able to pass the notch .

Assuming that the channel current is greater than the threshold current then at block the domain wall moves into and programs the second MTJ. Accordingly at the conclusion of block both of the MTJs and and the entire nano magnetic channel will have the same magnetic orientation. Therefore any logic data programmed into the first MTJ e.g. logic state 0 or logic state 1 is directly transferred into the second MTJ without the need for any intermediate circuitry.

Furthermore free layers and illustratively have elliptical shapes with widths and lengths and channel has a rectangular shape with a width . The optimization of widths and lengths are optionally based on two criteria. The first criterion is thermal stability which may be satisfied by setting the aspect ratio to 1.4. The second criterion is to minimize the current required to switch the magnetic orientation of the free layers and . Reducing the area of layers and generally reduces the switching current. In one embodiment switching current was reduced until width was 50 nm and length was 70 nm. Accordingly in one implementation dimensions of 50 nm by 70 nm are used.

The channel width illustratively affects the ability to form a domain wall. For example it may be easier to form a domain wall as channel width increases. However a larger width also makes it more difficult to drive the domain wall to the other MTJ. In at least certain embodiments it has been found that an optimized strip width is half the free layer width based on the current required to form drive and inject the domain wall. However it is worth highlighting again that embodiments are not limited to any particular shapes and or sizes and that the information above is given for illustration purposes only.

MTJs and are optionally three input MTJ logic devices such as the one shown in . MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer a free layer a first three terminal electrode and a second three terminal electrode . Similarly MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer a free layer a first three terminal electrode and a second three terminal electrode . MTJ includes a fixed layer a nonmagnetic layer and a free layer . Additionally as previously mentioned MTJ may have two electrodes and that connect the MTJ to other components of a circuit. In an embodiment fixed layers and have the same magnetic orientation as each other and have perpendicular magnetic anisotropy. However some embodiments may have in plane magnetic anisotropy instead.

Nano magnetic channel connects the free layer of MTJ to the free layer of MTJ and nano magnetic channel connects the free layer of MTJ to the free layer of MTJ . As will be described below in greater detail free layer nano magnetic channel and nano magnetic channel may be formed as one structure. Each channel and has a notch and respectively.

Device also includes a first set of channel electrodes and and a second set of channel electrodes and . Electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ and electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ . In an embodiment electrodes and are utilized to pass an electric current from free layer through the nano magnetic channel to the other free layer . Similarly electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ and electrode is electrically connected to free layer of MTJ . Electrodes and are utilized to pass an electric current from free layer through the nano magnetic channel to the other free layer .

When the magnetic orientation of either one of the outer MTJ free layers and is different than the inner MTJ free layer a domain wall is illustratively formed in the nano magnetic channel. At block the domain wall stops at the closer notch. For example if MTJ is programmed and the magnetic orientation of its free layer is different than the magnetic orientation of the free layer of the center MTJ then a domain wall will form in nano magnetic channel and it will stop at notch . Also for example if MTJ is programmed and the magnetic orientation of its free layer is different than the magnetic orientation of the free layer of the center MTJ then a domain wall will form in nano magnetic channel and it will stop at notch .

At block a channel current is generated utilizing either the first set of electrodes and or the second set of electrodes and . Assuming that the channel current is greater than the threshold current the domain wall will move past the present notch and stop at the further notch. For example if a channel current is generated utilizing the first set of electrodes and a domain wall will move from notch to notch . If a channel current is generated utilizing the second set of electrodes and a domain wall will move from notch to notch .

At block assuming that the domain wall has moved from the closer notch to the further notch the center MTJ has now been programmed with the logic data e.g. logic state 0 or logic state 1 that was programmed into the outer MTJ. Therefore any logic data programmed into either one of the outer MTJs or can be directly transferred into the center MTJ without the need for any intermediate circuitry.

Similar to device in in notches and illustratively have triangular shapes with widths and lengths and free layers and have elliptical shapes with widths and lengths . In one particular embodiment notches and have widths of 15 nm and lengths of 6 nm. Free layers and have widths of 50 nm and lengths of 70 nm. Embodiments are again however not limited to any particular shapes and or sizes.

The main MTJs in each logic unit are labeled R R R R R and R. The status of each main MTJ is controlled through nano magnetic channels by the input MTJs R R R R R R and R and or by the reference MTJs Rand R. The input MTJs R R R R R R and R are controlled by one or more current inputs A B and C and the reference MTJs Rand Rhave fixed low and high resistances respectively. Each nano magnetic channel is controlled by one or more control signals M M M M M M M M and M M .

Columns and list the states of the control signals M M M M M M M M and M M respectively. A 1 corresponds to the control signal being on i.e. the current being applied to the channel and a 0 corresponds to the control signal being off i.e. the current not being applied to the channel .

For example the first two rows and show the inputs and control signals for performing the SUM and DIFF functions respectively. As can be seen in columns and all three inputs A B and C are active inputs that are utilized for the SUM and DIFF operations. Additionally as can be seen in columns and the control signal M M is on while the rest of the control signals are off.

The rest of the table entries can be read similarly. For example row shows the inputs and control signals for performing the AND operation. For the AND operation the A and B inputs in columns and are the active inputs and the C input is set to 0 i.e. a negative current is applied to the C input . Additionally for the AND operation as can be seen in columns and the control signal M M is on while the other control signals are off.

In another embodiment a MTJ device includes a first electrode connected to a free layer of a first magnetic tunnel junction. A second electrode is connected to a free layer of a second magnetic tunnel junction. The first and the second electrodes are configured to pass an electric current through the nano channel. The nano channel illustratively comprises one or more of non magnetic grapheme metal e.g. Cu Ag semiconductor materials e.g. ZnO Si or diluted magnetic semiconductor materials e.g. ZnO Co ZnO C etc. .

In yet another embodiment a device includes a first giant magnetoresistive GMR device having a free layer a nonmagnetic layer and a fixed layer. The device may also include a second giant magnetoresistive GMR device having a free layer a nonmagnetic layer and a fixed layer. Additionally the device may have a nano magnetic channel that connects the free layer of the first GMR device to the free layer of the second GMR.

As has been described above embodiments of the present disclosure include systems and methods for direct communication between magnetic tunnel junctions MTJs . In a first embodiment two or three MTJs are connected in parallel and the output of the two or three MTJs is directly connected in series to another MTJ. In a second embodiment MTJs are directly connected utilizing a nano magnetic channel. Accordingly embodiments enable MTJs to communicate directly without the need for intermediate circuitry such as sensing amplifiers. This may help reduce integration complexity power consumption area and delay overheads in MTJ devices. Embodiments may also provide other benefits such as but not limited to providing non volatile memory combining logic and memory functions in one circuit and simplifying fabrication.

Finally it is to be understood that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments this detailed description is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of structure and arrangements of parts within the principles of the present disclosure to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

