---

title: System and method for user profiling from gathering user data through interaction with a wireless communication device
abstract: A system, method, and wireless communication device that profiles a user thereof, or a user at a second wireless communication device in communication therewith. The wireless communication device gathers user data for a user thereof, or from a user at a second wireless communication device, and either directly generates, or has generated elsewhere, a user profile, such as a personality or psychological profile, or medical diagnosis of the user, and can display the user profile to the user and/or alter the wireless communication device functionality based upon the user profile. The gathered user data can be from a user interaction with the wireless communication device, from information available to the wireless communication device, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892171&OS=08892171&RS=08892171
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08892171
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 141 302 entitled System And Method For User Profiling From Gathering User Data Through Interaction With A Wireless Communication Device filed on Jun. 18 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 945 101 filed on Jun. 20 2007 both of which are assigned to the assignee hereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 398 005 entitled System And Method For User Profiling From Gathering User Data Through Interaction With A Wireless Communication Device filed on Feb. 16 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 398 057 entitled System And Method For User Profiling From Gathering User Data Through Interaction With A Wireless Communication Device filed on Feb. 16 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 398 179 entitled System And Method For User Profiling From Gathering User Data Through Interaction With A Wireless Communication Device filed on Feb. 16 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 427 631 entitled System And Method For User Profiling From Gathering User Data Through Interaction With A Wireless Communication Device filed on Mar. 22 2012 each of which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 945 101 filed on Jun. 20 2007.

The invention relates to wireless communication devices that communicate across a wireless communication network. More particularly the invention relates to a system and method for generating profiles for users of wireless communication devices based upon user interaction with the device.

Existent computing devices to include wireless communication devices such as mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs interactive pagers and other wireless computer platforms can alter their interactive functionality with the user. Typically the user configures the functional parameters of the device such as the user interface UI navigation choices such as screen presentation and other items such as ring tones and automatic turn off. Most of these functions are not adjusted automatically by the device but are set in default parameters by the vendor until specifically adjusted by the user. Mobile computing devices also typically have limited resources such as bandwidth processing capability and power such that it is always preferably to limit device activity to conserve the device resources.

There are some computer devices that attempt to learn the preferences of the user of the device based upon user interaction with the device. For example a computer device will often implement a most recently used algorithm with device functionality thereby assuming that the most recently used item or function of the user of the device is the one most likely to be next desired by the user. Computer devices typically use only rudimentary algorithms that try to predict user desire based upon simple patterns of usage of the device because a more complex algorithm will require too much of the mobile device resources to implement. Consequently without user modification the computer device will not automatically significantly alter the device functionality for the user.

It is therefore desirous to have an ability to adequately profile the user of a wireless communication device and selectively modify wireless communication device functionality based upon the profile of the specific user and it is to such a system and method to provide this ability that this invention is primarily directed.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method and wireless communication device that profiles a user thereof or a user at a second wireless communication device in communication therewith. The wireless communication device gathers user data for a user thereof or from a user at a second wireless communication device and either directly generates or has generated elsewhere a user profile such as a psychological profile or medical diagnosis of the user and can display the user profile to the user and or alter the wireless communication device functionality based upon the user profile. The gathered user data can be from physical user interaction with the wireless communication device or from data other equipment resident at the wireless communication device such as a camera and medical diagnostic devices.

In one embodiment the wireless communication device collects data about the specific device user and creates a particular psychological or personality profile for a user and maps those scores either directly or indirectly into UI configuration responses and behavior. The wireless device can also reconfigure itself for multiple users of the same device where those multiple users may have different personalities. When these wireless communication devices are then in communication with other user devices the respective profile data can be used to aid the user communications with each other.

In one embodiment the system for altering wireless communication device functionality for wireless communication devices on a wireless communication network such alteration based upon the user profile of the user of the wireless communication device includes at least one wireless communication device configured to gather user data from physical user interaction with the wireless communication device. The wireless communication device has a functionality for user interaction and the device can selectively transmit the gathered user data across the wireless communication network. At least one computer device receives the transmitted gathered user data and creates user profile data based upon the received gathered user data and then transmits the user profile data back to the at least one wireless communication device. The wireless communication device can alter the wireless communication device functionality based upon the received user profile data.

In one embodiment the method of profiling a user of a wireless communication device and altering the wireless communication device functionality based upon the user profile includes gathering user data from physical user interaction with the wireless communication device the wireless communication device having a functionality for user interaction and creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data. Then the device can alter the wireless communication device functionality based upon the gathered user data.

In one embodiment the wireless communication device has a wireless communication device functionality based upon a user profile and gathers user data from physical user interaction then creates a user profile based upon the gathered user data. However the wireless communication device can selectively alter functionality based upon the gathered user data but does not have to do so. The wireless device can also be equipped to gather medical data of the user and make a medical diagnosis as a user profile.

The various embodiments may include methods of altering a functionality of a wireless communication device by gathering data regarding a user of a first wireless communication device creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data transmitting the user profile to a second wireless communication device and altering the functionality of the second wireless communication device based upon the user profile. In an embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a calendar application of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a calendar application of the first wireless communication device may include interpreting a user schedule. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting types of software applications used by a user of the first wireless communication device.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting contents of communications on the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment interpreting contents of communications on the first wireless communication device may include interpreting content in an email message sent by a user of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a social media application of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting financial information relating to a user obtained from the first wireless communication device.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a web browser of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a web browser of the first wireless communication device may include interpreting a history of Internet searches performed by the user using the web browser. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a web browser of the first wireless communication device may include interpreting types of websites accessed by the user using the web browser. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a web browser of the first wireless communication device may include interpreting content loaded from websites accessed by the user using the web browser.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting location information obtained from the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment interpreting location information obtained from the first wireless communication device may include interpreting information regarding movements of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a global positioning system receiver of first wireless communication device.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a media player operating on the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting data obtained from a personal monitoring device. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a personal monitoring device may include interpreting data obtained from a heart rate monitor. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a personal monitoring device may include interpreting data obtained from a blood glucose meter. In a further embodiment interpreting data obtained from a personal monitoring device may include interpreting data obtained from a breathalyzer.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting information regarding the user received from an external device in communication with the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment interpreting information regarding the user received from an external device in communication with the first wireless communication device may include interpreting information received from an external user monitoring device selected from the group of a medical monitoring device and an exercise device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting information collected regarding the user of the first wireless communication device from an external database.

In a further embodiment creating a user profile based upon the gathered user data may include interpreting contents of a video recorded by the video camera of the first wireless communication device. In a further embodiment creating a user profile may include performing a psychological evaluation based upon the gathered user data. In a further embodiment creating a user profile may include making a medical diagnosis based upon the gathered user data. In a further embodiment altering the functionality of the second wireless communication device may include altering a graphical user interface GUI of the second wireless communication device.

Further embodiments include a computing device having a processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments include a computing device that includes various means for performing operations corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments include a non transitory processor readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments include a system that may include a first wireless communication device having a transmitter for transmitting wireless signals a memory and a processor coupled to the transmitter and the memory of the first wireless communication device and a second wireless communication device having a receiver configured to receive signals transmitted by the transmitter a memory and a processor coupled to the receiver and memory of the second wireless communication device. Each of the first and second wireless communications devices may be configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Other advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent after review of the hereinafter set forth Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

As shown here the wireless device can be a cellular telephone with a graphics display a personal digital assistant a mobile email device with a graphics display which is shown here as a wireless device with qwerty capability such as a Blackberry by RIM or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The system can thus be performed on any form of remote computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof. Further the term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and nonexecutable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments.

In overview the system allows the wireless communication devices to alter their functionality based upon a specific user profile generated from the user of the wireless communication device . The system also enables the wireless communication devices to create user profiles for other users during interaction with other wireless communication devices. As is more fully described below at least one wireless communication device is configured to gather user data from physical user interaction with the wireless communication device wherein the wireless communication device has a functionality for user interaction such as a specific UI as shown in . In this embodiment of the system the wireless communication device selectively transmits the gathered user data across the wireless communication network to at least the user profile server which is configured to receive the transmitted gathered user data and which creates user profile data such as a personality profile as described herein based upon the received gathered user data. The user profile server transmits the user profile data to the sending wireless communication device and the wireless communication device can alter wireless communication device functionality based upon the received user profile data. As shown further below the user profiling can also occur completely at the wireless computer device .

As particularly shown in the wireless communication device as embodied here is a mobile telephone having a computer platform . The mobile telephone has a numeric keypad a graphic display through which is implemented a user interface UI a microphone and a group communication activator or here a push to talk button and a camera . There are other devices and components known in the art that can be placed on the wireless communication computer platform and utilized by the user and or the computer platform of mobile telephone .

The computer platform can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform includes among other components an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit programmable gate array or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and is not normally upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold the software applications not actively used in memory such as the software applications downloaded from the application download server . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The user profiling can therefore be held in the local database and implemented on the computer platform when required.

In general mobile telephones and telecommunication devices such as cellular telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs . These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor such as ASIC of the cellular device. The downloaded data or executed applications can be immediately displayed on the display or stored in the local database when not in use. Likewise the application can execute automatically or transparently to the user. The software applications can be treated as a regular software application resident on the wireless device and the user can selectively upload stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution on the API . The user of the wireless device can also selectively delete a software application from the local database . As a result end users of the mobile telephones can customize their telephones with programs such as games printed media stock updates news or any other type of information or program available for download from application download servers through the wireless network .

In operation the wireless communication devices gather user data either directly from the user from interaction such as asking the user a series of questions and or can make observations of the user and interpret the data such as through sensing devices like the camera and microphone . The wireless communication device can also collect data about the user from another device such as user profile server or wireless communication device via direct connection or through the internet. The user data is preferably collected and updated periodically for the purpose of generating a user profile such as a personality profile a psychological type a medical diagnosis or an emotional state. The user profile can be for the short term such as for user data gathered in a current communication or can be long term or based upon a history of user interaction. The user profile can be used in supplement with other configuration data to deliver a user experience which would be most compatible entertaining and productive for the end user of the wireless communication device . As used herein the term physical interaction is meant to encompass the range of user interaction such as physical contact with the device buttons keypad and other direct contact and can also encompass data sensed from the user by the wireless device such as pictures taken from the camera or medical information taken from a medical device such as remote earpiece voice volume speech patterns and the like.

As an example a wireless communication device such as mobile phone has the ability to support multiple UI configurations and have multiple possible dialogs functions applications and contexts within those configurations. The mobile phone could either recognize the user thereof via user input such as a PIN number use biometric data such as a fingerprint reader voice pattern recognition or face recognition microphone camera or request identification of the user. The device would present the user with visual and verbal UI clues for its use that are compatible and harmonious with the user s personality such as the UI configurations illustrated in . The wireless computer device will perform specific applications or behaviors based on the personality of the user in addition to more common UI behaviors. The mobile phone can therefore leverage applications for the user that are compatible and harmonious with the user s personality and any situational data inputs from the camera microphone or any other sensors . The wireless communication device can also be directly in communication with the user profile server thus having significant resources available to generate many types of profiles or scores to be leveraged by the user interface or other device functionality such as a personality score an Intelligence Quota IQ score cultural score and religion score.

Other computer devices such as wireless communication devices user profile server or other devices on the wireless network and applications on those devices that are connecting to the wireless communication device that stores a user profile can selectively have access to the user profile in order to aid the calling party or application to communicate better with the user. The permission to access the data can be limited by the system or only permissible through user allowance.

There are several personality tests known that give one insight into the behavior of a person and the system and wireless devices can individually or in tandem take gathered user data and execute a personality test on the user to try to determine user preferences and behavior. For example one well known personality test is the Myers Briggs personality test. In simple overview there are four categories of personality that are tested and evaluated. The first is introversion and extroversion . These attitudes show how a person orients and receives their energy. In the extroverted attitude the energy flow is outward and the preferred focus is on other people and things whereas in the introverted attitude the energy flow is inward and the preferred focus is on one s own thoughts and ideas.

Another attitude is sensing and intuition which are the perceiving functions. They indicate how a person prefers to receive data. Sensing prefers to receive data primarily from the five senses and intuition prefers to receive data from the unconscious or seeing relationships via insights. A third attitude is thinking and feeling which are the judging functions. Thinking uses logical true or false if then logical connections. Feeling uses more or less better worse evaluations. When Thinking or Feeling is extroverted judgments tend to rely on external sources and the generally accepted rules and procedures. When introverted Thinking and Feeling judgments tend to be subjective relying on internally generated ideas for logical organization and evaluation. The fourth attitude is judging and perceiving which reveal the specific attitudes of the functions. Judging types tend to prefer a step by step approach to life relying on external rules and procedures and preferring quick closure. The perceiving function is the direct opposite to the judging function. This can result in a bouncing around approach to life relying on subjective judgments and a desire to leave all options open. The four attitudes can be placed into a chart like that shown in and the wireless communication device can accordingly set the device functionality based upon what personality the user is believed to be. The chart in thus contains device UI predetermined settings for all potential Myers Briggs personality types.

As shown in the example of the display of the mobile phone can show the determined user profile for the user of the mobile phone which here is the Briggs Myers personality evaluation to the user. The user has been determined to be an INTJ shown at arrow with the device functionality set accordingly as shown at arrow Box in . This user profile can be based upon long term user interaction with the wireless communication device or can be updated in the short term such as in the conversation shown in . Likewise the same user profile can be generated for another user of a communication device such as shown and described below relative to .

In an active communication is occurring between mobile phone and mobile wireless platform where the emotion of the speakers engaged in a conversation is profiled and the profile is communicated to the other device such that the users of the devices know what the emotional state of the other user is. The mobile phone includes a display and a camera . The mobile wireless platform includes a display and also a remote earpiece . In this embodiment the remote earpiece also includes a medical diagnostic device that senses the blood pressure of the wearer user . The user profiling in this communication typically occurs in the short term in this embodiment virtually in real time because emotions are being profiled. Here the receiving device is the mobile phone and the talker mobile wireless platform is indicated as being angry which is shown on the mobile phone in graphic . Here the indication of anger comes from the blood pressure data taken from the user at remote earpiece and the mobile wireless platform sends the angry profile to the mobile phone .

In parallel the mobile phone gathers user data from the microphone from the user who is speaking and the voice can be analyzed to indicate stress which implies nervousness. The nervousness profile is then sent from the mobile device to the mobile wireless platform . The receiver is then indicated as nervous on the display of the mobile wireless platform as shown at graphic . Such a presentation can be done in split screen such that the user of the device sees both the profile being sent to the other device and the profile from the other device.

The gathering of user data can therefore be based upon interpretation of short term data input by the user into the wireless communication device such as the volume of the voice of the speaker the pressure the user uses to press the keys such as at keypad input in and a picture of the user such as at camera . If the wireless communication device includes a medical diagnostic device such as the remote earpiece in the short term profile can be a medical diagnosis or other emotion or personality profile based upon gathered medical data. The gathering of short term user data can also be based upon interpretation of data input by the user into the wireless communication device such as a direct questionnaire of the user.

The gathering of user data can also be based upon long term user interaction with the wireless communication device . For example the gathering of user data can be based upon interpretation of a contact list resident in the wireless communication device or the interpretation of the number of members of one or more communication groups for the wireless communication device. Accordingly a large number of contacts or group communication members would indicate extroversion in terms of the Myers Briggs personality test. The long term interaction of the user with the wireless communication device can be based upon any gathered data gathered in the short term that is averaged to better determine the profile of the user. As described below the short term comparison and long term comparison user profile can be compared to either help to aid in the short term profile e.g. if the user always shouts shouting in the short term should not indicate anger.

In one embodiment shown in the wireless communication device executes a method on the computer platform thereof such that a user profile can be generated locally for a user. A determination is made as shown at decision as to whether the user interaction with the wireless communication device has started. If not a wait state is entered until user interaction starts. Otherwise if user interaction has started at decision a determination is then made as to whether the user is known as shown at decision . If the user is known at decision the user profile is retrieved as shown at step . Otherwise if the user is not known at decision the user data is gathered shown at step and the user profile is generated as shown at predefined process which can be a personality profile emotional state medical profile and the like. Then a determination is made as to whether there is a user profile setting for the wireless device based upon the user profile as shown at decision . Decision is also reached if a user profile was retrieved at step . If there is not a setting for the user at decision then the process ends as termination . Otherwise if there is a setting for the user profile at decision the wireless communication device settings are changed as shown at predefined process and then the process ends at termination .

The process in on the wireless communication device then makes a determination as to whether a user profile has been received for the user as shown at decision . If a user profile has been received at decision then the wireless device functionality settings are changed as shown as predefined process such as changing the UI screen presentation device volume and the like and the process then ends at termination and the wireless communication device will await another user interaction at decision . If a user profile has not been received at decision then the wireless communication device gathers the user data as described in the various embodiments herein and sends the gathered user data to the user profile server as shown at step and enters a loop at decision to gather and send user data until ultimately receiving a user profile back from the user profile server .

In the process at the user profile server in communication with the wireless communication device is shown. The user profile server determines if the wireless communication device has requested a user profile as shown at decision and if no request has been made the user profile server will enter a wait state for the request at decision . Otherwise once the user profile has been requested at decision a determination is then made as to whether the user for which the user profile is requested is known as shown at decision . If the user is known the user profile is retrieved as shown at step and then sent back to the wireless communication device . Otherwise if the user is not known to the user profile server at decision the user profile server will not send a user profile to the wireless communication device which will cause that device to start gathering and sending user data as shown in and the user profile server will receive gathered user data as shown at step and then generate a user profile for the received user data as shown as predefined process . The user profile server then sends the generated user profile back to the wireless communication device and also stores the user profile as shown at step and the process then ends as shown at termination . The storage of the generated user profile step is preferable to create a database of user profiles but is not required.

If no short term profile is requested at decision a determination is then made as to whether the communication has ended as shown at decision . Otherwise if a short term profile is requested by the user of the wireless communication device at decision the user data is gathered for the communicating device as shown at step which can be data such as the caller s voice a picture of the caller and other medical data sent as described herein or can alternately be the review of a specific user profile sent from the communicating device. Then a short term user profile is generated as shown at predefined process and the short term profile is displayed such as on display on mobile phone . The short term profile can be an emotional state like that shown in or personality profile such as Myers Briggs type psychological profile or medical information. The predetermined process can also include the retrieval of a long term profile for the user and comparison of the long term profile data with the short term data to note any anomalies e.g. such as shouting when the user always shouts or grimacing when the user always grimaces. Such harmonization data from the comparison can also be stored to make a more accurate long term user profile.

After the short term profile has been displayed at step the determination as to whether that communication has ended decision is made. If the communication has not ended at decision the process returns to decision to determine if the short term user profile is still requested and then will update the short term profile accordingly. Otherwise if the communication has ended as decision the process ends as shown at termination .

Other changes in the system and methods shown herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art. For example the method shown on the wireless communication device in could likewise be implemented with a user profile server similarly to the method shown in but with the user profile server supplying short term user profiles to the wireless communication device . Furthermore more than two computer devices can be used in the present system and method and accordingly such implementation is readily scalable. And the wireless communication device could likewise show many communicating devices and their user profiles at once such as in a group communication PTT call .

It can be seen that the wireless device accordingly provides an inventive method of profiling a user of a wireless communication device and potentially altering the wireless communication device functionality based upon the user profile through in one embodiment the gathering of user data from physical user interaction with the wireless communication device or alternately the user data can come from another computer device in communication therewith such as the user profile server . A user profile is then created as based upon the gathered user data and the wireless communication device functionality altered based upon the gathered user data. Alternately the user profile can be displayed to the user such as shown in display in .

The gathering of user data can based upon interpretation of short term data input by the user into the wireless communication device as shown in or alternately can be based upon interpretation of long term data input by the user into the wireless communication device over time which can provide a more accurate user profile be eliminating anomalies in the data. The gathering of user data is based upon interpretation of user physical interaction with one or more data input mechanisms of the wireless communication device such as through speaking in the microphone taking a picture through a camera or even from a medical device such as remote earpiece .

As discussed above mobile communication devices e.g. cellular phones smart phones tablets etc. have become faster and more feature rich than ever and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. Today s mobile devices have impressive processing capabilities large memories and include video cameras GPS receivers portable media players sensors and other similar components. In addition mobile devices are now capable of executing powerful software applications which may include productivity applications e.g. email calendar contact databases Microsoft office etc. financial applications social media applications e.g. Facebook app etc. and other applications for managing the user s personal and or business life. Mobile devices may support cloud computing wherein the mobile device may send and receive user information to and from a remote server such that the information is available everywhere and accessible on any compatible device i.e. is independent of any specific device .

Due to these enhancements mobile devices are rapidly growing in use and in popularity. Mobile devices are quickly becoming a necessary and indispensable tool for navigating modern society conducting business interacting with others and accomplishing many everyday tasks. Accordingly mobile devices are becoming ubiquitous and ever present in modern life. As such mobile devices now have unprecedented levels of access to information generated by or relating to mobile device users. Also mobile devices are being equipped with more and different types of radios enabling wireless communications with a variety of devices including equipment that may obtain information about a user e.g. exercise equipment medical monitors automobiles kitchen appliances points of purchase in stores and gas stations etc. . In various embodiments this information may be used to generate user profiles that more accurately characterize the user.

With such access to other information related to a user further embodiments may includes systems methods and devices for altering the functionality of another mobile device based upon a user profile generated from such other information available to the communications device. Various embodiments may thus make use of such information in addition to or in combination with the above mentioned techniques for altering a functionality of a wireless communication device based upon a user profile generated from data gathered from a physical user interaction. The information may be collected from software applications e.g. calendar application browser etc. geo spatial positioning and navigation systems e.g. global positioning system or GPS personal monitoring devices e.g. heart rate monitor blood pressure monitor thermometer pedometer blood glucose meter exercise equipment etc. and or other sensors e.g. humidity sensor breathalyzer galvanic skin response sensor etc. . Personal monitoring devices and other sensors may be a part of the wireless communications device or may be separate devices in communication with the wireless communications device e.g. external sensors etc. . The information from these sources may be collected from or stored on the wireless communication device another wireless communication device a server the Internet e.g. in the cloud or any combination thereof. In an embodiment the user profile may be generated from a combination of information gathered from a physical user interaction and other information available to the device.

In an embodiment the information used to generate the user profile may be information collected from software applications on the user s communication device. In various embodiments such software applications include but are not limited to calendar and reminder applications financial applications applications for accomplishing specific tasks e.g. word processing preparing tax reforms presentation applications or accounting applications location based applications e.g. mapping and geolocation apps web browsers entertainment applications e.g. an audio or multimedia player application applications for accessing user accounts e.g. banking apps and person training and development applications. As with embodiments that develop a user profile based on interactions with the mobile device these embodiments may infer activities moods availability and other useful profile information based on the information available from applications and data stores on the mobile device either alone or in combination with information gathered from user interactions with the mobile device.

For example the user profile may be generated to account for the user s schedule using information obtained from the user s calendar application e.g. currently in a meeting meeting this afternoon is in meetings all day has meetings with important clients etc. . Likewise the user profile may be generated to account for how busy the user is by evaluating the types of applications being used e.g. using tax preparation software vs. games or social media .

Other information available on the mobile device that may be used to generate the user profile may include the number and content of communications. For example a large number of social media status updates may indicate that user is not busy or the presence of an uncharacteristically large number of negative words in emails may indicate user is upset or angry.

Other information available on the mobile device that may be used to generate the user profile may include financial information. For example if the user s bank account balance or stock portfolio recently increased by a significant amount this may indicate that the user is more likely to be in good mood whereas a significant decrease or a prolonged reduction may indicate that the user is likely to be upset or under elevated levels of stress.

Other information that may be used to generate the user profile may include browsing information e.g. past searches browsing history types of websites visited content of websites visited etc. .

In an embodiment mobile device location information may be used to generate the user profile alone or in conjunction with user interactions with the device and or other information available to or within the device. For example the user s current location may be determined using a GPS receiver in the phone or other similar positioning technologies of the Mobile device and cross referenced with a map a database or user information to determine if to determine if the user is currently at home work school theater restaurant etc. This information may be used for example when determining the user s mood psychological type emotional state or in making a medical diagnosis. For example the user may be more likely to be in a pleasant mood if he she is at home or more likely to be annoyed if receiving a phone call while at a restaurant. Again various embodiments may use location information in conjunction with other information collected from the user e.g. financial information mobile device activity etc. to generate the user profile.

In addition to the user s current location the location information may include information regarding the user s current movements e.g. is currently traveling is exercising is stationary etc. and or history of movements e.g. was in Baltimore last week has been traveling extensively etc. . In an embodiment the profile may be generated by taking into account whether the user is following his her established routine e.g. arrived to work on time still at work or is off his her routine e.g. arrived later than usual left earlier than usual . This information may be used for example in conjunction with other information to determine whether the user is experiencing a medical condition or is dealing with a personal emergency that could impact the user s mood emotional state or medical diagnosis.

In an embodiment information obtained from the media player may be used to generate the user profile. For example if the user is listening to positive or upbeat music it may indicate that he she is more likely to be in a good mood. As another example if the user s listening history indicates that the user has been recently listening to uncharacteristically sad or low tempo music this may indicate that the user is more likely to be sad or in a poor emotional state. As another example if the user is watching a movie it may indicate that he is either available or busy depending on the content of the movie the user s viewing history the user s personality e.g. information obtained from sources etc.

In a further embodiment the user profile may be generated based at least in part on information obtained from personal monitoring devices e.g. heart rate monitor blood pressure monitor thermometer pedometer blood glucose meter etc. that are either a part of e.g. embedded connected via USB etc. or in communication with e.g. BlueTooth WIFI 3G etc. the mobile device. For example information obtained from a heart rate monitor blood glucose meter and or blood pressure monitor may be used to determine if the user is exercising and therefore occupied experiencing a medical condition under stress or in a bad mood etc.

In an embodiment the user profile may be generated based on information obtained from other types of sensors e.g. humidity sensor breathalyzer galvanic skin response sensor etc. that are either a part of or in communication with the mobile device. For example high humidity information obtained from a humidity sensor may indicate that the user is likely to be irritated. Information obtained from a breathalyzer may be used to infer that the user is experiencing a medical condition or has been drinking alcohol which may identify the user s emotional state or mood.

In step the first communication device may interpret the gathered data to obtain information that may useful in creating a user profile. This interpretation of the gathered data will depend upon the type and format of the information. Some examples will serve to illustrate the types of data interpretation that may be accomplished in step depending upon the type of information.

When the gathered data is obtained from a calendar or user schedule application the data may be interpreted to identify a user s scheduled appointment recent appointments and or future appointment any of which may reflect on the user s activities moods etc.

When the gathered data is related to applications in use or recently used by the user the data may be interpreted in order to identify the types of software applications that the user is running which may reflect on the user s current activities workload and mood. For example if the user has been recently running game applications it may indicate that the user is in a good mood or has time available for conversation.

When the gathered data is obtained from communication applications such as messaging and or e mail applications the data may be interpreted to determine characteristics related to the communications. For example the interpretation may look for words expressing anger or urgency count the number of and or use language interpreting algorithms to assess the emotional content of the communications.

When the gathered data is obtained from a social media application the data may be interpreted in order to assess a user s activities or the nature of the interactions with others which may be indicative of current activities or moods.

When the gathered data involves financial information related to the user the data may be interpreted to determine whether the user has a large or small bank account since such financial information may be reflective of the user s mood.

When the gathered data is obtained from a web browser the data interpretation may include inferring a user s mood or activities based on a history of Internet searches types of websites accessed and or content downloaded from websites.

When the gathered data relates to a current location e.g. movement current GPS coordinates etc. the data interpretation may involve inferring a status or mood based upon the user s location. For example if the gathered location data indicates that the user is currently in the Caribbean this may indicate that the user is on vacation and in a good mood but not receptive to business related communications.

When the gathered data is obtained from a media player the data interpretation may involve determining the type of media being played which may indicate a user s mood or openness to being interrupted. For example if the user is listening to upbeat music this may be interpreted as indicating that the user may be in a good mood and receptive to communications whereas if the user is viewing a movie this may indicate that the user is likely to be annoyed by an interruption until the movie is completed.

When the gathered data is obtained from a personal monitoring device e.g. a heart rate monitor a glucose meter breathalyzer etc. the data interpretation may be as appropriate for that particular type of monitoring device and may include using the data in a diagnostic algorithm such as to estimate a user s current medical or physical condition.

When the gathered data is obtained from an external database the data interpretation will depend upon the type of information obtained.

When the gathered data is obtained from a video camera the data interpretation may involve analyzing a user s expression and or movements to infer a mood or activity of the user.

In all of the data interpretations involved in step the data interpretations may be related to physiological evaluations emotional or mood evaluations and or medical diagnostic evaluations.

In step the first communication device may generate a user profile based upon the gathered user data and or data interpretations. In step the first communication device may transmit the user profile to a second communications device which may receive the user profile and alter its functionality as described herein.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor and may include multiple processor systems one or more of which may be or include multi core processors. The processor may be coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers.

The embodiments described above may also be implemented within a variety of personal computing devices such as a laptop computer as illustrated in . Many laptop computers include a touch pad touch surface that serves as the computer s pointing device and thus may receive drag scroll and flick gestures similar to those implemented on mobile computing devices equipped with a touch screen display and described above. A laptop computer will typically include a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive of Flash memory. The computer may also include a floppy disc drive and a compact disc CD drive coupled to the processor . The computer device may also include a number of connector ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections or receiving external memory devices such as a USB or FireWire connector sockets or other network connection circuits for coupling the processor to a network. In a notebook configuration the computer housing includes the touchpad the keyboard and the display all coupled to the processor . Other configurations of computing device may include a computer mouse or trackball coupled to the processor e.g. via a USB input as are well known which may also be use in conjunction with the various embodiments.

The processors and may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described above. In some devices multiple processors and may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory and before they are accessed and loaded into the processor and . The processor and may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions. In many devices the internal memory may be a volatile or nonvolatile memory such as flash memory or a mixture of both. For the purposes of this description a general reference to memory refers to memory accessible by the processor and including internal memory or removable memory plugged into the device and memory within the processor and itself.

Since the methods of the various embodiments may be executed on a mobile device and other computer platforms the methods may be implemented in an application or processor executable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the operations of the method. The computer readable medium may be the memory of the server or may be in a database accessible by the mobile device. Further the non transitory computer readable medium may be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the blocks of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the blocks these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. A non transitory storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

