---

title: Login initiated scanning of computing devices
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for login initiated remote scanning of computer devices. The present invention detects login to the network via access management systems. The login data provides information that identifies the device so that the device can be checked against a scan database to determine if and when a previous scan occurred. Based on the findings in the scan database determinations are made as to whether to perform a scan. Additionally, the level of scanning can be determined based on previous scan dates and previous scan results, which may dictate customized scanning. In addition, the priority of the impending scan may be dictated by previous scan dates and results. Further embodiments provide for assessing risk, such as risk scoring or the like, concurrently or in near-real-time with the completion of the scan so that alerts may be communicated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08695099&OS=08695099&RS=08695099
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08695099
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 511 entitled Login Initiated Scanning of Computing Devices filed Jul. 28 2010.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for scanning computing devices for information and more particularly for user login initiated scanning of computing devices for information such as compliance and risk information.

Conventionally two basic strategies exist for scanning computer devices for compliance and risk information. The first method is referred to herein as client based and the second method is referred to herein as client less. Client based scanning methods require that a client i.e. a computer application be installed on each target device i.e. the device being scanned with the client running as a process. Once the process runs the requisite checks the client communicates with a networked central collection point to report the results of the scan. Client less scanning methods are executed on a device other than the target device for example scanning is executed at a server and perform their checks by either port scanning querying of public network interfaces or with the proper user credentials querying the target device. Each of the two methods provide for distinct advantages and disadvantages.

From the client based scanning advantages perspective the scan operation runs when the target device is running this insures that the scan will occur. In addition once the target device is connected to the network the results of the scan are communicated insuring that scan results are properly recorded. Moreover since the method uses local processing resources at the target level the processing load is spread across all of the target devices thus eliminating the need to incorporate large processing intensive scanning devices a the server level. However from the disadvantages perspective client based scanning is limited because if a target device does not have the client installed the target device goes undetected. Additionally in many instances if the client is not running when the target device is in communication with the network the target device goes undetected. Such occurrences are prone to occur in light of the fact that such scanning clients can be identified and disabled by the user. In addition client based scanning systems do not perform network discovery of new computing devices and therefore the systems are unaware of new devices or subnets requiring scanning. Moreover over time clients require periodical update revision in the client based system such updating requires that client be capable of update and if capable that the target devices be connected to the network while the client is running in order for the update to occur.

Client less scanning benefits in that network discovery can be readily performed to identify new computing devices not previously seen or scanned. In addition client less scanning does not require installation on the target device and therefore issues related to improper installation or failure to install are averted. In the same regard since client less scanning does not require a running process on the target device client less scanning is less susceptible to being disabled by the target user. Additionally since the scanning process is executed centrally client less scanning can be updated and revised centrally insuring that all scans going forward implement the same revision of the application. However client less scanning also includes numerous disadvantages. For example the target device must be connected to the network when the scan is being executed or if the target device is unconnected it will go undetected. In addition in many instances in which information retrieval is restricted to port scanning the information that is retrieved may be limited in scope. Additionally enterprise scanning may be suspended during black out periods and any target device that connects to the network during that time period goes undetected. Moreover such a client less system requires large processor intensive scanning devices to be distributed geographically across the network to accommodate the scanning process.

Therefore a need exists to develop a computing device scanning process that combines the benefits of the client based and client less scanning procedures while addressing the disadvantages of the client based and client less computing device scanning procedures. Specifically the desired system should eliminate the need to install clients applications on the target device thereby eliminating the possibility of devices going undetected and target users disabling the client. The desired system should know when a target device is connected to the network and scan at the most opportune time. In addition the desired system should not be limited to one means of retrieving information from target devices but rather allow for multiple means of retrieval. Additionally the desired system should be capable of network discovery to insure that newly added target devices are properly identified and scanned. Moreover the desired system should detect devices that come online during a black out period when the enterprise wide scanning is suspended and to scan only the identified device to prevent enterprise wide impact. Additionally the desired system should provide identification of incomplete scanning of a target device so as to insure that re scanning occurs and identification of target devices that are high risk due to previous scan results.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for login initiated remote scanning of computer devices. The remote nature of the scanning provides for a client less system which characteristically does not require installation of software of the devices desired to scanned referred to herein as the target devices . Moreover since no software client is running on the target device the user of the target device is unable to disable or otherwise prohibit the scan from occurring.

The systems apparatus methods and computer program products of the present invention detects login or login attempts to the network via existing access management systems such as Virtual Private Network VPN or the like. The login data provides information that identifies the device so that the device can be checked against a scan database to determine if and when the previous scan occurred. Based on the findings in the scan database determinations are made whether to perform a scan. In additional embodiments of the present invention a level of scanning can be determined based on previous scan dates and or scan results which may dictate more or less scanning. In addition dates of last in time scans and or scan results may dictate the priority of the impending scan i.e. devices that have not been scanned within a predetermined period or that have been identified as high risk may be scanned before other devices are scanned.

Additionally embodiments of the present invention provide for the remote scanning operation to be performed by port scanning methods by querying of public network interfaces such as NetBIOS or by authenticated queries in instances in which the devices credentials are known to the scanning system. Additionally third party scanning systems can be employed to perform the scan procedure or a portion of the scan procedure such as vulnerability scanning or the like. Utilizing scanning devices which are deployed in a distributable fashion allows for the increase of scanning devices to be employed to meet the needs of the enterprise as more target devices are added. Additionally the scanning devices are in communication with a central scan system to coordinate efficient scanning and transfer of results.

In addition embodiments provide for risk assessments to be performed concurrently or in near real time to the completion of the scan. The risk assessments may take the form of risk scores or the like. By providing for near real time risk assessment of targeted devices the invention provides for risk alerts to be communicated to designated parties for further risk assessment and if deemed appropriate corrective actions such as disabling a device or specifics functions applications on the device executed in near real time.

A method for scanning a computing device provides for first embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving from one of a plurality of network access control services login event information associated with a computing device attempting to log in to a network. The method additionally includes determining via a computing device processor if scanning of the computing device is required based on the login event information. The method further includes initiating via a computing device processor a remote scan of the computing device based on the determination that the computing device requires scanning.

In specific embodiments the method additionally includes assessing in near real time to the completion of the remote scan results of the scan. In such embodiments assessing may further include determining via a computing device processor at least one scan score for the computing device based at least in part on the results of the scan. Additionally such embodiments may include generating and initiating communication of via computing device processor a scan alert that notifies predetermined parties of the results of the scan.

In further specific embodiments of the method receiving further includes receiving from the one of a plurality of network access control services the login event information wherein the login event is one of a successful login event or a failed login event.

In yet other specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor if the computing device has been previously scanned. In such embodiments of the method determining may include comparing via the computing device processor a host name included in the login event information to a list of previously scanned host names. Additionally in such embodiments of the method initiating further includes initiating via the computing device processor the remote scan if the determination is made that the computing device has not previously been scanned.

Moreover in further embodiments of the method determining further includes identifying via the computing device processor a scan date of a last in time scan for the computing device and determining if the scan date is within a predetermined required scan period. In such embodiments of the method identifying further comprises comparing via the computing device processor a host name included in the login event information to a list that associates previously scanned host names with respective scan date. Additionally in such embodiments initiating further includes initiating via the computing device processor the remote scan if the scan date of the last in time scan for the computing is determined to be outside of the predetermined required scan period.

In additional specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining a level of scanning required for the computing device based on the login information. In such embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor if the computing device has been previously scanned within a predetermined required scan period. In addition initiating further includes initiating via the computing device processor a full remote scan if the determination is made that the computing device has not scanned within the predetermined required scan period or initiating one of a partial remote scan or no scan if the determination is made that the computing device has been scanned within the predetermined required scan period.

In yet further specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor results of one or more previous scans of the computing device. In such embodiments initiating further includes initiating via the computing device a customized remote scan based on the results of the one or more previous scans of the computing device.

In still further specific embodiments the method includes determining via a computing device a priority for initiating the scan of the computing device. In such embodiments initiating further includes initiating via a computing device processor the remote scan based on the determined priority. In related embodiments of the method determining the priority further includes determining via the computing device the priority for initiating the scan based at least on one of date of a last in time scan or results of one or more previous scans. In further related embodiments of the method initiating further includes queuing via a computing device processor the remote scan in one of a high priority queue if the priority is determined to be of a predetermined high priority level or a low priority queue if the priority is determined to be less than the high priority level.

In yet further specific embodiments the method includes identifying via a computing device processor a previously unidentified subnet within the network based on an Internet Protocol IP address included in the login event information. In related embodiments the method includes generating and initiating communication of via a computing device processor a sub net alert that notifies predetermined parties of the subnet.

An apparatus for scanning a computing device provides for second embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including a memory and at least one processor. The apparatus additionally includes a scan database stored in the memory accessible via the processor and configured to store a historical scan data. Additionally the apparatus includes a login scan application stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The login scan application includes a scan determination routine configured to receive from one of a plurality of network access control services login event information associated with a computing device attempting to log in to a network. The scan determination routine is additionally configured to determine if scanning of the computing device is required based on the login event information the historical scan data and predetermined scan criteria. The login scan application also includes a scan initiation routine configured to initiate a remote scan of the computing device based on the determination that the computing device requires scanning.

In further embodiments of the apparatus the login scan application further includes a scan assessment routine configured to assess in near real time to the completion of the remote scan scan results of the remote scan. In such embodiments the scan assessment routine may be further configured to determine at least one scan score for the computing device based at least in part on the scan results of the remote scan. In additional related embodiment of the apparatus the login scan application further includes a scan alert routine configured to generate and initiate communication of a scan alert that notifies predetermined parties of the scan results.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan determination routine is further configured to receive from the one of a plurality of network access control services the login event information wherein the login event is one of a successful login event or a failed login event.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan determination routine is further configured to determine if the computing device has been previously scanned by comparing the host name included in the login event information to the historical data in the scan database. In such embodiments the predetermined scan criteria includes criteria to initiate the remote scan if a determination is made that the computing device has not previously been scanned. Further in such embodiments the scan initiation routine is further configured to initiate the remote scan of the computing device if the determination is made that the computing device has not previously been scanned.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan determination routine is further configured to identify a scan date of a last in time scan for the computing device by comparing a host name included in the login event information to a list in the historical scan information that associates previously scanned host names with respective scan date. In such embodiments the scan determination routine is further configured to determine if the scan date is within a predetermined required scan period. Additionally in such embodiments the predetermined scan criteria includes criteria to initiate the remote scan if a determination is made that a scan date of the last in time scan for the computing device is outside of a predetermined required scan period. Moreover in such embodiments the scan initiation routine is further configured to initiate the remote scan of the computing device if the scan date of the last in time scan for the computing device is outside of the predetermined required scan period.

In yet other specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan determination routine is further configured to determine a level of scanning required for the computing device based on the login information the historical scan data and the predetermined scan criteria. In such embodiments the predetermined scan criteria includes criteria to initiate a full remote scan if a determination is made that computing device has not been full scanned within a first predetermined required scan period and criteria to initiate a partial scan if a determination is made that the computing device has not been partial scanned within a second predetermined required scan period and criteria to not initiate a scan if a determination is made that a full scan has occurred within the first predetermined required scan period and that a partial scan has occurred within the second predetermined required scan period. In such embodiments the scan initiation routine is further configured to initiate the full remote scan if the determination is made that the computing device has not been full scanned within the first predetermined required scan period or to initiate a partial scan if the determination is made that the computing device has not been partial scanned within the second predetermined required scan period.

Moreover in additional specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan criteria includes criteria associated with scan results and the scan determination routine is further configured to determine the level of scanning required for the computing device based on the login information the historical scan data and the predetermined scan criteria associated with the scan results. In such embodiments the scan initiation routine is further configured to initiate a customized remote scan based on the results of the one or more previous scans of the computing device.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the scan determination routine is further configured to determine a priority for initiating the scan of the computing device. In such embodiments the scan initiation routine is further configured to initiate the remote scan based on the determined priority. Additionally in such embodiments the scan determination routine is further configured to determine the priority for initiating the scan based at least on one of date of a last in time scan or results of one or more previous scans.

In other specific embodiments the apparatus includes a security event management application is further configured to identify a previously unidentified subnet within the network based on an Internet Protocol IP address included in the login event information. In such embodiments the apparatus may further include a subnet alert application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to generate and initiate communication of a sub net alert that notifies predetermined parties of the subnet.

A computer program product that includes a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive from one of a plurality of network access control services login event information associated with a computing device attempting to log in to a network. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine if scanning of the computing device is required based on the login event information. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to initiate a remote scan of the computing device based on the determination that the computing device requires scanning.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for login initiated remote scanning of computer devices. The present invention detects login or login attempts to the network via existing access management systems. The login data provides information that identifies the device so that the device can be checked against a scan database to determine if and when the previous scan occurred. Based on the findings in the scan database a determination is made to whether to perform a scan. Additionally the level of scanning can be based on previous scan dates and previous scan results which may dictate customized scanning. In addition dates of last in time scans and or scan results may dictate the priority of the impending scan. Further embodiments provide for assessing risk such as risk scoring or the like concurrently or in near real time with the completion of the scan so that alerts may be communicated to notify designated parties for the purpose of instituting corrective actions such as disabling applications or devices proximate in time to the scan process.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for login initiated remote scanning of computer devices. The invention leverages information from any network access control service such as Private Network VPN or the like to identify the computing device. Once identified the system checks a scan database to determine if the device has been previously scanned and if so the date time of the last in time scan. This information is used to determine if a scan should be performed and in some embodiments the level of scanning to be performed. In additional embodiments the scan determination process may include a determination of the results of previous scans and performing the necessary level of scanning including customized scanning based on the previous results.

Additional embodiments of the invention provide for determining a priority for the scan based on date time of the last in time scan and or the previous scan results. Thus if a device has not been scanned within a predetermined time period and or if previous results place the device in a high risk category the device is be placed in a high priority queue in which scanning occurs in the immediate future.

Additional embodiments of the invention provide for risk assessment to occur during the scan or in near real time with the completion of the scan i.e. on the fly . In specific embodiments the risk assessment may take the form of a risk score or the like. Such on the fly risk assessment allows for risk alerts to be sent to designated parties so as to instantaneously notify the party that a particular device has been found to be at high risk. On the fly scan assessments and instantaneous alert notification provide for corrective actions such as limiting device functionality disabling the device or the like to occur proximate in time to the scan assessment thereby limiting the risk to the enterprise.

Thus apparatus systems methods and computer program products are herein disclosed that provide login initiated scanning of computing devices. provides a high level schematic diagram of an apparatus configured for login initiated scanning of computing devices in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The scanning that is performed on the computing device can be for any purpose required by the scan network or security administrator. For example scanning purpose may include but is not limited to risk vulnerability assessment capability assessment usage assessment and the like. Unlike other client less scanning systems which conduct enterprise wide scanning on a regularly scheduled basis and therefore since offline devices are not scanned during regularly scheduled scans provide for no guarantee that a device will be scanned the present invention performs scans on computing devices in conjunction with the login procedure thus scanning is initiated when the system knows that that computing device is connected or attempting to connect to the network.

The apparatus includes a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory . The memory of apparatus stores login scan application that is configured to receive login event information determine if scanning is required based on the login event information historical scan data and preconfigured scan criteria and perform the scan as required in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus login scan application includes scan determination routine that is configured to receive login event information associated with a computing device attempting to log into a network. According to specific embodiments of the invention the login information may be associated with a successful login event or unsuccessful login event. Thus according to embodiments scanning of the computing device may be initiated in the event the user of the device successfully logs in and scanning may also be initiated in the event the user of the device is unable to successfully login. The relevant login event information may include but is not limited to the Internet Protocol IP address of the computing device the Media Access Control MAC address of the computing device the host name of the computing device and the like.

According to further specific embodiments of the invention the login event information is received from one of a plurality of network access control services for example directory services such as Virtual Private Network VPN access or the like. Thus the present invention leverages existing network access management systems such that the login scan application can be configured to detect login and login attempts from any known or future known network access management system.

The scan determination routine is additionally configured to provide for scan determination i.e. whether a scan is currently required for the computing device based on the login event information predetermined scan criteria and historical scan data stored in scan database . In this regard the scan determination routine may compare information in the login event information such as host name MAC address or IP address to historical scan data in a scan database . The historical scan data provides at a minimum a listing of computing devices and the date s of the scan s performed. For purposes of the invention herein disclosed the term date may include a specific calendar date and or a specific calendar date and time. Thus the comparison of the login event information to the historical scan data results in a determination of whether the computing device has been previously scanned and if so the date s of the previous scan s .

The scan criteria defines the requirements for conducting a scan. In one embodiment of the invention the scan criteria includes criteria for initiating the remote scan if a determination is made that the computing device has not previously been scanned. In other embodiments the scan criteria may include criteria for initiating the remote scan if a determination is made that the scan date of a last in time scan is outside of a predetermined scan period.

In further specific embodiments of the invention the scan criteria may include criteria associated with previous scan results. In such embodiments the scan database may additionally include scan results associated with previous scans. In specific embodiments of the invention scan results may be associated with each individual prior scan and or a group of previous scans for example the previous five scans and or all of the previous prior scans. For example in one embodiment of the invention scan results may include indication of a non compliant or unacceptable result for a specific task within a previous scan. In another example each scan may result in a scan score which indicates a level of scan compliance or non compliance and a group of previous scans or all of the previous scans may result in an overall scan score. Thus the scan criteria may dictate that additional or less scanning or more frequent or less frequent scanning be performed based on previous scan results. In specific embodiments automatic dynamic customization of the scanning may be implemented to accommodate the previous scan results. Dynamic customization may include more frequent or less frequent scanning of the computing device additional or less scanning than standard scan routine such as configuration of additional or less scan tasks to meet the needs of the previous scan results.

Login scan application additionally includes scan initiation routine that is configured to initiate the scan of the computing device based on the scan determination . The scan initiation routine is configured to initiate one or more of the scan routines based on the scan determination . Embodiments of the invention provide for the scan routines to implement one or more scanning mechanisms. For example port scanning querying of public network interfaces or authenticated queries may be implemented to scan the devices. Port scanning is a method for obtaining an Operating System OS fingerprint of the device by generating a connection attempt on a set of pre specified closed ports. Once the result of the sequence of connection attempts is received it is compared to the database of known OS fingerprints and additional rules may be applied to further refine OS determination and device information such as performed by the Nmap Security Scanner an open source application written by Gordon Lyon. Unlike port knocking which does not require user credentials to scan the device authenticated queries require the scanning entity to have access to user login credentials e.g. login name and password in order to scan the device.

In addition according to specific embodiments the scan initiation routine is configured to engage third party scanning entities to perform the scan on the computing device .

Referring to an alternate embodiment of the invention is depicted in which apparatus is configured for on the fly scan assessment in accordance with additional embodiments of the invention. In such embodiments the login scan application includes scan assessment routine that is configured to assess scan results in near real time to the completion of the scan. In this regard scan results may be assessed concurrent with the scan in order to provide for the scan results in near real time to the completion of the scan. The scan results may identify non compliance and for risk type scan assessments may include but not limited to absence of a critical service disablement of a critical service open share files out of date antivirus files and the like. In specific embodiments the scan results may take the form of one or more scan scores . The scan scores may include an individual scan score for the just completed scan an overall scan score for all of the previous scans a group scan score for a group of previous scans e.g. the last five previous scans or the like or the like.

In traditional scanning systems scan results and specifically scan scoring is performed significantly after the scanning process. For example client based scans may be reported to a system on an ad hoc basis and the scan results and or scan scores are determined on a regularly scheduled basis. In another example conventional client less scans are performed in unison across an enterprise on a regularly scheduled basis and the results and or scoring are determined once all of the computing devices return their respective scan outputs typically in such systems a lengthy period may ensue prior to knowing the results of the scans. In present embodiments of the invention the near real time assessment of scan results and or scan scores provide for a scan alert to be immediately generated and communicated to predetermined parties to notify the parties of the scan results so that appropriate actions can be taken be mitigate the risk posed by the scanned device.

Thus according to specific embodiments login scan application additionally includes scan alert routine configured to generate and initiate communication of a scan alert to one or more designated parties based on the scan results. Thus the scan alert routine may be configured to generate scan alerts based on scan results that show the occurrence of predetermined non compliances and or compliances or predetermined scan scores below or above predetermined scan score limits. Thus scan alerts may be generated based on both negative and positive scan results. The scan administrator may designate the parties to whom the scan alert may be communicated to and either the scan administrator or the designated parties may configure the alert to be communicated by one or more chosen communication means such as email Web Service call Short Message Service SMS text voice mail and or the like.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of apparatus according to embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus is configured to provide login initiated scanning of computing devices. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computing device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of one or more computing devices.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as login scan application and algorithms associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with login scan application and related algorithms sub algorithms sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and communicating scan alerts or reports including scan results to designated entities.

As previously noted the memory of apparatus stores login scan application that is configured to receive login event information determine if scanning is required based on the login event information historical scan data and preconfigured scan criteria and perform the scan as required in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus login scan application includes scan determination routine that is configured to receive login event information associated with a computing device attempting to log into a network. The relevant login event information may include but is not limited to the Internet Protocol IP address of the computing device the host name of the computing device and the like.

The scan determination routine is additionally configured to provide for scan determination i.e. whether a scan is currently required for the computing device based on the login event information predetermined scan criteria and historical scan data stored in scan database . In this regard the scan determination routine may compare information in the login event information such as host name or IP address to historical scan data in a scan database . The historical scan data provides at a minimum a listing of previous scans and the scan date s . In alternate embodiments the historical scan data also includes scan results associated with the prior scan and the level of the scan .

In one embodiment of the invention the scan criteria includes previous scan criteria for initiating the remote scan if a determination is made that the computing device has not previously been scanned. In other embodiments the scan criteria may include scan date criteria for initiating the remote scan if a determination is made that the scan date of a last in time scan is outside of a predetermined scan period. In further specific embodiments of the invention the scan criteria may include scan results criteria associated with previous scan results. In such embodiments the scan database may additionally include scan results associated with previous scans.

In specific embodiments of the invention scan results may be associated with each individual prior scan and or a group of previous scans for example the previous five scans and or all of the previous prior scans. For example in one embodiment of the invention scan results may include indication of a non compliant or unacceptable result for a specific task within a previous scan. In another example each scan may result in a scan score which indicates a level of scan compliance or non compliance and a group of previous scans or all of the previous scans may result in an overall scan score. Thus the scan criteria may dictate that additional or less scanning or more frequent or less frequent scanning be performed based on previous scan results. In specific embodiments automatic dynamic customization of the scanning may be implemented to accommodate the previous scan results. Dynamic customization may include more frequent or less frequent scanning of the computing device additional or less scanning than standard scan routine such as configuration of additional or less scan tasks to meet the needs of the previous scan results.

According to other specific embodiments the scan criteria may include the level of scan required based on scan dates and level of previous scans of the computing device. For example if the computing device is determined to have not been scanned in the past the scan criteria may mandate that a full scan of the device is typically required. A full scan is defined as a deep level scan of most if not all of the compliance and risk characteristics associated with the device. If the computing device has been scanned in the past then the scan criteria may define the level of scanning that currently needs to be performed based on the dates and level of previous scans of the computing device. For example the scan criteria may define that a full scan needs to performed once every seven days once every fourteen days once every thirty day or the like and that a partial or quick scan needs be performed once every day once every other day once every seven days or the like. The partial or quick scan may be configured by the scanning entity to be any portion or subset of the full scan.

Thus for example if the comparison of the login event information to the historical scan data determines that a full scan has not been performed within the past ten days and the scan criteria requires a full scan once every seven days a full scan will be initiated based on the login event. In another example if the comparison of the login event information to the historical scan data determines that a full scan has been performed in the past seven days and that a partial or quick scan has not been performed in the past day and the search scan requires a full scan once every seven days and a partial scan once every day a partial scan will be initiated based on the login event. In yet another example if the comparison of the login event information to the historical scan data determines that a full scan has been performed in the past seven days and that a partial or quick scan has been performed in the past day and the scan criteria requires a full scan once every seven days and a partial scan once every day no scan will be initiated based on the login event. Thus for the purposes of the invention herein disclosed and claimed level of scan may include but is not limited to full scan partial scan and or no scan.

Login scan application additionally includes scan initiation routine that is configured to initiate the scan of the computing device based on the scan determination . The scan initiation routine is configured to initiate one or more of the scan routines based on the scan determination . Additionally login scan application may optionally include scan re start routine that is configured to re start a scan from the point at which the scan was interrupted in the event that the scan fails to complete.

The login scan application may include scan assessment routine that is configured to assess scan results in near real time to the completion of the scan. In this regard scan results may be assessed concurrent with the scan in order to provide for the scan results in near real time to the completion of the scan. The scan results may identify non compliance and for risk type scan assessments may include but not limited to absence of a critical service disablement of a critical service open share files out of date antivirus files and the like. In specific embodiments the scan results may take the form of one or more scan scores . The scan scores may include an individual scan score for the just completed scan an overall scan score for all of the previous scans a group scan score for a group of previous scans e.g. the last five previous scans or the like or the like.

According to further specific embodiments login scan application additionally includes scan alert routine configured to generate and initiate communication of a scan alert to one or more designated parties based on the scan results. Thus the scan alert routine may be configured to generate scan alerts based on scan results that show the occurrence of predetermined non compliances and or compliances or predetermined scan scores below or above predetermined scan score limits. Thus scan alerts may be generated based on both negative and positive scan results. In addition scan alert routine may be configured to generate and communicate scan alerts that notify designated parties of a scan failure in the event that a scan does not complete and the re start routine was unable to rectify the problem.

The login scan application may additionally include subnet identification routine that is configured to identify subnets based on login event information . The login initiated scanning procedures herein disclosed are not limited to the devices residing within predefined network coverage maps. The login initiated scanning of the present invention includes the ability to detect any device logging into the network and thus provides the additional benefit of identifying network coverage gaps referred to herein as subnets by comparing IP addresses in the login event information with the existing map to determine if the IP address falls within a known subnet. If the IP address does not fall within a known sub network a new sub network is identified and a subnet alert may be generated and communicated to designated parties.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for login initiated scanning of computing devices and on the fly scan assessment in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The method begins at Start Event and at Event login event information is received. As previously noted the login event may correspond with a successful login or an unsuccessful login. At Event an attempt is made to identify the computing device by comparing the login event information specifically the host name MAC address and or IP address to information in scan database.

At Decision a determination is made as to whether the computing device has been scanned previously. This determination is made by comparing the host name included in the login event information to the scan database. If the determination is made that the computing has previously been scanned at Decision a determination is made as to whether the date of the previous scan warrants a current scan. Scan criteria preconfigured by the scanning party administrator or the like will define the required scan period i.e. the period of time in which a scan is required to be performed. The determination is made by comparing the scan criteria to the scan database to determine if the last in time scan was performed with the required scan period. If the determination is made that the last in time scan was performed within the required scan period at Event the method ends with no scan being performed.

If the determination is made that that the computing device has not been previously scanned or the determination is made that last in time scan was performed outside of the required scan period at Decision a determination is made as to whether the date and or results of previous scans warrant priority scanning. If the results of previous scans indicate that the device is a high risk or the previous scan date is beyond a predetermined priority threshold at Event a high priority scan of the computing device is performed. The high priority scan dictates that the scan be placed in a high priority queue that provides for the scan to be initiated when the next scanning thread becomes available. If the results of previous scans or the previous scan date do not warrant priority scanning at Event a normal priority scan of the computing device is scheduled. The normal priority scan dictates that the scan be placed in a normal priority queue that provides for the scan to be initiated based on first in first out principles.

At Event on the fly scan results are assessed. The scan results may be assessed concurrently with the scan operation and or proximate to the completion of the scan so that the scan assessment is accomplished in near real time to the completion of the scan process. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the scan results pose a high risk threat or warrant a scan alert. The high risk threat or warranting of a scan alert may be dictated by a scan score or overall scan score above a predetermined threshold or the determination of the occurrence of one or more predetermined high risk non compliances identified during the scan. If the scan results pose a high risk and or the scan results warrant a scan alert at Event a scan alert is automatically generated and communicated to designated parties. Once the alert is generated and communicated at Event the scan results are stored in the scan database. If the scan results do not pose the necessary high risk or otherwise do not warrant a scan alert at Event the scan results are stored in the scan database.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for login initiated remote scanning of computer devices. The present invention detects login or login attempts to the network via existing access management systems. The login data provides information that identifies the device so that the device can be checked against a scan database to determine if and when the previous scan occurred. Based on the findings in the scan database determinations are made to perform full scans partial quick scans or no scan at all. Additionally the level of scanning can be based on previous scan results which may dictate customized scanning. In addition dates of last in time scans and or scan results may dictate the priority of the impending scan. Further embodiments provide for assessing risk such as risk scoring or the like concurrently or in near real time with the completion of the scan so that alerts may be communicated to notify designated parties for the purpose of instituting corrective actions such as disabling applications or devices proximate in time to the scan process.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

