---

title: Adaptively and accurately seeking a video frame of a video sequence rendered on a data processing device
abstract: A method includes initiating, through an interface of a multimedia application executing on a data processing device, seeking of a desired frame of a video sequence rendered thereon. The desired frame corresponds to a desired point in time. The method also includes causing, through a set of instructions associated with a processor of the data processing device and/or an operating system executing thereon, the processor to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired frame following the initiation. Further, the method includes rendering, through the processor and on the interface, frames of the video sequence after a predeterminable threshold time period at a lower frame rate than a frame rate of the video sequence otherwise at least until the desired frame is decoded and rendered when the desired frame is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08644691&OS=08644691&RS=08644691
owner: Nvidia Corporation
number: 08644691
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This disclosure relates generally to data processing devices and more particularly to adaptively and accurately seeking a video frame of a video sequence rendered on a data processing device.

A data processing device e.g. a personal computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a mobile device such as a mobile phone may have video files stored therein. The video files may be rendered on a user interface of a multimedia application e.g. Windows Media Player on the data processing device. A user of the data processing device may want to skip to a different point in time of a video sequence associated with a video file during rendering thereof. When the user initiates the skip a desired video frame may not be present at the actual point in time. Therefore the video sequence may resume either before or after the actual point in time desired.

An accurate seek process may ensure that the video sequence resumes from the desired point in time. As part of the aforementioned process a video frame in a temporal past relative to the desired point in time may be chosen and decoding may start from the aforementioned chosen frame. Here none of the video frames may be rendered until the desired point in time is reached thereby contributing to a lengthened process. A time required to accomplish the accurate seek may be entirely dependent on a position of the video frame in the temporal past. Therefore the accurate seek process may be unreliable.

Disclosed are a method a device and or a system of adaptively and accurately seeking a video frame of a video sequence rendered on a data processing device.

In one aspect a method includes initiating through an interface of a multimedia application executing on a data processing device seeking of a desired frame of a video sequence rendered on the interface. The desired frame corresponds to a desired point in time. The method also includes causing through a set of instructions associated with a processor of the data processing device communicatively coupled to a memory thereof and or an operating system executing on the data processing device the processor to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired frame following the initiation of the seeking of the desired frame. Further the method includes rendering through the processor and on the interface frames of the video sequence after a predeterminable threshold time period at a lower frame rate than a frame rate of the video sequence otherwise at least until the desired frame is decoded and rendered when the desired frame is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period.

In another aspect a non transitory medium readable through a data processing device and comprising instructions embodied therein that are executable through the data processing device is disclosed. The non transitory medium includes instructions to initiate through an interface of a multimedia application executing on the data processing device seeking of a desired frame of a video sequence rendered on the interface. The desired frame corresponds to a desired point in time. The non transitory medium also includes instructions to cause through a set of instructions associated with a processor of the data processing device communicatively coupled to a memory thereof and or an operating system executing on the data processing device the processor to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired frame following the initiation of the seeking of the desired frame.

Further the non transitory medium includes instructions to render through the processor and on the interface frames of the video sequence after a predeterminable threshold time period at a lower frame rate than a frame rate of the video sequence otherwise at least until the desired frame is decoded and rendered when the desired frame is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period.

In yet another aspect a data processing device includes a memory including a video file therein a processor communicatively coupled to the memory and an interface of a multimedia application executing on the data processing device to enable initiation of seeking of a desired frame of a video sequence related to the video file when rendered thereon. The desired frame corresponds to a desired point in time. The data processing device also includes a driver component associated with the processor. The driver component and or an operating system executing on the data processing device are configured to cause the processor to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired frame following the initiation of the seeking of the desired frame.

The processor is further configured to render on the interface frames of the video sequence after a predeterminable threshold time period at a lower frame rate than a frame rate of the video sequence otherwise at least until the desired frame is decoded and rendered when the desired frame is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Example embodiments as described below may be used to provide a method a device and or a system of adaptively and accurately seeking a video frame of a video sequence rendered on a data processing device. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

In one or more embodiments output data associated with processing through processor may be input to a multimedia processing unit configured to perform encoding decoding associated with the data. In one or more embodiments the output of multimedia processing unit may be rendered on a display unit e.g. Liquid Crystal Display LCD display Cathode Ray Tube CRT monitor through a multimedia interface configured to convert data to an appropriate format required by display unit .

It is obvious that an operating system may execute on data processing device . shows operating system as being stored in memory e.g. non volatile memory . In one or more embodiments data processing device may execute a multimedia application e.g. Windows Media Player on processor shows multimedia application as being stored in memory to be executed on processor . In one or more embodiments multimedia application may utilize an Application Programming Interface API of a multimedia framework to be discussed with regard to in order to execute processing associated therewith.

File reader may be configured to enable reading of data e.g. video file multimedia file from a source. Parser e.g. Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG parser Audio Video Interleave AVI parser may parse a stream of the data into constituent parts thereof. Decoder may decode a compressed or an encoded version of the data and renderer may transmit the decoded data to a destination e.g. a rendering device . The rendering process may also include processes such as displaying multimedia on display unit playing an audio file on a soundcard writing the data to a file etc. It is obvious that the aforementioned engines or modules are merely shown for illustrative purposes and that variations therein are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments.

Further shows an adaptive accurate seek engine e.g. a software engine to control other engines of engine layer . In one or more embodiments once user moves seek bar to a desired point in time of a video sequence adaptive accurate seek engine may cause decoder to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to a frame corresponding to the desired point in time. In one or more embodiments if the frame corresponding to the desired point in time is not decoded within a threshold time period e.g. 300 ms that can be predetermined then adaptive accurate seek engine may cause adaptive accurate seek to be triggered. In one or more embodiments as part of the adaptive accurate seek process decoder may start rendering frames after the threshold frame time however the rendering may occur at a lower frame rate as discussed below.

In one or more embodiments operation may involve checking e.g. through processor as to whether the timestamp of a current frame encountered corresponds to a time that is less than the desired point in time. In one or more embodiments if no the seek process may be ended. In one or more embodiments if yes operation may involve checking as to whether the time elapsed based on the timer is less than the predeterminable threshold time period. In one or more embodiments if the result of operation is a no operation may involve skipping rendering of the decoded frame and setting the time taken to decode the other one or more frame s T Tcan also be seen as the time spent in decoding the frame corresponding to the desired point in time as the time taken to decode the other one or more frame s divided by a frame count that corresponds to the frame rate. In one or more embodiments the aforementioned frame count may correspond to the number of frames skipped without rendering following decoding thereof. shows an example table including the frame count corresponding to the frame rate. The aforementioned table for example may be stored in memory to be referenced by processor .

It is obvious that the abovementioned division of the time taken to decode the one or more other frames by the frame count may serve to average it. In one or more embodiments if the result of operation is a yes operation may involve skipping the frame decoded or discarding the aforementioned frame and incrementing the time spent in decoding the frame corresponding to the desired point in time with the current frame decode time. In one or more embodiments operation may also involve incrementing the frame count discussed above by 1. In one or more embodiments control may then be passed onto operation where the next frame is decoded and the processes repeated until the frame corresponding to the desired point in time is decoded or the predeterminable threshold time period elapses.

In one or more embodiments as discussed above if the frame corresponding to the desired point in time is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period rendering of the frames may be initiated e.g. through adaptive accurate seek engine after the predeterminable threshold time period the rendering may however be at a lower frame rate. Referring back to in one or more embodiments operation may involve calculating the adaptive frame count N adaptively calculating the number of frames to skip from T see operation as N 1 FR T where FR is the frame rate. In one or more embodiments operation may also involve determining the frames to skip N as the maximum of Nand the frame count obtained from table of corresponding to FR or the frame rate . In one or more embodiments control may then pass onto operation which may involve sub processes as described in .

In one or more embodiments if the result of operation is a yes then operation may involve checking as to whether Nis less than N. The aforementioned relation will always be false the first time see operation . In one or more embodiments if the result of operation is a no operation may involve rendering the frame along with setting Nto 0. Control may then be passed from operation to operation . In one or more embodiments if the result of operation is yes operation may then involve skipping the frame or discarding the frame without rendering thereof and moving onto decoding the next frame control again may pass to operation . It is obvious that the adaptive accurate seek process may be terminated upon rendering of the frame corresponding to the desired point in time. Further it is obvious that parameters such as the predeterminable threshold time period and increase decrease thereof and table may be modified based on user e.g. user experience.

Thus in one or more embodiments frames following the predeterminable threshold time period may be rendered at a lower frame rate. In one or more embodiments the adaptive seek process discussed above may be faster and more reliable than an accurate seek process where decoding may start from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired point in time but none of the frames would be rendered till the desired point in time is reached. In one or more embodiments the adaptive seek process discussed above may also be more accurate than a process where a video frame closest to the desired point in time is sought and decoding starts therefrom.

It is obvious that adaptive accurate seek engine may be implemented as a driver component instead of a module or an engine executing on processor and stored in memory for execution through processor . In this case the moving of seek bar by user may enable the driver component to initiate the adaptive accurate seek process discussed above in conjunction with processor . Other possible variations are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments. Further user may be provided the option to enable and or disable the adaptive accurate seek process.

It is obvious that the engines of multimedia framework may be executed through processor . The driver component or equivalent software thereof discussed above may be stored in memory to be installed on data processing device after a download through the Internet. Alternately an external memory may be utilized therefor. Also instructions associated with the driver component may be embodied on a non transitory medium readable through data processing device such as a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disc DVD a Blu ray disc a floppy disk or a diskette etc. The aforementioned instructions may be executable through data processing device .

The set of instructions associated with the driver component or equivalent software thereof is not limited to specific embodiments discussed above and may for example be implemented in operating system an application program e.g. multimedia application a foreground or a background process a network stack or any combination thereof. Other variations are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments discussed herein.

In one or more embodiments operation may involve causing through a set of instructions associated with processor of data processing device communicatively coupled to memory thereof and or operating system executing on data processing device processor to decode frames of the video sequence from a closest frame in a temporal past relative to the desired frame following the initiation of the seeking of the desired frame. In one or more embodiments operation may then involve rendering through processor and on the interface frames of the video sequence after a predeterminable threshold time period at a lower frame rate than a frame rate of the video sequence otherwise at least until the desired frame is decoded and rendered when the desired frame is not decoded within the predeterminable threshold time period.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices and modules described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium . For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. Application Specific Integrated Circuitry ASIC and or Digital Signal Processor DSP circuitry .

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. data processing device and may be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations .

Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

