---

title: Technician control system
abstract: Technician control, in which a control system is configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for work orders being handled by technicians. Multiple technician devices are each associated with one or more technicians, are configured to communicate, over a network, with the control system, and also are configured to provide output in response to communications that are received from the control system and that are related to the scheduling and dispatch operations performed by the control system. A set of scheduling configuration options may be pre-defined and user input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options may be received. A scheduling application used by the control system to perform scheduling operations may be configured based on configuration data that reflects the weighting and scheduling operations may be performed using the configured scheduling application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08660877&OS=08660877&RS=08660877
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08660877
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20121126
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 490 730 filed Jun. 24 2009 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 481 046 filed Jun. 9 2009 now allowed. Both of these prior applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Scheduling and dispatch services may help to manage a mobile technician workforce. A dispatch system may be used for managing mobile technicians working with home security plumbing taxi services courier emergency pest control natural gas cable electrical services telecommunications satellite television HVAC heating ventilating and air conditioning appliance repair other utility services and other types of installation repair or other services.

In one aspect a technician control system includes a control system configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for work orders being handled by technicians associated with a client at least one electronic data store configured to store data associated with the client and multiple technician devices that are each associated with one or more technicians configured to communicate over a network with the control system and configured to provide output in response to communications that are received from the control system and that are related to the scheduling and dispatch operations performed by the control system. The control system includes at least one processor configured to perform operations that include aggregating a set of pre defined scheduling configuration options. At least one scheduling configuration option represents a scheduling goal and impacts multiple parameters of a scheduling application when selected. The operations also include receiving from the client user input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options and storing in the at least one electronic data store and in association with the client configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options. The operations further include based on the configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options configuring for the client a scheduling application used by the control system to perform scheduling operations for the client. The configuration includes modification of more parameters of the scheduling application than scheduling configuration options related to the user input. In addition the operations include performing scheduling operations for the client using the configured scheduling application.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the operations may include receiving user input selecting a subset of the scheduling configuration options. The selected subset may represent scheduling goals on which the user would like to focus in performing scheduling operations. The operations also may include identifying scheduling rules that relate to the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options tailoring the identified scheduling rules based on the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options and configuring for the client the scheduling application to use the tailored scheduling rules.

In some implementations the operations may include receiving user input setting weighting parameters for one or more of the scheduling configuration options. In these implementations the operations may include mapping the weighting parameters for the one or more of the scheduling configuration options to a set of rules and configuration variables and adapting in accordance with the weighting parameters the scheduling application based on the set of rules and configuration variables. The operations also may include receiving from a client system associated with the client data defining unscheduled work orders associated with the client and assigning using the configured scheduling application the unscheduled work orders to one or more of the technicians associated with the client.

In some examples the operations may include identifying technicians supervised by a particular supervisor that uses a particular device determining progress of scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians and enabling the supervisor to view data reflecting the determined progress of scheduled work orders. In these examples the operations may include monitoring progress of the scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians and based on the monitoring detecting whether a schedule or quality issue occurs in the scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians. In response to detecting that a schedule or quality issue has occurred in at least one of the scheduled work orders being handled by at least one of the identified technicians a message may be sent to the particular device used by the particular supervisor to alert the supervisor of the detected issue and the supervisor may be assisted in taking action to correct the detected issue.

In addition the operations may include comparing progress of a particular work order being handled by a particular technician to an expected progress for the particular work order and based on the comparison determining whether the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is behind the expected progress by more than a threshold amount. The operations also may include detecting an issue in response to a determination that the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is behind the expected progress by more than the threshold amount and detecting that an issue does not exist in response to a determination that the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is not behind the expected progress by more than the threshold amount.

In some examples the operations further may include sending to the particular device used by the particular supervisor a message to alert the supervisor of the detected issue comprises sending a message that indicates that the particular technician is behind schedule in performing the particular work order that provides an indication of the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician and that provides an indication of the expected progress. In these examples the operations may include enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by communicating with the particular technician enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by receiving directions to attend the particular work order and enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by sending another technician to assist the particular technician with the particular work order.

The operations may include determining an expected amount of time remaining for a particular technician to complete a particular work order being handled by the particular technician determining a travel time between a location of the particular work order and a location of a next work order scheduled for completion by the particular technician and identifying a scheduled start time of the next work order scheduled for completion by the particular technician. The operations also may include analyzing the expected amount of time remaining for the particular technician to complete the particular work order and the determined travel time with respect to the scheduled start time of the next work order and based on the analysis determining whether the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order. The operations further may include detecting an issue in response to a determination that the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order and detecting that an issue does not exist in response to a determination that the particular technician is not likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order.

In some implementations the operations may include sending to the particular device used by the particular supervisor a message to alert the supervisor of the detected issue comprises sending a message that indicates that the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order that provides an indication of the expected amount of time remaining for the particular technician to complete the particular work order that provides an indication of the determined travel time and that provides an indication of the scheduled start time of the next work order. In these implementations the operations may include enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by rescheduling the next work order for the particular technician and enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by communicating with a customer corresponding to the next work order.

In some examples the control system may be configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for multiple different clients the at least one electronic data store may be configured to maintain segregated data areas for each of the multiple different clients control access to the segregated areas using admission rights and store configuration data for each of the multiple different clients and the control system may be further configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for each of the multiple different clients in a configured manner that leverages the stored configuration data for each of the multiple different clients. In these examples the operations may include establishing a particular client and defining in the at least one electronic data store a segregated data area for the particular client. The segregated data area may be separate from other data areas associated with other clients of the control system. The operations also may include setting admission rights and privileges for the particular client to enable users associated with the particular client to access the segregated data area enabling the particular client to configure standard pre defined assets and applications of the control system and storing configuration data for the particular client that reflects configurations to the standard pre defined assets and applications made by the particular client.

In these examples the operations may include receiving a request from a technician device identifying from among the multiple different clients a client associated with the technician device comparing admission rights of the technician device to admission rights of the identified client and based on the comparison determining whether the technician device is authorized to perform the request. In response to a determination that the technician device is not authorized to perform the request the request may be denied. In response to a determination that the technician device is authorized to perform the request the request may be handled using standard pre defined assets and applications based on configurations defined by the identified client and data related to the request may be stored in a segregated data area associated with the identified client.

In another aspect a computer implemented method includes aggregating at a control system a pre defined set of scheduling configuration options. At least one scheduling configuration option represents a scheduling goal and impacts multiple parameters of a scheduling application when selected. The method also includes receiving from a client user input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options and storing in at least one electronic data store of the control system and in association with the client configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options. The method further includes based on the configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options configuring for the client using at least one processor of the control system a scheduling application used by the control system to perform scheduling operations for the client. The configuration includes modification of more parameters of the scheduling application than scheduling configuration options related to the user input. In addition the method includes performing using at least one processor of the control system scheduling operations for the client using the configured scheduling application.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include receiving user input selecting a subset of the scheduling configuration options the selected subset representing scheduling goals on which the user would like to focus in performing scheduling operations. The method also may include identifying scheduling rules that relate to the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options tailoring the identified scheduling rules based on the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options and configuring for the client the scheduling application to use the tailored scheduling rules.

In some examples the method may include receiving user input setting weightings parameters for one or more of the scheduling configuration options. In these examples the method may include mapping the weighting parameters for the one or more of the scheduling configuration options to a set of rules and configuration variables and adapting in accordance with the weighting parameters the scheduling application based on the set of rules and configuration variables. The method also may include receiving from a client system associated with the client data defining unscheduled work orders associated with the client and assigning using the configured scheduling application the unscheduled work orders to one or more of technicians associated with the client.

In some implementations the method may include identifying technicians supervised by a particular supervisor that uses a particular device determining progress of scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians and enabling the supervisor to view data reflecting the determined progress of scheduled work orders. In these implementations the method may include monitoring progress of the scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians and based on the monitoring detecting whether a schedule or quality issue occurs in the scheduled work orders for each of the identified technicians. In response to detecting that a schedule or quality issue has occurred in at least one of the scheduled work orders being handled by at least one of the identified technicians a message may be sent to the particular device used by the particular supervisor to alert the supervisor of the detected issue and the supervisor may be assisted in taking action to correct the detected issue.

In these implementations the method may include comparing progress of a particular work order being handled by a particular technician to an expected progress for the particular work order and based on the comparison determining whether the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is behind the expected progress by more than a threshold amount. The method also may include detecting an issue in response to a determination that the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is behind the expected progress by more than the threshold amount and detecting that an issue does not exist in response to a determination that the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician is not behind the expected progress by more than the threshold amount. The method further may include sending a message that indicates that the particular technician is behind schedule in performing the particular work order that provides an indication of the progress of the particular work order being handled by the particular technician and that provides an indication of the expected progress. In addition the method may include enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by communicating with the particular technician enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by receiving directions to attend the particular work order and enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by sending another technician to assist the particular technician with the particular work order.

In these implementations the method may include determining an expected amount of time remaining for a particular technician to complete a particular work order being handled by the particular technician determining a travel time between a location of the particular work order and a location of a next work order scheduled for completion by the particular technician and identifying a scheduled start time of the next work order scheduled for completion by the particular technician. The method also may include analyzing the expected amount of time remaining for the particular technician to complete the particular work order and the determined travel time with respect to the scheduled start time of the next work order and based on the analysis determining whether the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order. The method further may include detecting an issue in response to a determination that the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order and detecting that an issue does not exist in response to a determination that the particular technician is not likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order. In addition the method may include sending a message that indicates that the particular technician is likely to miss the scheduled start time of the next work order that provides an indication of the expected amount of time remaining for the particular technician to complete the particular work order that provides an indication of the determined travel time and that provides an indication of the scheduled start time of the next work order. The method further may include enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by rescheduling the next work order for the particular technician and enabling the supervisor to respond to the message by communicating with a customer corresponding to the next work order.

In some examples the method may include establishing a particular client and defining in the at least one electronic data store a segregated data area for the particular client. The segregated data area may be separate from other data areas associated with other clients of the control system. In these examples the method may include setting admission rights and privileges for the particular client to enable users associated with the particular client to access the segregated data area enabling the particular client to configure standard pre defined assets and applications of the control system and storing configuration data for the particular client that reflects configurations to the standard pre defined assets and applications made by the particular client.

In these examples the method may include receiving a request from a technician device identifying from among multiple different clients a client associated with the technician device comparing admission rights of the technician device to admission rights of the identified client and based on the comparison determining whether the technician device is authorized to perform the request. In response to a determination that the technician device is not authorized to perform the request the request may be denied. In response to a determination that the technician device is authorized to perform the request the request may be handled using standard pre defined assets and applications based on configurations defined by the identified client and data related to the request may be stored in a segregated data area associated with the identified client.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations that include aggregating at a control system a pre defined set of scheduling configuration options. At least one scheduling configuration option represents a scheduling goal and impacts multiple parameters of a scheduling application when selected. The operations also includes receiving from a client user input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options and storing in at least one electronic data store of the control system and in association with the client configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options. The operations further includes based on the configuration data that reflects the weighting of at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options configuring for the client using at least one processor of the control system a scheduling application used by the control system to perform scheduling operations for the client. The configuration includes modification of more parameters of the scheduling application than scheduling configuration options related to the user input. In addition the operations include performing using at least one processor of the control system scheduling operations for the client using the configured scheduling application.

In another aspect a technician control system includes a control system configured to control processing of work orders being handled by technicians in each of multiple different industries at least one electronic data store configured to store work order data and work flow data for each of the multiple different industries and multiple technician devices that are each associated with one or more technicians configured to communicate over a network with the control system and configured to provide output in response to communications that are received from the control system and that are related to the processing of work orders. The control system includes at least one processor configured to perform operations that include defining in the at least one electronic data store work order data for work orders corresponding to each of the multiple different industries based on user input and defining in the at least one electronic data store work flow data for the work orders corresponding to each of the multiple different industries based on user input. The operations also include configuring the technician control system to leverage the defined work order data and the defined work flow data in performing work order processing for technicians in the multiple different industries and enabling processing of work orders for technicians in the multiple different industries using the defined work order data and the defined work flow data.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the operations may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and establishing a second client that manages technicians that operate in a second industry that is different than the first industry the second client being different than the first client. In this example the operations also may include determining the first industry associated with the first client and determining the second industry associated with the second client. The operations further may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the first client and configuring the technician control system to leverage second pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for technicians managed by the second client. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client and the second pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the second client and may be different than the first pre defined work order and work flow data.

The operations may include defining prior to establishing the first client and in the at least one electronic data store the first pre defined work order and work flow data based on input received from an entity operating the technician control system. The entity operating the technician control system may be different than the first client. The operations also may include defining prior to establishing the second client and in the at least one electronic data store the second pre defined work order and work flow data based on input received from the entity operating the technician control system. The entity operating the technician control system also may be different than the second client.

In some implementations the operations may include receiving a request associated with a work order from a technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data related to handling the work order based on an industry associated with the technician device. In these implementations the operations may include controlling user interface display on the technician device and data collection on the technician device related to the work order based on the accessed work order data and controlling processing flow related to handling the work order on the technician device based on the accessed work flow data.

Further the operations may include determining from among the multiple different industries the industry associated with the technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for the determined industry. In addition the operations may include identifying from among multiple clients a client associated with the technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for which the technician control system has been configured to leverage for the identified client.

In some examples the operations may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and establishing a second client that manages technicians that operate in the first industry. The second client may be different than the first client. In these example the operations also may include determining the first industry associated with the first client and determining the first industry associated with the second client. The operations further may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the first client and configuring the technician control system to leverage the first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the second client. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client and the first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the second client.

In some implementations the operations may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and technicians that operate in a second industry that is different than the first industry and determining the first industry associated with the first client and the second industry associated with the first client. In these implementations the operations may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for the technicians managed by the first client that operate in the first industry and to leverage second pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for the technicians managed by the first client that operate in the second industry. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may be different than the second pre defined work order and work flow data and both the first pre defined work order and work flow data and the second pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client.

Further the operations may include controlling user interface display and data collection for technician devices using the defined work order data and controlling work flow processing for the technician devices using the defined work flow data. The operations also may include sending the defined work order data and the defined work flow data to technician devices to enable the technician devices to process work orders.

In another aspect a computer implemented method includes defining in at least one electronic data store of a technician control system work order data for work orders corresponding to each of multiple different industries based on user input and defining in the at least one electronic data store of the technician control system work flow data for the work orders corresponding to each of the multiple different industries based on user input. The method also includes configuring the technician control system to leverage the defined work order data and the defined work flow data in performing work order processing for technicians in the multiple different industries and enabling processing of work orders for technicians in the multiple different industries using the defined work order data and the defined work flow data.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and establishing a second client that manages technicians that operate in a second industry that is different than the first industry the second client being different than the first client. In this example the method also may include determining the first industry associated with the first client and determining the second industry associated with the second client. The method further may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the first client and configuring the technician control system to leverage second pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for technicians managed by the second client. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client and the second pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the second client and may be different than the first pre defined work order and work flow data.

The method may include defining prior to establishing the first client and in the at least one electronic data store the first pre defined work order and work flow data based on input received from an entity operating the technician control system. The entity operating the technician control system may be different than the first client. The method also may include defining prior to establishing the second client and in the at least one electronic data store the second pre defined work order and work flow data based on input received from the entity operating the technician control system. The entity operating the technician control system may be different than the second client.

In some implementations the method may include receiving a request associated with a work order from a technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data related to handling the work order based on an industry associated with the technician device. In these implementations the method may include controlling user interface display on the technician device and data collection on the technician device related to the work order based on the accessed work order data and controlling processing flow related to handling the work order on the technician device based on the accessed work flow data.

Further the method may include determining from among the multiple different industries the industry associated with the technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for the determined industry. In addition the method may include identifying from among multiple clients a client associated with the technician device and accessing from the at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for which the technician control system has been configured to leverage for the identified client.

In some examples the method may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and establishing a second client that manages technicians that operate in the first industry the second client being different than the first client. In these example the method also may include determining the first industry associated with the first client and determining the first industry associated with the second client. The method further may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the first client and configuring the technician control system to leverage the first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for technicians managed by the second client. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client and the first pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the second client.

In some implementations the method may include establishing a first client that manages technicians that operate in a first industry and technicians that operate in a second industry that is different than the first industry and determining the first industry associated with the first client and the second industry associated with the first client. In these implementations the method may include configuring the technician control system to leverage first pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for the technicians managed by the first client that operate in the first industry and to leverage second pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for the technicians managed by the first client that operate in the second industry. The first pre defined work order and work flow data may be different than the second pre defined work order and work flow data and both the first pre defined work order and work flow data and the second pre defined work order and work flow data may have been defined in the technician control system prior to establishing the first client. Further the method may include controlling user interface display and data collection for technician devices using the defined work order data and controlling work flow processing for the technician devices using the defined work flow data.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations. The operations include defining in at least one electronic data store of a technician control system work order data for work orders corresponding to each of multiple different industries based on user input and defining in the at least one electronic data store of the technician control system work flow data for the work orders corresponding to each of the multiple different industries based on user input. The operations also include configuring the technician control system to leverage the defined work order data and the defined work flow data in performing work order processing for technicians in the multiple different industries and enabling processing of work orders for technicians in the multiple different industries using the defined work order data and the defined work flow data.

Implementations of any of the techniques described throughout the disclosure may include a method or process a system or instructions stored on a computer readable storage device. The details of particular implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features will be apparent from the following description including the drawings and the claims.

A technician control system enables multiple clients to leverage integrated technician control applications and configure the integrated technician control applications to client specifications. For instance the technician control system may include a scheduling application that prioritizes schedules and use of resources based on client configuration settings. To establish configured settings a client may provide user input weighting a set of pre defined scheduling configuration options. A scheduling configuration option may represent a scheduling goal that impacts multiple parameters of the scheduling application. The technician control system automatically configures the scheduling application by modifying parameters of the scheduling application based on the weighting of the pre defined scheduling configuration options provided by the client.

The technician control system provides a set of system application programming interfaces API s for scheduling dispatch and other aspects of managing a mobile technician workforce. The technician control system may automate some or all scheduling and dispatch processes may help reduce human error may increase consistency across multiple manual schedulers may improve schedule efficiency by using automated processes rather than manual scheduling and may help minimize cost while maintaining customer service.

The technician control system may be configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for multiple different clients and possibly for clients related to different industries. The technician control system includes an electronic data store which is configured to maintain segregated data areas for each of the clients to control access to the segregated areas using admission rights and to store configuration data for each of the clients. Scheduling and dispatch operations may be controlled for each of the clients in a configured manner that leverages the stored configuration data for each of the clients. Multiple field technicians may be associated with e.g. work for a particular client. Also multiple dispatcher and scheduler users may control dispatching and scheduling operations for one or more clients leveraging the integrated scheduling and dispatch applications.

One or more schedulers may use a scheduling application to define work schedules for some or all of the field technicians associated with a client. The scheduler performs scheduling operations for the client using the scheduling application to assign unscheduled work orders to one or more of the field technicians associated with the client. In some implementations work orders are scheduled automatically by the scheduling application . The scheduler can review the generated schedule and make changes if desired.

Historical work orders may be monitored and future work orders may be forecasted to help plan the number and skills of technicians that may be needed for a particular client. In some implementations data defining unscheduled work orders associated with a client may be received from a client system. In other implementations data defining work orders may be received from a call center component of the technician control system and or from an online customer appointment reservation component of the technician control system . Customers may make appointments in advance or may schedule an appointment for same day service.

Scheduling performed by the scheduling application may be configured for each client. Each client may weigh each of a set of scheduling configuration options where a scheduling configuration option represents a high level scheduling goal e.g. minimize overtime minimize appointment window . Configuration data that reflects the client weighting of scheduling configuration options may be stored in an electronic data store and the scheduling application may be configured based on the configuration data. For example one or more parameters and or configuration variables of the scheduling application may be modified for performing scheduling operations for the client based on the configuration data.

The scheduling application prioritizes schedules and use of resources based on client configuration settings. For example a schedule may maximize billable hours and number of service calls while avoiding overtime. Technicians may be matched to work orders based for example on skills experience licensure parts on hand distance to the work site job priority and or union status. The scheduling application may for example use street level routing to determine optimal routes for field technicians in order to minimize drive time and fuel consumption. The scheduling application may use zoning where a technician is limited to performing work orders within a defined geographic area. A schedule may be prepared for field technicians on a daily basis or on some other frequency.

One or more dispatchers may use a dispatch application to convey schedule change information to the field technicians and to manage alerts and reminders related to each of the scheduled appointments. The dispatcher views the work orders happening during the current day and manages changes that may occur due to schedule deviations e.g. technician illness technician stuck in traffic . The dispatcher may view a real time status interface which provides a filterable view of all field technicians and work orders out in the field such as in a list or displayed on a map. A GPS Global Positioning Satellite component of technician device may pinpoint the location of a field technician .

The dispatch application may be configured for each client based on stored configuration data. The dispatch application may be used to respond to events that occur throughout the work day. For example work orders may be assigned or reassigned to balance assignments e.g. either manually by the dispatcher or automatically by the dispatch application . A work order may be reassigned if a field technician is delayed on a work order and may not arrive on time for the next scheduled work order. Field technicians may be assigned or reassigned to high priority or emergency work orders. Field technicians may be manually or automatically rerouted based on dynamic traffic condition information. A field technician may be assigned to a work order located in an adjacent zone if the dispatcher and or the dispatching application determine that the assigned field technician is the most optimal choice. In response to work order completion parts inventory may be maintained and resupply of parts use for repair may be initiated. The dispatcher may communicate through voice and or electronic communication in real time or non real time with field technicians as needed.

A field technician may use the technician device to communicate with the dispatcher and or other technicians e.g. a supervisor . The technician device includes a mobile infrastructure which enables the technician device to communicate with a server mobile infrastructure over a network . The mobile infrastructure allows the field technicians to work in an intermittently connected environment e.g. work either online of offline enables the software running on the technician device to be updated remotely and manages security protocols and authentication for technician devices the network and one or more server devices.

The network may be one or more public or private wireless and or wired networks such as the Internet or a WAN wide area network . The network may be an IP Internet Protocol based network using for example technologies such as UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System CDMA Code Division Multiple Access GPRS General Packet Radio Service or EVDO Evolution Data Optimized . The mobile infrastructure may be configured to detect and to switch to the most efficient network based on a set of pre configured rules.

The technician device may be a handheld PC personal computer wireless handheld device laptop smart phone desktop computer or other device. The technician device executes a device application . The device application may include various functionality. For example the device application may include functionality related to work orders such as providing the ability to display a view of the current day s completed and yet to be completed work orders. Work orders may be displayed in a filtered list. Work orders may also be displayed in a map view with map markers indicating locations of assigned work orders. Driving directions may be provided informing the field technician how to get from one work order location to the next work order location.

A field technician may select a particular work order to view additional details about the work order such as details about the customer involved field assets and tasks to be performed related to the work order. A work order completion interface may be used for validation of work order details at the point of completion of a work order. While in the field a field technician may be able to create a new work order using the technician device . Information about the new work order may be transmitted to the dispatch application and the new work order may be scheduled.

A document library feature may provide a field technician with a library of online manuals that may be referenced when servicing work orders. For example manuals for various equipment that the field technician may use or service may be stored on the technician device . As another example the document library may include regulatory compliance information or information on access guidelines for accessing equipment at a customer site The document library may be updated as new versions of documents become available e.g. updated manuals or manuals for new equipment . The device application may also provide the field technician with a knowledge base of trouble shooting job aids. The knowledge base may provide field access to electronic trouble shooting documents describing how to debug various equipment and assess problems. For example a field technician may select a document from a list of documents associated with a particular item of equipment or a field technician may select a document from a list of documents displayed in a search results list. The document library information may be accessed from electronic storage on the technician device or may be received over the network from another electronic device e.g. from the dispatch application from another technician device from a web server etc. .

The device application may provide timesheet functionality. For example field technician login logout and status changes may be captured to automate timesheet entry and completion. As another example timesheets may accurately capture the duration and task break down of a work order. A timesheet application may review timestamps from each status change e.g. accepted traveling to site on site completed and then present these timestamps to the field technician for verification. A supervisor interface may be displayed on the device application allowing a supervisor to view the field locations of allocated field technicians to change assignments of work orders and to generally respond to schedule and quality issues. The technician control system may include various administrative functions. Administrative functions may be provided by the scheduling application the dispatch application or by one or more other integrated components of the technician control system . For example account and user information for field technicians schedulers and dispatchers may be managed and maintained. Work order types and configuration information may be managed. Document libraries and other reference information may be updated. Other administrative features may include device management reporting customer data management maintaining information on equipment at customer locations parts inventory control historical service data access and routing and GIS geographic information system updates e.g. due to new roads or road construction .

The input module may be used to input any type of information related to performing technician control. The input module may input configuration data or information about unscheduled work orders. For example configuration data or information about unscheduled work orders for a client may be received from the client system . As another example the input module may receive information about unscheduled work orders from a call center component of the control system and or from an online customer appointment reservation component of the control system .

In some implementations data from the input module is stored in the data store . The data store may be for example a relational database that logically organizes data into a series of database tables. The data included in the data store may be for example data resulting from a particular process e.g. scheduling data dispatch data technician work order completion data and or other types of report data related to technician performance . Each database table arranges data in a series of columns where each column represents an attribute of the data stored in the database and rows where each row represents attribute values . The data store may be for example an object oriented database that logically or physically organizes data into a series of objects. Each object may be associated with a series of attribute values. The data store also may be a type of database management system that is not necessarily a relational or object oriented database. For example a series of XML Extensible Mark up Language files or documents may be used where each XML file or document includes attributes and attribute values. Data included in the data store may be identified by a unique identifier such that data related to a particular process may be retrieved from the data store .

The data store may be configured to maintain segregated data areas for each of the clients and control access to the segregated areas using admission rights. For example the data store may include configuration data for each client. The configuration data may store data for each client that reflects technician data related to technicians associated with the client e.g. personnel information work order status technician scheduling etc. and configured client settings for controlling the integrated components of the control system . For instance the configuration data may include client weighting of various scheduling configuration options used to control scheduling operations client configured work orders client configured documents etc. The configuration data may also include for each client historical data on completed work orders. The historical data may be used to forecast future work orders to help plan the number and skills of technicians that may be needed for a particular client.

The rules engine may identify scheduling rules that relate to a client selected subset of scheduling configuration options. The scheduling rules may be identified by comparing the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options to data mapping scheduling configuration options to rules of a scheduling application. A particular scheduling configuration option may correspond to many different scheduling rules and therefore the number of scheduling rules may be greater than perhaps significantly greater than the number of selected scheduling configuration options. Identified scheduling rules may be used by one or more scheduling applications. An identified scheduling rule may be based on one or more configurable parameters.

The processor may be a processor suitable for the execution of a computer program such as a general or special purpose microprocessor and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. In some implementations the control system includes more than one processor . The processor may receive instructions and data from memory . Memory may store instructions and data corresponding to any or all of the components of the control system . Memory may include read only memory random access memory or both.

The I O devices are configured to provide input to and output from the control system . For example the I O devices may include a mouse a keyboard a stylus or any other device that allows the input of data into the control system or otherwise communicate with the control system . The I O devices may also include a display a printer or any other device that accepts data from the control system and outputs the accepted data to a user of the control system . The network may be one or more public or private wired or wireless networks such as the Internet.

In further detail when the process begins a set of scheduling configuration options is pre defined and aggregated with each scheduling configuration option representing a high level scheduling goal . For example scheduling configuration options related to focusing on the customer e.g. reducing response time facilitating same day scheduling may be defined and aggregated. As another example scheduling configuration options related to minimizing cost e.g. minimizing overtime minimizing drive time may be defined and aggregated. As yet another example scheduling configuration options related to revenue generation e.g. maximizing number of jobs completed prioritizing higher profit work may be defined and aggregated.

In some implementations each of the scheduling configuration options may impact multiple parameters of a scheduling application. For instance the scheduling application may have a very large number of tunable parameters that impact performance of the scheduling application. Each scheduling configuration option however may represent a higher level scheduling goal that encompasses a number of the tunable parameters rather than corresponding directly to a single tunable parameter. In this regard rather than presenting a user with all of the possible combinations of tunable parameters the user is presented with a reduced and more manageable set of high level configuration options with which to configure the scheduling application. Based on user selections related to the high level configuration options the system automatically adjusts the many tunable parameters of the scheduling application to meet the user s high level scheduling goals.

The scheduling configuration options may be defined based on high level scheduling goals that are important to clients. For instance based on past experience with scheduling and business decision making the scheduling configuration options may be defined to correspond to high level goals that are important to clients. The high level goals may then be mapped to particular tunable parameters or scheduling rules needed to implement the higher level goal using the scheduling application so that a client s input related to a higher level goal may be realized. High level goals that are important to clients may be input by an expert that has a large amount of industry experience may be automatically determined by receiving survey data from multiple clients or potential clients and may be automatically determined based on interaction with the system and client actions and or requests related to scheduling over time.

The scheduling configuration options also may be defined based on the tunable parameters of the scheduling application. For example the tunable parameters of the scheduling application may be grouped into related parameters and a scheduling goal that describes the relationship between the parameters may be defined. In this example the parameters may be grouped to maximize the number of parameters included in the respective groups. Maximizing the number of parameters in each group may reduce the number of scheduling configuration options and provide the most convenient options to the user for ease of selection.

The parameters also may be grouped by analyzing past configurations of the scheduling application. For instance the system may track past configuration of the tunable parameters and identify trends in changing particular parameters e.g. which parameters are changed together and how . Based on the identified trends the parameters may be arranged in groups that are typically configured in a similar manner and a high level goal related to each group trend may be defined. The scheduling configuration options may be defined based on user input and or may be defined automatically by a system processor.

The set of scheduling configuration options is presented to a client . For example the set of scheduling configuration options may be presented to a client on a graphical user interface e.g. interface see interface see . As another example the set of scheduling configuration options may be presented to a client using a paper based form.

User input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options is received . For example user input selecting a subset of the scheduling configuration options may be received where the selected subset represents scheduling goals on which the client would like to focus in performing scheduling operations. As another example weighting parameters may be received for one or more configuration options indicating relative importance for weighted scheduling configuration options as compared to other scheduling configuration options.

A scheduling application is configured for the user based on the user input weighting at least one of the scheduling configuration options relative to other of the scheduling configuration options . For example a scheduling application may be configured by identifying and tailoring weighting parameters that relate to scheduling configuration options selected by the client. As another example a set of rules and configuration variables may be mapped to client inputted weighting parameters and the scheduling application may be adapted based on the set of rules and configuration variables. The configuration of the scheduling application may include modification of more parameters of the scheduling application than the number of scheduling configuration options input by the client. For example the client may select five scheduling configuration options representing five high level goals on which the client would like to focus in performing scheduling operations and twenty five variables of the scheduling application may be configured based on the five selected scheduling configuration options.

Data defining unscheduled work orders associated with the client is received . For example data defining unscheduled work orders may be received by a client system associated with the client. As another example data defining work orders may be received from a call center and or from an online customer appointment reservation system.

Scheduling operations are performed for the unscheduled work orders using the configured scheduling application . For example unscheduled work orders may be assigned using the configured scheduling application to one or more of technicians associated with the client and work orders may be dispatched to assigned technicians.

A preferred status option affects accounting for preferred status customers. For example a priority may be given to scheduling preferred status customers over customers that do not have preferred status. In this example the preferred status customers may be given more desirable appointment times or may be scheduled sooner than a customer with non preferred status. A provide shortest time windows option indicates a preference to create the shortest average time window per appointment. A minimize response time option indicates a preference that an appointment be created as close as possible to the date time of the appointment request. A room for same day scheduling option indicates a preference that time slots be left open in the daily schedule in anticipation of unplanned work. For example one or more time slots may be left unassigned in schedules for some or all technicians. A least drive time option indicates a preference that drive time between work orders be minimized. For example when assigning a technician to a work order preference may be given to assign a technician whose previous appointment is closest to the customer. A minimize overtime option indicates a preference that the amount of extra pay for overtime work be minimized. For example technicians may be scheduled so that total weekly hours for each technician are forty hours or less.

A least costly labor resource option indicates a preference that the least costly labor resource be selected per assignment. For example a technician who earns a lower rate per hour may be selected over a technician who earns a higher rate per hour. As another example the least qualified technician who is capable of performing the work may be selected. A same equipment for most jobs option indicates a preference that orders that require the same equipment needs be grouped. For example a technician may use special equipment for installation work orders and installation work orders as compared to repair work orders may be grouped.

A preference to higher profit work option indicates a preference that a priority be given to work that has a higher profit margin. For example the client may service more than one product with a first product having a higher profit margin than a second product and preference may be given in scheduling to the first product. A maximize number of jobs per day option indicates a preference that the number of jobs performed per day be maximized. For example technicians may be scheduled to work overtime in order to increase the number of jobs performed per day. A preferred field technician option indicates a preference that assignments be scheduled based on providing the best skilled technician or a requested technician. An allow for fill in work option indicates a preference that time slots be left open in the daily schedule for fill in work. For example one or more time slots may be left open for fill in work in schedules for some or all technicians.

In some implementations scheduling configuration options may be grouped by category e.g. an even higher level goal . For example options may be associated with a customer focus category. As additional examples options may be associated with a cost optimization category and options may be associated with a revenue generation category.

In further detail when the process begins user input selecting a subset of the scheduling configuration options is received the selected subset representing high level scheduling goals on which the client would like to focus in performing scheduling operations. The user may select scheduling configuration options using for example a user interface illustrated in .

The user interface includes a control which the user may select to indicate that the user desires to select a custom set of scheduling configuration options. Areas display scheduling configuration options that the user may select. The areas display scheduling configuration options grouped by category. For example area displays scheduling configuration options related to customer focus area displays scheduling configuration options related to cost optimization and area displays scheduling configuration options related to revenue generation.

Area displays example scheduling configuration options related to accounting for preferred status customers providing minimum time windows for appointments minimizing response time and leaving room in a daily schedule to allow for same day scheduling of appointments. Area displays example scheduling configuration options related to minimizing drive time minimizing overtime using the least expensive labor resource and grouping orders which require the same equipment needs. Area displays example scheduling configuration options related to prioritizing work that has a higher profit margin maximizing the number of jobs completed per day prioritizing assignments based on providing the best skilled or requested technician and providing room in the daily schedule for fill in work.

The user may select one or more scheduling configuration options in one or more of the areas and then add the one or more selected options to a selected options list . For example the user may drag and drop selected options onto the selected options list or the user may add selected options using an add button . A scheduling configuration option may be removed from the selected options list by for example using a remove button . The selected options list currently includes scheduling configuration options and which had been added from the area and scheduling configuration option which had been added from the area .

The user may promote or demote options included in the selected options list using buttons and . For example the selected options list may be a ranked list in which the first option in the list is the most important to the user and the other options are provided in the list in order of decreasing importance. The buttons and may be used to adjust the order of the selected options. The order may be used in configuring the scheduling application e.g. breaking ties conflicts that arise when two selected goals would result in contrary adjustments to the scheduling application .

In addition to allowing the user to select scheduling configuration options from more than one category e.g. from more than one of customer focus cost optimization revenue generation the user may alternatively select control or to indicate that a general focus for scheduling should be either customer focus cost optimization or revenue generation respectively. For instance selection of the control may cause all of the configuration options included in the customer focus category to be selected.

The controls may also be used to filter the display of selectable options. For example if the user selects control the area may remain displayed in the interface while the areas and may become hidden otherwise removed from the interface or non operational. User interface approaches other than those shown in may be used. For example a series of interlinked slider controls may be used to select and prioritize scheduling configuration options.

Returning to after a subset of scheduling configuration options is selected scheduling rules that relate to the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options are identified . The scheduling rules may be identified by comparing the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options to data mapping scheduling configuration options to rules of the scheduling application. A particular scheduling configuration option may correspond to many different scheduling rules and therefore the number of scheduling rules may be greater than perhaps significantly greater than the number of selected scheduling configuration options. Identified scheduling rules may be used by a scheduling application. An identified scheduling rule may be based on one or more configurable parameters.

The identified scheduling rules are tailored based on the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options . For example the value of one or more configurable parameters may be modified according to the selected subset of scheduling configuration options. For example if a selected scheduling configuration option indicated a priority for minimizing overtime a parameter affecting the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician may be modified to a value of eight and a parameter affecting the maximum number of hours worked per technician per week may be modified to a value of forty. As another example if a selected configuration option indicated a priority for maximizing the number of jobs performed per day and if there was no indication to minimize overtime then a parameter affecting the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician may be modified to a value higher than eight e.g. twelve and a parameter affecting the maximum number of hours worked per week per technician may be modified to a value higher than forty e.g. sixty . The modified parameter values may be stored in a configured data section of an electronic data store associated with the control system in association with the client. In some implementations the tailoring of identified scheduling rules is done once during client configuration e.g. not done every day .

An order in which the selected subset of the scheduling configuration options are ranked may be used in tailoring the identified scheduling rules. For instance when two identified scheduling rules conflict the rule associated with the higher ranked scheduling configuration option may be selected and the other rule may not be selected. In addition when two goals suggest different modifications to parameters of the scheduling application the order may be used to tailor the scheduling rules. Suppose both the minimize overtime and maximize the number of jobs performed per day configuration options have been selected. As discussed above selection of the minimize overtime option may result in the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician parameter being set to eight and selection of the maximize the number of jobs performed per day option may result in the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician parameter being set to twelve. In this case the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician parameter may be set to eight when the minimize overtime option is ranked higher than the maximize the number of jobs performed per day option. Alternatively the maximum number of hours worked per day per technician parameter may be set to twelve when the maximize the number of jobs performed per day option is ranked higher than the minimize overtime option.

The identified scheduling rules may be tailored automatically by a computer process or manually through a user interface. For example shows an example user interface for tailoring scheduling rules. The interface includes tabs which an administrator may select to tailor general rules or rules corresponding to objectives business values or appointment booking values respectively. For example the interface shows the tab as selected which allows the administrator to tailor rules corresponding to objectives by selecting or deselecting various controls . Each of the controls correspond to a scheduling objective. For example control corresponds to an objective to minimize idle time and control corresponds to an objective to minimize travel time between assignments.

The administrator may select a control to toggle the selected control state. The administrator may also select all controls by selecting a select all button or may deselect all controls by selecting a select none button . The administrator may select an ok button to save any changes and close the interface . The interface may be closed without saving changes by the selection of a cancel button

For each client selected scheduling configuration option one or more controls may be modified. For example if the client selected a minimize overtime scheduling configuration option control may be selected which may result in consideration of overtime in scheduling processes. In addition to selecting or deselecting controls the administrator may adjust the relative weight of a selected objective by selecting an edit weight button . Weight values may be specified as a value from 0 to 100. For example if the client indicated a slight preference to minimize overtime the administrator may set the weight of the minimize overtime objective to a relatively moderate value e.g. 31 to 50 whereas if the client indicated a strong preference to minimize overtime the administrator may set the weight of the minimize overtime objective to a high value such as 100. As another example of tailoring a scheduling rule an administrator may select the control in response to a client selected scheduling configuration option of preferred field technician to configure scheduling so that assignments are prioritized based on providing the best skilled or most requested field technician.

Several objectives may be modified in response to one client selected scheduling configuration option. For example if the client selected a least drive time scheduling configuration option to reduce mileage and gas costs the administrator may select some or all of the controls and to minimize travel between assignments minimize travel from the home base and configure a preference for work to be done at a common site by a technician who is already assigned to work at that location respectively. The weights of the objectives corresponding to controls and may be individually configured to fine tune how drive time is minimized. For example for a company who services a rural area where all drive times are relatively long the weight for the minimize travel between assignments may be set to a lower weight e.g. 50 than a weight of 100 for the objective corresponding to control same site objective . As another example the weight of the objective corresponding to control can be increased if a client has a strong preference to minimize travel from the home base.

One objective may be associated with more than one client selected scheduling configuration option. For example if a client selected a scheduling configuration option of minimizing response time an administrator may select and or change the corresponding weight of the schedule as soon as possible objective e.g. control . The administrator may also select and or change the weight of the schedule as soon as possible objective if the client selects a scheduling configuration option of preferred status . If the client selects the preferred status scheduling configuration option they are indicating a priority for taking into account service level agreements for customers for example customers who have a Platinum service level agreement may be promised same day service while customers who have a Gold or Silver service level agreement may be promised 3 or 5 day service response times . If the client indicated a high preference for minimizing response time the schedule as soon as possible objective may be given a relatively high weight which may result in work orders being completed well before the contractual response times specified by a customer s service level agreement. If the client desires that the response time be close to but still within the time specified by the service level agreement a lower weight can be specified for the schedule as soon as possible objective.

Other user interfaces may be used to tailor scheduling rules. For example an example interface shown in may be used to configure appointment booking time slots. Appointment booking time slots may be configured as part of new client configuration. Multiple appointment booking profiles may be configured within the technician control system. Example appointment booking profiles may include full day half day or two hour slots. One or more appointment booking profiles may be associated with a client for example in response to client selection and weighting of a use shortest time window scheduling configuration option.

Existing appointment booking profiles are shown in the interface in a list . An administrator may add a new appointment booking profile by selecting an add button . The administrator may duplicate an existing appointment booking profile by selecting an appointment booking profile in the list and then selecting a duplicate button . An appointment booking profile may be deleted by selecting it in the list and then selecting a delete button

Details about an existing appointment booking profile may be displayed in an area by selecting an appointment booking profile in the list . For example a two hour appointment booking profile is currently selected in the list and the area displays four defined two hour time slots for each weekday. A new time slot may be added by selecting a day of the week using a control selecting a start time using a control selecting an end time using a control and selecting an add button . The most recently added time slot may be duplicated by selecting a duplicate button . A time slot may be deleted by selecting the time slot in the area and then selecting a delete button . Changes made to appointment booking profiles may be saved and the interface may be closed by selecting an ok button . The interface may be closed without saving changes by selecting a cancel button

An appointment booking profile may be associated with one or more service level agreements. A customer of the client may in turn be associated with a service level agreement. An example interface shown in allows an administrator to configure service level agreements. Existing service level agreement profiles are shown in the interface in a list . An administrator may add a new service level agreement profile by selecting an add button . The administrator may duplicate an existing service level agreement profile by selecting a service level agreement profile in the list and then selecting a duplicate button . A service level agreement profile may be deleted by selecting it in the list and then selecting a delete button

Details about an existing service level agreement profile may be displayed in an area by selecting a service level agreement profile in the list . For example a Platinum service level agreement profile is currently selected in the list and the area displays attribute names attribute data types and attribute values for the service level agreement profile . The service level agreement profile includes an appointment booking profile attribute which has a value of Two Hour Appointment Slots . For example the appointment booking profile attribute may correspond to an appointment booking profile created using the interface .

Attribute values for a selected service level agreement profile may be modified by selecting an edit button . Changes made to service level agreement profiles may be saved and the interface may be closed by selecting an ok button . The interface may be closed without saving changes by selecting a cancel button

Enabling control configures soft boundaries for field technicians. Field technicians may be assigned to a home district and if soft boundaries are not enabled field technicians may be restricted to working on work orders that are located within their assigned district. If soft boundaries are enabled field technicians may be assigned to work orders outside of their home district. For example a field technician may be assigned to a work order in an adjacent district if there are no field technicians available in the adjacent district. If there is an overabundance of a particular type of work in a first district that field technicians in a second district are qualified for then field technicians from the second district may be dispatched to the work e.g. if the first district does not have capacity to service all of the work . The system may be configured to prefer field technicians who are assigned to the district associated with the work order and may only schedule field technicians from other districts if a scheduling optimization process determines that assigning field technicians external to the district creates a preferable schedule.

The area may be used by an administrator to configure whether a defined field technician lunch break is considered during scheduling. For example field technicians may be excluded from scheduling during their lunch break. A control may be selected to disable lunch break definition which may result in making field technicians available for work orders during lunchtime e.g. eleven A.M. to one P.M. . A control may be selected if lunch break definitions exist but are defined elsewhere. For example lunch break definitions may be defined using another interface on a per field technician or per field technician group basis. A control may be selected if a particular lunch break timeframe is to be defined. If control is selected a control may be used to define the lunch break start time e.g. twelve P.M. and a control may be used to define the lunch break duration e.g. one hour .

As mentioned above control may be selected to configure whether scheduling capacity is reserved. For example capacity may be reserved for unplanned work such as for high priority emergency work e.g. downed power lines . Control may be configured in response to a client selected room for same day scheduling scheduling configuration option.

Once capacity reservation has been enabled in the scheduling policy e.g. control capacity may be reserved within the system on a task and district basis. For example for each district the system can be configured to reserve a percentage of the workday for a task or group of tasks. illustrates an example interface for configuring capacity reservation for a task type for a district. The interface displays information corresponding to a dictionary entry for a district named Indianapolis . The dictionary entry includes a Key attribute a Revision attribute a Name attribute a District attribute a TaskType attribute and a CapacityThreshold attribute . The attributes may be edited by selecting an edit button . Changes to attribute values may be saved by selecting an ok button . The interface may be closed without saving changes by selecting a cancel button

The TaskType attribute has a value corresponding to a task type for servicing downed power lines. The CapacityThreshold attribute has a value of ninety which indicates that for the Indianapolis district that no more than ninety percent of a days scheduled work orders may be for tasks that are not servicing downed power lines. When selecting a capacity threshold value an administrator may select a value that reserves sufficient capacity to handle the corresponding task but the administrator may also be mindful that the reserved capacity may not be utilized if capacity requiring tasks e.g. downed power lines do not come into the system.

An administrator may use the example interfaces illustrated in to configure scheduling rules in response to client selected least costly labor resource or preference to higher profit work scheduling configuration options. For scheduling processes to determine least costly labor resources costs of internal field technicians may be compared to costs for external field technicians e.g. internal field technicians may be employees of the client while external field technicians may be contractors working for another company . An administrator may select a control on an example interface illustrated in to configure whether external field technicians are to be considered for scheduling.

The interface includes other controls corresponding to other scheduling rules such as whether to reserve capacity for unplanned work schedule external engineers schedule inactive engineers schedule tasks in the past use a duration rule or schedule within engineer working hours respectively. The administrator may select all controls by selecting a select all button or may deselect all controls by selecting a select none button . The administrator may select an ok button to save any changes and close the interface . The interface may be closed without saving changes by the selection of a cancel button

The value displayed in the control may be a relative amount based on the value of a task revenue setting. An example interface illustrated in may be used to configure a relative task revenue setting that may be used to calculate other business value costs. A task revenue value may be entered into a control . Considering the control of if the task revenue setting has a value of one hundred and if external field technicians cost ten percent more than internal field technicians then the value of the control may be ten percent of one hundred e.g. ten .

The interface may also be used to configure the relative overtime cost difference between external and internal field technicians. A control may be used in this example to configure how much more per hour overtime costs are for an external field technician as compared to an internal field technician. As shown the control has a value of zero indicating that overtime rates for external field technicians are the same as overtime rates for internal field technicians.

Other cost related settings may be configured using the interface . For example a control may be used to configure a base cost per task. As another example a control may be used to configure an idle time cost. Idle time cost represents the cost to the client when a field technician is unassigned to revenue producing work.

Controls may be selected to indicate that corresponding settings are defined elsewhere such as on a per field technician basis. The administrator may select an ok button to save any changes and close the interface . The interface may be closed without saving changes by the selection of a cancel button

Field technician costs may be considered for scheduling when a client selects a preference for higher profit work scheduling configuration option. Additionally in response to the selection of a preference for higher profit work scheduling configuration option other revenue related costs may be considered and scheduling rules related to revenue generation may be tailored. For example an administrator may select various controls in the example interface . The control may be used to configure whether basic task revenue is considered in scheduling processes. The control may be used to configure whether bonus revenue may be considered for scheduling work orders as soon as possible. The control may be used to configure whether bonus revenue may be considered when work orders are scheduled on or near the work order due date. The controls and may be used to configure whether travel and overtime costs are considered respectively. The controls may be used to configure whether tasks of different priority levels generate more revenue than other tasks.

The controls and may be used to configure whether idle cost is considered. As mentioned idle cost represents the cost to the client when a field technician is unassigned to revenue producing work. In some implementations the controls and are mutually exclusive meaning that if control is selected to indicate that maximum idle cost be considered then control may be controlled to be unselected. Similarly if control is selected to indicate that a medium idle cost be considered then control may be controlled to be unselected. The administrator may select all controls by selecting a select all button or may deselect all controls by selecting a select none button . The administrator may select an ok button to save any changes and close the interface . The interface may be closed without saving changes by the selection of a cancel button

If revenue related rules are enabled an administrator may use the example interface illustrated in to configure values for revenue related settings. For example a control may be used to configure a bonus revenue amount for scheduling work orders as soon as possible and a control may be used to configure a bonus amount for scheduling work orders on or near the work order due date. The bonus amounts entered in the controls may be tangible actual increases in revenue or may be values representing an intangible benefit such as increased customer satisfaction.

The control may be used to configure an amount representing the additional revenue obtained if a second work order is scheduled at the same site where a field technician is servicing a first work order. The amount entered in control may include for example saved travel costs and saved idle time costs. The control may be used to configure a travel cost per work order.

The controls L may be used to configure amounts of additional revenue which may be generated by completing tasks of different priority levels. For example a priority task may correspond to a high priority or emergency task which gets escalated and which results in a higher charge to the customer and therefore may earn more revenue for the client . Revenue amounts for up to eight priority levels may be configured using the interface . The administrator may select an ok button to save any changes and close the interface . The interface may be closed without saving changes by the selection of a cancel button

Returning to the scheduling application is configured for the client to use the tailored scheduling rules . The performance of scheduling operations by the scheduling application may be based on and or be conditional upon the evaluation and interpretation of rules. The interpretation and evaluation of rules may be based on configurable variable parameter values. For example the scheduling application may read configured parameter values from an electronic data store associated with the client and these retrieved values may be used as a part of rule evaluation and interpretation. For example before assigning a work order to a technician a check may be performed to see whether the technician has reached either a maximum hours per day or maximum hours per week limit. Client specific maximum hours per day and maximum hours per week parameter values may be read from an electronic data store before testing to see whether the technician has reached either the maximum hours per day or maximum hours per week limit. Retrieved parameter values may be different for each client. For example for one client the value of the maximum hours per day parameter may be eight while the maximum hours per day parameter value may be twelve for another client.

In further detail when the process begins user input setting weighting parameters for one or more of the scheduling configuration options is received . The user may input weighting parameters using an interface as illustrated in . Similar to the interface of the interface includes a control which the user may select to indicate that the user desires to select and weight a custom set of scheduling configuration options. The interface includes areas and for displaying available scheduling configuration options related to customer focus cost optimization and revenue generation respectively.

Similar to the interface the user may add selected scheduling configuration options to a selected options list from the areas for example using an add button . The user may select a weighting parameter for each scheduling configuration option displayed in the selected options list . For example a weighting parameter value of seven for a preferred status option has been selected using a control and a weighting parameter value of three for a minimize response time option has been selected using a control . As shown by the expanded control the user may be presented with a defined list of weighting parameter values e.g. whole number values from one to ten . In the expanded control the user has selected a weighting parameter value of three to indicate that the minimize overtime option is of equal importance to the user as the minimize response time option. Each of the minimize overtime option and the minimize response time option are of relatively less importance to the user as compared to the preferred status option and are of relatively greater importance to the user as compared to the other options that have not been selected.

Scheduling configuration options may be removed from the selected options list using a remove option button . Similar to the interface the user may select one of controls to filter the selectable scheduling configuration options to a category such as customer focus cost optimization or revenue generation. For example in some implementations if the user selects control the area may remain displayed in the interface while the areas and may become hidden otherwise removed from the interface or non operational. In some implementations selecting a control results in the selection of all scheduling configuration options corresponding to the respective category.

Returning to when the weighting parameters have been received the weighting parameters for the one or more of the scheduling configuration options are mapped to a detailed set of rules and configuration variables . The weighting parameters may be mapped for example to a set of rules and configuration variables included in a scheduling application. For example if leaving room for same day appointments is selected as a scheduling configuration option a rule may be identified which determines for example whether to leave a block of unscheduled time at the end of all or some technicians schedules to be made available for same day appointments.

The identified rule may be based on one or more configuration variables. For example the identified rule may be based on a configuration variable which may have a value of either true or false with a true value indicating that end of day time should be intentionally left unscheduled for same day appointments and a false value indicating that end of day time should not be intentionally left unscheduled for same day appointments. The identified rule may also be based on a second configuration variable which may indicate how much time to leave unscheduled or may indicate what percentage of technicians should have end of day slots open. The value of the second configuration variable may be based on the received weighting parameter. For example if the weighting parameter for a leave room for unplanned appointments scheduling configuration option is 10 e.g. indicating a very high priority the value of a configuration variable may be set to two hours interpreted as meaning that the last two hours of every technician s schedule should be left open to facilitate servicing unplanned appointments. As another example if the weighting parameter for the leave room for unplanned appointments is two e.g. indicating some but not high importance the value of a custom variable may be set to ten percent indicating that ten percent of technicians should remain unscheduled for the last portion e.g. one hour of their work day to facilitate servicing of unplanned appointments.

The scheduling application is adapted based on the detailed set of rules and configuration variables . For example the value of one or more configuration variables may be read from an electronic data store and the retrieved values may be used during rule interpretation and evaluation which may affect performed scheduling operations. The scheduling application may be adapted dynamically based on configuration data accessed during operation of the scheduling application or the adapted scheduling application may be stored as a client specific version of the scheduling application that is used for scheduling work orders for the particular client.

In further detail when the process begins technicians supervised by a particular supervisor that uses a particular device are identified . For example a supervisor may supervise multiple technicians e.g. 10 technicians . In a dispatch application configuration of a technician account may include the selection of a supervisor user who supervises the technician. A query may be performed in the dispatch application to determine a set of technicians who are configured as being supervised by a particular supervisor. The supervisor may be determined by selecting a particular supervisor from a list or by determining a supervisor who is registered to user a particular handheld device from which the query was initiated. For example the supervisor may use a handheld device to run a dispatch application communicate with technicians and perform other actions. For example the supervisor may use a handheld PC personal computer wireless handheld device laptop smart phone desktop computer or other device.

Progress and status of scheduled work orders is determined for each of the identified technicians . For example technicians may communicate status and progress of work orders using a mobile device such as a handheld PC laptop smart phone wireless handheld device or other device. A technician may carry a mobile device or a mobile device may be mounted in a technician s vehicle. Progress and status may be communicated from each technician to a dispatch application.

The supervisor is enabled to view data reflecting the determined progress and status of scheduled work orders . For example in some implementations the supervisor may be provided access to a dispatch application. The supervisor may have access to the dispatch application from a mobile device e.g. handheld PC and or from another device such as a desktop computer. Progress and status of each work order for each technician supervised by the supervisor may be displayed in the dispatch interface in a list and or map interface. In some implementations the supervisor has access to a supervisor application which provides a different view of work orders than the dispatch application.

Progress and status of scheduled work orders is monitored for each of the identified technicians . For example as each technician updates the status and progress of work orders that they are working on the updated status and progress may be communicated to and displayed in the dispatch application. The supervisor may use the dispatch application to monitor progress and status of the work orders assigned to the technicians that the supervisor supervises.

It is determined whether a schedule or quality issue is detected . The determination whether a schedule or quality issue has been detected may be performed manually or automatically. For example a set of rules can be defined which describe conditions which indicate a schedule or quality issue. For example illustrates a set of alert trigger rules . As illustrated by rules a schedule or quality issue may be detected if progress of a technician falls a certain percentage e.g. twenty five percent behind expected progress or if a work order is not completed after a threshold amount of time e.g. fifty minutes thirty minutes etc. has elapsed. Different threshold amounts of time may be configured for different jobs or different types of jobs. Different threshold amounts of time may be defined for different types of technicians e.g. rules may be set for specific technicians rules may be set for specific groups of technicians such as groups of technicians with similar skills or technicians having a similar number of years of experience . As illustrated by rules a schedule or quality issue may be detected if a complaint is received if an incident report is initiated if it is determined that the skills and or experience of an assigned technician is low for a work order that the technician is assigned to or if it is determined that it is likely that the technician may miss the next scheduled appointment due to the combination of the amount of estimated work time remaining plus the amount of estimated travel time to the next scheduled appointment exceeding the time remaining until the next scheduled appointment.

If a schedule or quality issue is not detected monitoring of status and progress of scheduled work orders continues for each of the identified technicians. If a schedule or quality issue is detected a message to the supervisor is triggered to alert the supervisor of the detected issue . For example if progress of a technician falls a certain percentage behind expected progress an alert message such as the example alert message illustrated in may be sent to the supervisor s device.

The alert message includes a title indicating that progress of technician three is behind schedule. A status bar indicates that the work order is fifty percent complete whereas a status bar indicates that it is expected that the work order would be seventy five percent complete. The alert message may be triggered if the actual progress falls behind the expected progress by a configured threshold percentage such as twenty five percent. A details area describes that forty five minutes have elapsed since the start of the work order that the average time to complete the remaining portion of the work order is thirty minutes and that the estimated time to complete the remaining portion of the work order at the current rate is forty five minutes. The details area also indicates that the next appointment for technician three begins in forty five minutes.

As another example an alert message such as the alert message illustrated in may be sent to the supervisor if it is determined that a technician may likely not be on time for the technician s next scheduled appointment. The alert message includes a title indicating that technician two is likely to miss the next appointment. A status bar indicates that the current work order is fifty percent complete matching the expected progress of fifty percent indicated by a status bar . Although the technician s progress matches the expected progress the time remaining until the next scheduled appointment is in this example less than the combination of the time remaining to complete the current work order and the travel time to the next scheduled appointment. For example travel time may now be more than earlier expected due to a detected traffic delay along the route to the next appointment. As described in a details area the estimated time to complete the current work order at the current rate is forty five minutes and the estimated travel time to the next appointment is twenty minutes. A total of sixty five minutes may be computed by adding the work time remaining and travel time. The sixty five minute total is more than the fifty minute time remaining until the start of the next appointment.

Returning to when a message to the supervisor is triggered to alert the supervisor of the detected issue the supervisor is assisted in taking action to correct the detected issue . For instance in the example of where the supervisor has been alerted that progress of technician is behind schedule the supervisor may interact with controls on the alert message to take action to correct the detected issue. For example the supervisor may select a control to view additional details about the work order or may select a control to view details about technician . The additional details may provide more information related to the detected issue and may assist the supervisor in determining how to handle the issue. In some implementations the supervisor may initiate the sending of help e.g. another technician by selecting a control . For example if the supervisor activates the control the supervisor s device triggers an action to identify another technician that is qualified to help and also available to help e.g. not currently scheduled for a work order or nearly complete with a nearby work order . In this example when another technician is identified the technician is scheduled to assist in the work order e.g. the scheduling application updates the identified technician s schedule and the supervisor is informed that the identified technician is being sent to help. In other examples the control may cause the supervisor s device to display a list of available and qualified technicians and allow the supervisor to select a technician to send to help. Based on the supervisor s selection the scheduling and dispatching applications may be updated. In some implementations the supervisor may initiate the sending of help using other means e.g. a verbal request to a dispatcher .

The supervisor may initiate a conversation e.g. text and or audio with technician three by selecting a control . For instance if the supervisor activates the control the supervisor s device may automatically place a call to the technician s device to discuss the detected issue.

The supervisor may specify a desire to personally attend the appointment by selecting an attend control . The supervisor may desire to attend the appointment to give personal on site assistance to the technician. In response to activation of the control the supervisor s schedule may be updated to reflect the appointment and driving directions and other work order details may be displayed on the supervisor s device. Also notification of the supervisor s pending arrival may be sent to the technician and or the customer.

In the example of where the supervisor has been alerted that technician two is likely to miss or be late for the next scheduled appointment the supervisor may interact with controls to take corrective action. Controls and may be selected to view additional details about the technician or the work order respectively. The additional details may provide more information related to the detected issue and may assist the supervisor in determining how to handle the issue. Control may be selected to reschedule the next appointment. Rescheduling the next appointment may involve scheduling another technician to handle the next appointment or changing the date and or time of the appointment. In some implementations rescheduling involves placing a call to a dispatcher and requesting a change to be made through a dispatch application.

Control may be selected to communicate e.g. phone call email text message etc. with the customer associated with technician two s next appointment. For instance if the supervisor activates the control the supervisor s device may automatically place a call to the customer to enable the supervisor to discuss the situation with the customer and handle the situation based on preference of the customer. By alerting the supervisor and allowing the supervisor to handle the scheduling issue the technician may focus on completing the current work order without taking the time to reschedule the next appointment or alert the customer of the next appointment to the delay.

In the example of where the supervisor has been alerted that a complaint has been detected for a work order being completed by technician five the supervisor may interact with controls to take corrective action. Controls and may be selected to view additional details about the customer or the work order respectively. The additional details may provide more information related to the detected issue and may assist the supervisor in determining how to handle the issue. Control may be selected to authorize a promotion e.g. discount for the customer who initiated and or was affected by the complaint. In response to activation of the control a list of promotions or a custom input screen may be displayed to enable the supervisor to input the desired promotion deemed appropriate by the supervisor. A promotion may be identified by the supervisor or automatically identified by the supervisor s device. In response to identification of the promotion the supervisor s device may send a message to the technician s device that indicates the authorized promotion and allows the technician to present the promotion to the customer. By allowing the supervisor to authorize the promotion at a touch of a button the supervisor may handle complaints more quickly and without the delay caused by communicating with a disgruntled customer.

Control may be selected to communicate e.g. phone call email text message etc. with the customer. Control may be selected to initiate a conversation e.g. text message email phone call etc. with technician five .

In the example of where the supervisor has been alerted that technician seven may not have the required skills and or experience to complete a work order the supervisor may interact with controls to take corrective action. Controls and may be selected to view additional details about the technician or the work order respectively. The additional details may provide more information related to the detected issue and may assist the supervisor in determining how to handle the issue. Control may be selected to initiate an action to assist the technician. For example another technician may be sent to assist technician seven the supervisor may communicate e.g. through text audio and or video with technician seven or the supervisor may choose to physically attend the appointment to offer assistance. As another example the supervisor may select control to send a training or instruction document or manual to technician seven e.g. an electronic document may be sent to a technician device and or a document may be sent to a printer connected to a technician device e.g. a printer may be connected to a device mounted in a technician s vehicle . The supervisor may select control to reschedule the appointment e.g. to reschedule using a technician who is more qualified to perform job X .

The pre defined work orders and work flows include definitions for standard types of work orders that might be applicable for all or a majority of clients. Pre defined work flows may define a standard set of processing steps for handling pre defined types of work orders. The standard document library includes documents that might be applicable for all or a majority of clients.

The dispatch application may be used to convey schedule information to technicians and to manage alerts and reminders related to scheduled appointments. The mobility application may enable the technician control system to communicate with the technician devices . The supervisor mapping application may be used to enable a supervisor to respond to schedule and quality issues that occur in the field. The scheduling application may be used to define work schedules for technicians associated with a client.

The technician control system includes or has access to an electronic data store configured to maintain segregated data areas for each of the multiple clients associated with the multiple client systems control access to the segregated areas using admission rights and store configuration data for each of the multiple clients associated with the multiple client systems . For example segregated data area includes for and specific to a first client e.g. client associated with client system admission rights data privileges data configured work order data configured scheduling data configured supervisor data and custom documents. Similarly a second segregated work area includes admission rights data privileges data configured work order data configured scheduling data configured supervisor data and custom documents for a second client e.g. client associated with client system .

The technician control system is further configured to control scheduling and dispatch operations for each of the multiple clients associated with the multiple client systems in a configured manner that leverages the stored configuration data for each of the multiple different clients. For example if a request is received from a technician device a client associated with the technician device may be identified from among the multiple clients associated with the multiple client systems . Admission rights of the technician device may be compared to admission rights of the identified client and in response to a determination that the technician device is authorized to perform the request the request may be handled using standard pre defined assets and applications based on configurations defined by the client and data related to the request may be stored in a segregated data area associated with the identified client.

The technician control system enables clients to deploy dispatching and scheduling applications without investing in expensive IT infrastructure and application development. Clients may purchase services offered by the technician control system for example for a monthly fee. Clients may leverage pre implemented proven processes and avoid costly implementation of complex scheduling logic. Pre defined processes can be configured and can adapt based on inputted client scheduling configuration options.

Each of the technician devices may be a handheld PC personal computer wireless handheld device laptop smart phone desktop computer or other device. The network may be one or more public or private wireless and or wired networks such as the Internet or a WAN wide area network . The mobile network may be an IP Internet Protocol based network using for example technologies such as UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System CDMA Code Division Multiple Access GPRS General Packet Radio Service or EVDO Evolution Data Optimized .

In further detail when the process begins a particular client of a control system is established . For example a particular client may commit to being serviced by the control system and information related to setting up the client may be received from the client for example through computer and or paper based forms. Data regarding user accounts roles and privileges may be gathered along with configured work order data configured scheduling data configured supervisor data and custom documents. In further detail scheduling configuration options which represent various high level scheduling goals may be gathered.

After a client is established a segregated data area for the particular client is defined the segregated data area being separate from other data areas associated with other clients of the control system. For example a segregated data area within an electronic data store may be defined and associated with the client. The segregated data area may represent a particular portion of a data storage device e.g. a particular range of addresses . The segregated data area may also include a particular tag or encryption that is used specifically on the client s data and that is different than tags or encryption used on data of other clients.

Admission rights and privileges are set for the particular client to enable users associated with the particular client to access the segregated data area . For example various user roles may be defined such as scheduler dispatcher technician supervisor and technician. Users of each role type may be identified and for each identified user a user account may be established with an associated user identification password and role membership. The user identification password and role membership may be stored within the segregated data area associated with the client. The admission rights and privileges may be used to prevent other client devices or other external users from accessing the data associated with the particular client. The admission rights and privileges may be tied to hardware information of technician devices used by technicians of the client such that only technicians physically possessing a technician device associated with the particular client are able to access the particular client s data.

The particular client is enabled to configure standard pre defined assets and applications of the control system . For example custom work order types may be defined to represent custom types of work orders associated with the client. For each work order type application interfaces may be configured or defined to support custom work order data entry for the custom work order type. As another example custom documents such as manuals and troubleshooting documents may be defined and associated with specific work order types.

As another example user input weighting one or more scheduling configuration options relative to other scheduling configuration options may be received from the client where each scheduling configuration option represents a high level goal that the client desires to focus on in scheduling and dispatch operations. Pre defined applications may be configured for the client based on the received scheduling configuration options.

Configuration data for the particular client is stored that reflects configurations to the standard pre defined assets and applications made by the particular client . For example custom parameter and variable values used in rules associated with a client s selected configuration options may be stored in the segregated data area associated with the client.

In further detail when the process begins a request is received from a device . For example a request to mark a work order as complete may be received from a technician device.

A client associated with the device is identified from among multiple clients . For example a device identifier may be detected within or in association with the request received from the technician device and a client identifier may be retrieved from a mapping of device identifiers to client identifiers. The mapping from device identifiers to client identifiers may be retrieved from an electronic data store.

Admission rights and or privileges of the device are compared to admission rights and or privileges of the identified client . For example the request from the technician device may include authentication information such as admission rights and or privileges. The admission rights and or privileges received from the device may be compared to admission rights and or privileges retrieved from a segregated data area associated with the identified client.

It is determined whether the device is authorized to perform requests . For example it may be determined whether the admission rights and or privileges of the device are recognized as being associated with a client. If the admission rights and or privileges of the device are not associated with a client it is determined that the device is not authorized to perform requests. If it is determined that the admission rights and or privileges of the device are associated with a client the privilege level needed to perform the request may be compared to privilege level s of the device. If a privilege level of the device is sufficient to perform the request e.g. a privilege level of the device may be equal to or higher than the minimum needed privilege level or a privilege level of the device may match or include a defined role which authorizes the request then it is determined that the device is authorized to perform the request. If the privileges of the device are not sufficient to perform the request it is determined that the device is not authorized to perform the request.

If the device is not authorized to perform requests then the request is denied . For example the request may be ignored or a denial message may be sent to the device.

If the device is authorized to perform requests the request is handled using standard pre defined assets and or applications based on configurations defined by the identified client . For example data related to client configurations may be retrieved from a segregated data area associated with the client. Application execution may be adapted based on the retrieved configured data.

Data related to the request is stored in the segregated data area associated with the identified client . For example a status value may be stored in the segregated data area associated with the identified client to indicate that a work order is now complete.

For instance as shown the pre defined work orders and work flows include pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows pre defined gas industry work orders and work flows and pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows . The pre defined industry work orders and work flows represent work orders that typically occur in the corresponding industry and typical work flows for handling those work orders. Although three sets of pre defined industry work orders and work flows are shown in more or fewer sets of pre defined industry work orders and work flows may be defined and leveraged.

In some implementations the pre defined industry work orders and work flows are defined based on user input from experts in the corresponding industries and are defined to generally apply to any company operating in the corresponding industry. In these implementations a company that manages technicians operating in an industry for which work orders and work flows have been pre defined can begin using the technician control system in a relatively short period of time by leveraging the pre defined work orders and work flows. Because the works orders and work flows generally apply to any company operating in the corresponding industry the company may be able to configure e.g. define modifications for the pre defined work orders and work flows to meet company specific requirements. Techniques described above with respect to may be used to enable client configuration of the pre defined work orders and work flows. Leveraging the pre defined work orders and work flows even with substantial configuration may offer a significant time saving in terms of beginning use of the technician control system.

The pre defined industry work orders define types of work orders performed in an industry and other information needed to complete the work orders. For instance the pre defined industry work orders may include for each work order work order data that identifies the work order that defines data needed to be collected entered by a technician in handling the work order and that defines graphical user interface displays e.g. skins displayed on technician devices to facilitate handling of the work order by a technician. In one example an install new cable hookup work order in the cable industry defines data needed to be collected when installing a new cable hookup e.g. identification number of cable box used etc. . In another example a replace meter work order in the utility industry defines data needed to be collected in replacing a meter e.g. condition of replaced meter etc. .

The pre defined industry work flows define operations and processing flow for handling the work orders defined in the work order data. For instance the pre defined industry work flows may include for each work order work flow data that identifies the work order that defines operations needed to complete the work order and that defines an order in which the operations need to be performed. In one example a replace meter work flow in the utility industry defines operations needed to be performed by a technician in replacing a meter and the order in which those operations are performed e.g. take meter reading from old meter remove old meter enter details of removed meter install new meter with zeroed reading and take meter reading from new meter . For operations defined in the work flow data for a work order the corresponding work order data is used to determine what data needs to be collected in performing the work order and to generate graphical user interfaces displayed on a technician device during completion of the work order.

In the example shown in four client companies leverage the pre defined industry work orders and work flows . The four client companies include a first cable company a second cable company a utility and gas company and a utility company . Each of the client companies includes a client system e.g. similar to systems and shown in and multiple technician devices used by technicians managed by the company e.g. similar to technician devices and shown in . Although four client companies are shown in more or fewer client companies may use the technician control system and leverage the pre defined industry work orders and work flows .

In processing work orders technician devices associated with the first cable company leverage the pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows . For instance the technician devices associated with the first cable company send work order related requests to the technician control system and the technician control system handles the work order related requests using the pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows .

In some examples the technician control system may send data that is based on the pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows to the technician devices associated with the first cable company . The technician devices associated with the first cable company may store the data and use the stored data in handling work orders.

Technician devices associated with the second cable company also leverage the pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows in processing work orders. Because the second cable company is in the same industry as the first cable company the second cable company leverages the same pre defined work order data and work flow data as the first cable company . Accordingly work order processing for the first cable company and the second cable company may be the same.

As discussed above in some implementations each of the first cable company and the second cable company define configurations e.g. modifications to the pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows such that work order processing for the first cable company and the second cable company differs. In these implementations although configurations are made the underlying pre defined cable industry work orders and work flows are used as a basis on which work order processing for the first cable company and the second cable company is handled.

Technician devices associated with the utility and gas company leverage both the pre defined gas industry work orders and work flows and the pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows in processing work orders. Because the utility and gas company manages technicians in both the gas industry and the utility industry technicians associated with the utility and gas company use the pre defined data for both industries. For example the utility and gas company manages a first technician that services the gas industry and a second technician that services the utility industry. In this example requests associated with a first technician device used by the first technician are handled using the pre defined gas industry work orders and work flows and requests associated with a second technician device used by the second technician are handled using the pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows . When a request is being processed the technician control system may determine the industry associated with the technician device handling the work order and use the pre defined work order data and work flow data that corresponds to the determined industry.

In another example the utility and gas company manages a technician that services both the gas industry and the utility industry. In this example a technician device used by the technician leverages both the pre defined gas industry work orders and work flows and the pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows . When a request is being processed the technician control system determines the industry associated with the request and uses the pre defined work order data and work flow data that corresponds to the determined industry.

Technician devices associated with the utility company leverage the pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows in processing work orders. Because the utility company is in the same industry as a portion of the utility and gas company the utility company leverages a portion of the pre defined work order data and work flow data that is used by the utility and gas company . Accordingly work order processing for the utility company and the utility and gas company may be the same for utility work orders. Of course either or both of the utility and gas company and the utility company may make configurations to the pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows such that work order processing for utility work orders differs. Although configurations may be made the underlying pre defined utility industry work orders and work flows are used as a basis on which utility work order processing for the utility and gas company and the utility company is handled.

In further detail when the process begins work order data for work orders corresponding to each of multiple different industries is defined . The work order data is defined in electronic storage of a technician control system based on user input. For example industry experts associated with the technician control system may develop work order data for a particular industry based on past experience and expertise. In this example the technician control system receives input describing the developed work order data for the particular industry and defines work order data in electronic storage based on the received input. By using the technician control system client companies that are unrelated to the industry experts may leverage the work order data that has been pre defined by the industry experts.

The work order data includes information identifying work orders that occur in the particular industry. For each work order the work order data may include information that describes data if any needed to be collected entered by a technician in handling the work order. The work order data also may define graphical user interface displays e.g. skins that are to be displayed on technician devices when a technician is handling work orders. The graphical user interface displays e.g. skins may include a combination of work order specific graphical user interface displays e.g. skins and industry specific graphical user interface displays e.g. skins that apply to more than one work order e.g. all work orders . The technician control system receives input for each of multiple different industries and defines work order data in electronic storage for each of the multiple different industries.

Work flow data for the work orders corresponding to each of the multiple different industries also is defined . The work flow data is defined in electronic storage of a technician control system based on user input. The work flow data may be defined using techniques similar to those discussed above at reference numeral with respect to the work order data.

The work flow data includes information defining operations and processing flow for handling the work orders defined in the work order data. For instance the work flow data may include for each work order information that describes operations needed to complete the work order and an order in which the operations need to be performed. The technician control system and or the technician devices use the work flow data to control process flow and selection of which interfaces are displayed to technicians handling work orders.

A technician control system is pre configured to leverage the defined work order data and the defined work flow data in performing work order processing for technicians in the multiple different industries . For instance processing components of the technician control system are configured to leverage the defined work order data and the defined work flow data based on an industry of a client or an industry of a technician of a client. In this regard a client may begin using the technician control system in a relatively short period of time by identifying an industry of the client or its technicians.

Work orders for technicians in the multiple different industries are processed using the defined work order data and the defined work flow data . For instance user interface display and data collection is controlled for technician devices using the defined work order data and work flow processing for the technician devices is controlled using the defined work flow data. In some examples the technician control system and a technician device exchange communications related to a work order the technician control system accesses the defined work order data and the defined work flow data appropriate for the work order and the technician control system sends communications to the technician device that control the technician device in accordance with the defined work order data and the defined work flow data. In other examples the technician control system sends the defined work order data and the defined work flow data to technician devices to enable the technician devices to process work orders locally without having to communicate with the technician control system.

In further detail when the process begins a first client in a first industry and a second client in a second industry are established for a technician control system . For example a particular client may commit to being serviced by the control system and information related to setting up the client may be received from the client for example through computer and or paper based forms. Data regarding industry and technicians may be gathered along with needed configurations to pre defined work order and work flow data. Many clients in each of many different industries may be established.

The first industry associated with the first client and the second industry associated with the second client is determined . For instance the industry of each of the clients may be determined based on information or input received from the clients.

The technician control system is configured to leverage pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for the first client . For example processing components of the technician control system are configured to leverage work order data and work flow data that was defined in the technician control system for the first industry prior to establishment of the first client. In this example the technician control system may store data that causes the technician control system to use the pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the first industry for work order requests related to technicians managed by the first client. In some implementations the processing components of the technician control system are configured to leverage the pre defined work order data and work flow data based on configurations to the pre defined work order and work flow data specified by the first client.

The technician control system is configured to leverage pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for the second client . For example processing components of the technician control system are configured to leverage work order data and work flow data that was defined in the technician control system for the second industry prior to establishment of the second client. In this example the technician control system may store data that causes the technician control system to use the pre defined work order and work flow data associated with the second industry for work order requests related to technicians managed by the second client. In some implementations the processing components of the technician control system are configured to leverage the pre defined work order data and work flow data based on configurations to the pre defined work order and work flow data specified by the second client.

In further detail when the process begins a request associated with a work order is received from a technician device . For example a request to start a work order may be received from a technician device.

Pre defined work order data and work flow data related to handling the work order is accessed based on an industry of the technician device . For instance pre defined work order data and work flow data for the industry associated with the work order is accessed from electronic storage. In some implementations the technician control system may determine from among multiple different industries an industry associated with the technician device and access from at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for the determined industry. In these implementations the technician control system may determine the industry of the technician device by analyzing the work order related to the request or by accessing data from storage or communications received from the technician device that indicates the industry of the technician device.

In other implementations the technician control system may identify from among multiple clients a client associated with the technician device and access from at least one electronic data store pre defined work order data and work flow data for which the technician control system has been configured to leverage for the identified client. In these implementations upon establishment of the client the technician control system may have been configured to leverage work order data and work flow data associated with the industry of the client for all technician devices managed by the client.

User interface display and data collection related to the work order is controlled based on the work order data . For instance as a technician is completing a work order using a technician device graphical user interfaces displayed at each step in completing the work order are generated based on the work order data. The graphical user interfaces are generated by accessing work order data that includes formatting definitions e.g. skins associated with the work order and data collection definitions associated with the work order. Aesthetic appearance of the graphical user interfaces is generated based on the formatting definitions e.g. skins and data entry controls fields are generated based on the data collection definitions.

Processing flow related to handling the work order is controlled based on the work flow data . For instance as a technician is completing a work order using a technician device a flow of the graphical user interfaces displayed or other actions is controlled using the work flow data. The work flow data may define steps needed to complete the work order and an order in which the steps are to be performed. The work flow data may be used to display a graphical user interface defined for a step of the work order currently being completed by the technician and then when the step is completed used to select a next graphical user interface defined for the next step of the work order.

Next the technician control system determines whether the work order request is an install work order a downgrade work order a disconnect work order a reconnect work order a restart work order an upgrade work order or a change of service work order. Based on the determinations that more specifically identify the type of the work order request the technician control system accesses the work order data e.g. related to the specific type of request and handles the work order request based on the accessed work order data. For instance when the work order request is an install work order the technician control system accesses the install work order data . When the work order request is a downgrade work order the technician control system accesses the downgrade work order data . Further when the work order request is an disconnect work order the technician control system accesses the disconnect work order data .

In addition when the work order request is a reconnect work order the technician control system accesses the reconnect work order data . When the work order request is a restart work order the technician control system accesses the restart work order data . When the work order request is an upgrade work order the technician control system accesses the upgrade work order data . When the work order request is a change of service work order the technician control system accesses the change of service work order data . The technician control system then handles the work order using the accessed work order data.

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In another implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In yet another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware or in combinations of computer hardware and firmware or software. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

