---

title: Image sensor formed by silicon rich oxide material
abstract: An image sensor includes a light-sensing element, a first transistor, and a second transistor. The light-sensing element has a first end and a second end electrically connected to a select line. The first transistor has a first end electrically connected to a first control line, a control end electrically connected to the first end, and a second end electrically connected to the first end of the light-sensing element. The second transistor has a first end electrically connected to a voltage source, a control end electrically connected to the first end of the light-sensing element, and a second end electrically connected to an output line. The light-sensing element uses the material of silicon rich oxide so that the light-sensing element can sense the luminance variance and have the characteristic of the capacitor for the level boost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08835829&OS=08835829&RS=08835829
owner: AU Optronics Corp.
number: 08835829
owner_city: Science-Based Industrial Park, Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20121107
---
This application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 561 277 filed Sep. 17 2009 the entire contents of which are included herein by reference.

The present invention is related to an image sensor and more particularly to an image sensor formed by the silicon rich oxide material.

The conventional image sensor utilizes the built in amplifier component of each pixel to amplify the photoelectric conversion signal. Each pixel then utilizes the XY addressing method to select for obtaining the voltage level of the photoelectric conversion signal. Since each pixel includes the built in amplifier component the photoelectric component i.e. the light sensing component generates the sensing signal of photo charges when beamed with light and the sensing signal is amplified by the built in amplifier component accordingly. This way the sensing signal is not easily affected by the noise when being transmitted from the photoelectric component to the external control circuit. From the circuit design s point of view the sensitivity of the image sensor is dependent on three main factors. The first factor is the area of the light sensing component. Fundamentally the area of the light sensing component is directly proportional to the intensity of the sensed photo charges under identical luminance increasing the area of the light sensing component increases the photo charges generated by the light sensing component. The second factor is the capacitance of the integrating capacitor. Theoretically under the same stored electrical charge the voltage at the two ends of the capacitor is inversely proportional to the capacitance increasing the capacitance decreases the voltage at the two ends of the capacitor. The third factor is the gain of the sensing amplifier of the light sensing component.

The present invention discloses an image sensor. The image sensor comprises a light sensing component a first transistor and a second transistor. The light sensing component has a first end and a second end electrically connected to a select line. The first transistor has a first end electrically connected to a first control line a control end electrically connected to the first end and a second end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component. The second transistor has a first end electrically connected to a voltage source a control end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component and a second end electrically connected to an output line.

The present invention further discloses an image sensor. The image sensor comprises a light sensing component a diode and a source follower. The light sensing component has a first end and a second end electrically connected to a select line. The diode has a first end electrically connected to a control line and a second end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component. The source follower has an input end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component and an output end electrically connected to an output line for outputting a sensing voltage generated by the light sensing component.

The present invention further discloses a method for detecting the luminance variation by using an image sensor the image sensor comprising a light sensing component having a first end and a second end electrically connected to a select line a first transistor having a first end electrically connected to a control line a control end electrically connected to the first end and a second end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component and a second transistor having a first end electrically connected to a voltage source a control end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component and a second end electrically connected to an output line. The method comprises the control line transmitting a high level voltage to turn on the first transistor for resetting a voltage level of the light sensing component the control line transmitting a low level voltage to turn off the first transistor for the light sensing component to generate a voltage drop when sensing light and the select line transmitting the high level voltage for transmitting the voltage drop to the output line via the second transistor.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

Please refer to . is a circuit diagram illustrating the image sensor according to the first embodiment of the present invention. The light sensor comprises a first transistor a light sensing component a second transistor and a reference current source . In the present invention the light sensing component can be realized with a capacitor formed by a metal layer a silicon rich oxide layer and a transparent metal layer wherein the transparent metal layer can be made of Indium Tin Oxide ITO . One end of the light sensing component is electrically connected to the row select line S and the other end of the light sensing component is electrically connected to the source electrode of the first transistor and the gate electrode of the second transistor . The gate electrode and the source electrode of the first transistor are electrically connected to form a diode component which is controlled by the reset signal line S. The drain electrode of the second transistor is electrically connected to the voltage source VDD the gate electrode of the second transistor is electrically connected to the light sensing component and the source electrode of the transistor forming a source follower which functions as the capacitance voltage amplifier the source electrode of the second transistor is electrically connected to the column output line S. The reference current source is electrically connected to the column output line S the reference current source provides the output current according to a reference voltage VREF.

Please refer to . is a waveform diagram illustrating the operation sequence of the image sensor of the present invention. The operation sequence of the image sensor can be roughly categorized into the reset phase T the integration phase T and the reading phase T. The operation sequence of the image sensor is explained as below 

Step 1 When the reset signal S is at the low voltage level VSS the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component is floating. When the reset signal S is converted from the low voltage level VSS to the high voltage level VREF the image sensor enters the reset phase T and the diode component formed by the first transistor is turned on due to the component operating in forward bias. When the reset signal line S is at the high voltage level VREF the node A of the light sensing component is charged to the voltage level of VREF Vth since the diode component is operating in forward bias wherein Vth represents the threshold voltage of the first transistor .

Step 2 When the reset signal S is converted from the high voltage level VREF to the low voltage level VSS the diode component formed by the first transistor is turned off due to the component operating in reverse bias. At the moment the voltage drop between the two ends of the light sensing component is VREF Vth VSS and the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component is floating the image sensor enters the integration phase T.

Step 3 when the image sensor is in the integration phase T the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component varies according to the luminance of the incident light. When the light sensing component is beamed with light the node A of the light sensing component generates photo charges. The generated photo charges neutralize the stored charges of the node A of the light sensing component diminishing the voltage drop between the two ends of the light sensing component . The higher the luminance of the incident light the lower the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component . For instances when the light luminance B is greater than the light luminance A i.e. Lux B Lux A the gradient of the decreasing rate of the voltage level of the node A for the light luminance A is also greater than that of the light luminance B i.e. mB mA 

Step 4 Since the diode component of the first transistor is turned off due to the component operating in reverse bias the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component is still floating. When the row select line S is converted from the low voltage level VSS to the high voltage level VREF the voltage level of the node A increases by VREF VSS accordingly as the voltage drop between the two ends of the light sensing component with characteristics of a capacitor does not change instantaneously.

Step 5 When the voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component has increased by VREF VSS due to the light sensing component with the characteristics of the capacitor the voltage level of the node A is sufficient to turn on the second transistor of the source follower.

Step 6 When the second transistor of the source follower is turned on the signal equivalent to the voltage level of the node A of the column output line S is equivalent to the increased voltage level of the node A of the light sensing component subtracting the threshold voltage Vth of the second transistor . For instances the signal of the column output line S is VA Vth for the light luminance Lux A and VB Vth for the light luminance Lux B.

Please refer to . is a diagram illustrating the cross section view of the image sensor of the present invention. A first transistor and a second transistor are formed on the substrate . A gate oxide layer a first insulation layer and a second insulation layer are formed between the first transistor the second transistor and the light sensing component . The first transistor is an N type Metal Oxide Semiconductor NMOS transistor comprises a gate electrode a source electrode and a drain electrode . The second transistor is an NMOS transistor comprises a gate electrode a source electrode and a drain electrode . The light sensing component comprises a metal layer a silicon rich oxide layer and a transparent metal layer .

Please refer to . is a diagram illustrating the image sensor according to the second embodiment of the present invention. The image sensor comprises a first transistor a light sensing component a second transistor and a third transistor . In the second embodiment the third transistor is utilized to replace the reference current source . The row output line S is electrically connected to the drain electrode of the third transistor the gate electrode of the third transistor is controlled by the signal line Vb the source electrode of the third transistor is electrically connected to the reference voltage source VREF.

Please refer to . is a diagram illustrating the image sensor according to the third embodiment of the present invention. The image sensor comprises a diode a light sensing component a second transistor a sampling capacitor and a third transistor . In the third embodiment the sampling capacitor and the third transistor are utilized to replace the reference current source . In addition the diode also replaces the first transistor . The row output line S is electrically connected to the drain electrode of the third transistor and one end of the sampling capacitor the gate electrode of the third transistor is controlled by the signal line REST the source electrode of the third transistor is electrically connected to the other end of the sampling capacitor and the reference voltage source VREF.

In conclusion the image sensor of the present invention comprises a light sensing component a first transistor and a second transistor. The light sensing component comprises a first end and a second end electrically connected to a select line. The first transistor comprises a first end electrically connected to a first control line a control end electrically connected to the first end and a second end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component. The second transistor comprises a first end electrically connected to a voltage source a control end electrically connected to the first end of the light sensing component and a second end electrically connected to an output line. The light sensing component is made of silicon rich oxide material so the light sensing component is able to detect the variation of the light luminance. At the same time the light sensing component possesses the characteristics of the integrating capacitor and can be utilized for increasing the corresponding voltage level. Therefore the image sensor of the present invention utilizes two transistors and the light sensing component made of the silicon rich oxide material for simplifying the circuit structure.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

