---

title: Availability risk assessment, system modeling
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to, among other things, determining whether some or all portions of an application stack implemented on a distributed system are vulnerable to availability issues. In some examples, a web service may utilize or otherwise control a client instance to control, access, or otherwise manage resources of a distributed system. Based at least in part on comparing one or more customer graphs with one or more model, curated, or best practice graphs of a distributed system, availability risks and/or deployment recommendations may be provided. Additionally, in some examples, one or more remediation and/or migration operations may be performed automatically or provided as recommendations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137110&OS=09137110&RS=09137110
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09137110
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120816
---
The present application is related to application Ser. No. 13 587 801 filed on the same day herewith entitled COMPUTING RESOURCE AVAILABILITY RISK ASSESSMENT USING GRAPH COMPARISON application Ser. No. 13 587 841 filed on the same day herewith entitled Computing Resource Availability Risk Assessment Using Graph Comparison and application Ser. No. 13 587 868 filed on the same day herewith entitled AVAILABILITY RISK ASSESSMENT RESOURCE SIMULATION the entire contents of each is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 120.

Many data storage services web services and or computing devices offer one or more different resource usage and or allocation configurations. For example a web service may be distributed may utilize virtualization may provide different types of memory storage and or may provide various configuration options. Additionally a distributed web service such as a remote program execution service may be designed to enable customers to design remotely hosted applications in a manner that is available even when portions of the hosting infrastructure are unavailable. For example by deploying resources in more than one physical location or region the applications may maintain availability even if one physical location or region fails. Other distributed web service products may also provide increased availability to customers and or consumers. However many customers remain unaware of the various ways to increase resource availability.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things assessing identifying and or providing resource availability risks regarding electronic resources e.g. web resources cloud resources etc. via a service provider. In some examples web service users or customers may utilize or otherwise control a client entity of the service provider to control access or otherwise manage electronic resources. As used herein a client entity may include one or more virtual machine instances configured to access data of a distributed computing system e.g. provided by the distributed system and acting on behalf of a client or user of the system . In some aspects the service provider may provide storage access and or placement of one or more computing resources through a service such as but not limited to a web service a remote program execution service or other network based data management service. For example a user or client entity may access via the service provider data storage and or management such that access mechanisms may be implemented and or provided to the client entity utilizing the computing resources. In some examples computing resource services such as those provided by the service provider may include one or more computing resources accessible across one or more networks through user interfaces UIs application programming interfaces APIs and or other interfaces where the one or more computing resources may be scalable and or expandable as desired.

In some examples the computing resources may be server computer systems in a distributed computing environment although other computing resources are considered as being within the scope of the present disclosure some examples of which are provided below. Additionally in some examples resource availability risks associated with one or more resources e.g. virtual instances web applications etc. of the distributed systems may be assessed or otherwise determined based at least in part on one or more best practice graphs user settings configurations requests triggers and or membership levels. For example one or more best practice graphs associated with the distributed system may be generated over time based at least in part on historical information customer comments requests or reviews and or known optimization techniques. As used herein a best practice graph may be based at least in part one or more configuration or usage guidelines. Further the graph may be a visual or virtual representation of an application stack cluster of virtual instances or the like. For example a best practice graph may include one or more nodes connected by edges where the nodes represent electronic resources such as web links client instances physical servers server farms etc. in a cluster or otherwise in communication with one another and the edges represent relative weights assigned to each node pair. In at least one example the relative weights may be based at least in part on a risk or cost of breaking any link between the two connected nodes.

Additionally in some aspects a user or client may access a client entity of a distributed system for attaching data sets data volumes data blocks or the like to the client entity for accessing manipulating and or processing the data by the client entity. That is a client entity may request that particular data volumes be operationally attached to the client entity. In some aspects operationally attaching data volumes may include generating storing maintaining and or updating a mapping of data stored in the data volume such that the client entity may perform input and or output I O operations on the data. For example data may be read from the attached data volume and or written to the attached data volume by the client entity. According to some examples data volumes that are attached may be stored in a relatively low latency type of memory such that the I O operations performed on the data may be performed in a faster i.e. lower latency fashion.

Data volumes that are attached to client instances i.e. client entities or virtual machine instances in some examples may be stored in one or more primary memory spaces e.g. low latency memory or in one or more backup memory spaces e.g. high latency memory durable memory and or other low latency memory . In some cases the attached data volumes may be stored in both primary memory spaces and backup memory spaces. In this way one or more layers of redundancy may help protect from data loss or corruption. Additionally in some aspects a user or client entity may request to detach a data volume when for example the user or client entity may not plan to access or otherwise perform I O operations on the data volume for a foreseeable amount of time. For example a data volume may include resources for operating a seasonal website or other service that operates periodically. Alternatively or in addition the data volume may include resources for application development that may be complete or otherwise no longer needed. As such it may not be desirable to maintain attachment to the client entity at all times. Further in some examples a client instance may be taken down removed or otherwise deactivated such that it is no longer operational. In this case attached data volumes may be detached as a matter of course. However in some examples although a data volume may be detached for one or more particular reasons the data volume may continue to be stored in the low latency memory space and or the backup memory space.

Client instances and or data volumes may also be organized in clusters and or in one or more separate geographic areas. Geographic areas may include regions and or zones. In some examples zones may be distinct locations that are configured to be insulated from failures in other zones and provide inexpensive low latency connectivity to other zones in the same region. The distinct locations may be for example data centers or other facilities each having a different postal address. A zone may also include multiple such facilities. By launching client instances in separate zones a customer may be able to protect applications from failure of a single location. In some examples regions include one or more zones may be geographically dispersed and may be in separate geographic areas or countries. For example a group of servers or server farms located in separate cities states countries continents etc. may operate one or more client instances. That is in some examples a customer may request that the service provider spin up or otherwise provision multiple client instances with at least one in the United States and another in Europe. In this way if a location specific event occurs that takes down the servers in Europe subsequent requests for the resource could be routed to the servers in the U.S. Additionally in this example a load balancer and or other controller could manage load and or bandwidth issues at each instance such that interruptions to the web service may be minimized.

Additionally in some aspects one or more graphs may be generated to represent customer applications customer application stack deployment and or client instances within a web service environment cluster or other grouping. In some cases the distributed system a service provided by the distributed system or a service provided by a third party hereinafter service provider may receive information about client instances associated with an application stack of a customer infer and or classify information flow and or dependencies of the stack and generate a graph based at least in part on the received information the inferences the flows and or the dependencies. For example the service provider may infer the role and or relative significance of each client instance in a cluster of instances. The service provider may then assign relative values to the cost of breaking any link between any two nodes within the cluster. Further the service provider may generate a graph made up of instance nodes joined by edges that represent relative usage of the resource and or a relative availability risk if a link or node at either end of a given edge becomes unavailable. In some cases if this information is based at least in part on a customer application stack cluster etc. the generated graph may be a customer graph.

However the service provider may also generate and or receive one or more best practice or curated graphs for a distributed system or environment. In some cases a best practice graph may include graphs known to provide commonly deployed application cluster setups graphs representing application setups that are known to be safe at least relative to other setups and or graphs representing application setups that are known to yield good results and or provide high customer satisfaction low latency high redundancy low cost etc. for a controlling account and or account holder of the distributed system and or the service provider. In some cases best practice graphs or model graphs may be generated and collected into a set of best practice graphs for a particular distributed system. Different sets or libraries of best practice graphs may be cultivated collected stored or otherwise managed for each of a plurality of different distributed systems or environments. In some examples each of the sets may include arbitrary application clusters created by curated graphs based on known characteristics of nodes and edges pulled from the accumulated data and or generated graphs of each distributed system. The service provider may then perform various types of speculative analyses on these model graphs to test arbitrary scenarios and or provide recommendations for setting up controlling and or managing web service applications and or for migrating the web service applications to other distributed systems. In some aspects based at least in part on a comparison between a customer graph and one or more model graphs and or arbitrary graphs of each distributed system recommendations can be made regarding the customer graph and or the application stack from which the customer graph was generated.

In some aspects the service providers may collect data from live operation and or static attributes of a client instance application stack or other electronic resource of a distributed system. The data may be live i.e. collected based at least in part on monitored operation and or activities or it may be static i.e. collected based at least in part on the application stack as configured to be operated . The data may be utilized to generate customer graphs which may in some cases be compared with one or more model graphs associated with the distributed system. Among the model graphs an ideal graph may be selected or otherwise identified based at least in part on its similarity with the customer graph. Further based at least in part on the identified ideal graph availability risks associated with the particular configuration that generated the ideal graph may be assessed. In this instance a configuration may describe a topology or other type of arrangement such as a cluster or other grouping . However in other instances a configuration may describe a setting or preference. In either case the particular definition will be apparent based at least in part on the context in which it is used. The assessed availability risks may be reported to a user customer account holder etc. associated with the application stack client instance and or web service application. Additionally in some aspects the service provider may make recommendations to the customer regarding ways in which the identified availability risks may be avoided or otherwise mitigated. For example the service provider may recommend that the customer deploy client instances in one or more additional regions or zones.

In some aspects the service providers may collect application and or client instance template information from the distributed system or the customer managing the application and or client instance. Template information may include a template itself including the representative data or the data of the template. Template information may also include user provided annotations that indicate relative significance and or roles of client instances within the application stack. In some instances a template may be a file or a collection of data that describes a customer s availability instance graphs e.g. a customer graph . That is the template may be a document that describes how a cloud application cluster is to be configured deployed or otherwise setup. It may include a detailed declaration of intent that can be consumed by the service provider or other computer program to construct the desired application cluster. As such the service providers may be able to construct a customer graph based at least in part on the received template or template information. The service providers may also be able to infer roles and or a relative significance for each node and or edge of the customer graph based at least in part on the template information. For example the role and or relative significance may be determined based at least in part on the user provided annotations when provided . In some cases once the customer graph is generated the service providers may be able to compare it with one or more of the model graphs described above to identify an ideal graph. Availability risks may be assessed and or recommendations may then be provided based at least in part on the identified ideal graph.

In some aspects the service providers may collect application and or client instance information based at least in part on simulating the application stack for any given customer. Additionally the simulation may be based at least in part on one or more templates and or one or more previously generated customer graphs. In some examples a service provider may instantiate an application cluster including but not limited to being based at least in part on the template information within a controlled runtime environment. Further the service provider may introduce disruptions into the environment and in some examples have the customer or a computer process or agent indicate when the applications experience degradations. Based at least in part on correlating the identified degradations and service outage information with the disruptive signals introduced the service provider may be able to propose an augmented ideal graph that may guard against such actual disruptions. In this way availability risk assessment may be performed and or recommendations for custom configurations may be provided.

The service provider may also be configured to determine resource allocation advice in some examples based at least in part on the identified ideal graphs and or the availability risk determinations. A remediation plan may also be determined. For example if it is determined that client instances should be deployed in three different zones or regions the remediation plan may include a recommendation and or an instruction to instantiate client instances in those zones or regions. In some aspects the service provider may be configured to perform the remediation plan automatically. Additionally automatic remediation may be configured by the user such that only certain remediation operations are performed automatically. In this case remediation plans that are not performed automatically may still be indicated to the customer as in an alert text message email pop up window etc. . That is the service provider may transmit or otherwise notify the user of the remediation plan and or an instruction for performing the remediation plan without automatically performing the remediation. Remediation plans may also include one click remediation to fix determined issues third party remediation options and or information regarding how to consult a remediation advisor for additional help. Additionally in some aspects the availability risk assessment and or remediation actions and or recommendations may be performed or otherwise provided by third party services. Further in some aspects user or customers may be charged a commission based at least in part on the savings or performance increase generated from the availability risk assessments and or the remediation actions.

More specifically a service provider computer such as a server operated by a financial institution an online merchant a news publication company a web services company a social networking company or the like may maintain and or backup data volumes for one or more client entities of a distributed computing system. The service provider computer may also receive requests to backup data volumes associated with the client entities to attach and or detach data volumes to the client entities and or to utilize other resources and or services of the service provider. Additionally in some examples the service provider may receive determine and or otherwise collect statistical information associated with the resource e.g. client entities data volumes and or services in order to perform the availability risk assessments and or generate the customer graphs.

This brief introduction including section titles and corresponding summaries is provided for the reader s convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims nor the preceding sections. Furthermore the techniques described above and below may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. Several example implementations and contexts are provided with reference to the following figures as described below in more detail. However the following implementations and contexts are but a few of many.

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of many different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks and other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the web service application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with a service provider computer via the one or more user devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

As described briefly above the web service application may allow the users to interact with a service provider computer such as to store access and or manage data develop and or deploy computer applications and or host web content. The one or more service provider computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may host the web service application . Other server architectures may also be used to host the web service application . The web service application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user devices such as but not limited to the resource management console . The web service application can be any type of website that supports user interaction including social networking sites online retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. As discussed above the described techniques can similarly be implemented outside of the web service application such as with other applications running on the user devices .

As noted above the architecture may include one or more user devices . The user devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. In some examples the user devices may be in communication with the service provider computers and or the risk assessment computers via the networks or via other network connections. While the following description may regularly refer to interaction between the user devices and the service provider computers it is to be understood that any communication to or from the user devices may be via either or both of the service provider computers or the risk assessment computers .

In one illustrative configuration the user devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least the resource management console such as web browsers or dedicated applications e.g. smart phone applications tablet applications etc. and or the web service application . The resource management console may be configured to receive store and or display a website or other interface for interacting with the service provider computers and or the risk assessment computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords and or other user information. In some examples the user information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. In addition the user information may include a user provided response to a security question or a geographic location obtained by the user device .

Additionally in some aspects the resource management console may allow a user to interact with a web services account of the service provider computers . For example the user may request that computing resources be allocated to instantiate a client instance or entity on behalf of the user . Further the client instance may then be physically or virtually attached to one or more data stores via interaction between the user and the resource management console . Also utilizing the resource management console in some examples a user may request that snapshots e.g. backup copies described in further detail below of attached data sets be stored in additional memory spaces. For example a snapshot request may involve backing up one or more portions of data volumes or entire data volumes on behalf of the user . In some aspects however a snapshot may involve only storing a backup of data that has changed within a data set since the last snapshot backup or creation of the data set. For example if a first snapshot is taken that generates a backup of an entire data volume a second snapshot requested after only a few bytes of the volume have changed may only back up the particular few bytes of the volume that have changed. The resource management console may also be configured to receive organize store and or manage account settings and or preferences. For example configuration settings associated with how many instances to utilize what network ports to open whether to purchase reserved instances locations regions and or zones in which instances and or data should be hosted and or stored user preferred security settings load balancer settings etc. may be received from stored on behalf of and or managed on behalf of the user and or account via the resource management console .

Further in some aspects the resource management console may be configured to receive requests from the users to assess availability risks and or simulate configuration settings of the resources provided by the service provider computer . For example utilizing the resource management console a user may configure a web services account of the service provider computers to instantiate a virtual client instance to run a website and or attach data volumes for consumption by the virtual client instance. The user may then in some examples utilize the resource management console to request that the availability risks of the client instance and or attached data volumes i.e. the application cluster and or stack be assessed or modeled. The users may also utilize the resource management console to request recommendations for limiting availability risks of the virtual resources. As used herein availability risk assessment may include but is not limited to determining whether some or all of a user s application stack is vulnerable to single availability zone failures. That is relative availability risks may define relative values or costs associated with a client instance becoming unavailable due at least in part to a server failure or other event within a particular regions zone location etc.

Further in some examples the resource management console may display or otherwise provide resource recommendations provided by the service provider computers for lessening or otherwise mitigating identified availability risks. The resource management console may also act as a migration interface when the service provider computers are used as a migration advisor. That is in some examples the service provider computers may provide migration recommendations and or services associated with migrating services from one or more web services to one or more other web services such as but not limited to migrating services from a first distributed computing system to a second distributed computing system or vice versa.

In some aspects the service provider computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client and or cloud computing devices such as servers. In some examples the service provider computers may be in communication with the user devices and or the risk assessment computers via the networks or via other network connections. The service provider computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to host a website or combination of websites viewable via the user devices or a web browser accessible by a user . Additionally in some aspects the service provider computers may be configured to perform resource risk assessment as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the service provider computers may include at least one memory at least one low latency memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of service provider computers the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The service provider computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media.

The service provider computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the service provider computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The service provider computers may also include input output I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a user application module an account management module and or a virtual machine instance module . The user application module may be configured to generate host or otherwise provide the resource management console and or a website for accessing the resource management console e.g. the web service application to users .

In some examples the account management module may be configured to maintain or otherwise store account information associated with requested resources data and or services. The account information may include account holder information the user ID the password acceptable answers to challenge questions etc. In some aspects the virtual machine instance module may be configured to operate as a hypervisor or other virtualization system. For example the virtual machine instance module may create generate instantiate or otherwise provide one or more virtual machine instances i.e. a client entity of the distributed system to a user by providing one or more guest operating systems that may operate on behalf of the user . That is in some examples a user may operate a virtual machine instance as if the operations were being performed by one or more processors of a user device . As such the virtual machine instance may be considered a client entity acting on behalf of user and or accessing data data sets data volumes data blocks etc. of the one or more service provider computers .

Additionally in some examples the one or more service provider computers may include a low latency memory . The low latency memory may include one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a data volume module . In some examples as shown in the data volume module may be configured to implement host or otherwise manage data stored in a data set . As noted above in some aspects a user may make requests for attaching and or detaching data sets from one or more virtual machine instances i.e. client entities and or for backing up e.g. taking a snapshot of data of the attached data volumes. For example a user may be an application programmer testing code using a virtual machine instance and an attached data set of the service provider computers . In this non limiting example while the code is being tested the user may have the data set attached to the virtual machine instance and may request that one or more I O operations be performed on the attached data set . During and or after testing of the code the user may make one or more backup e.g. snapshot requests of the attached data set . However in some examples once the testing is complete the user may request that the attached data set be detached from the virtual machine instance .

Further other operations and or configurations utilizing the virtual machine instance and or the data set may be envisioned as desired for implementing a web service on behalf of a user . For example a user may be a website owner using a virtual machine instance and an attached data set of the service provider computers to host the website. In this non limiting example the data set may be attached to the virtual machine instance while the website is operational. Additionally in some examples multiple virtual machine instances may be instantiated to host the website and each virtual machine instance may be attached to the data set or a plurality of data sets . Additionally as discussed above each virtual machine instance may be hosted by servers or server farms located in different physical regions zones locations etc.

Returning to the contents of the memory in more detail the user application module may also store resource templates annotations and or configurations . As described above in some instances a resource template may be a file or a collection of data that describes a user s virtual machine instance deployments. That is the resource template may be a document that describes how a cloud application cluster is to be configured deployed or otherwise setup. It may include a detailed declaration of intent that can be consumed by the service provider computers or other computer program to construct the desired application cluster i.e. the specific setup of interaction between the virtual machine instance and another virtual machine instance and or a data set . In some cases the service provider computers may receive the resource templates via the web service application and or resource management console of the user devices . Further in some examples the resource templates and or other data files may include template annotations and or resource configuration information . Template annotations may be user provided hints or indications of resource role and or significance within the application cluster. For example a user may indicate that a particular virtual machine instance is a parent node a child node a backup node etc. Further configuration information may include other application stack information including but not limited load balancer settings availability zone settings operational timing settings etc.

Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computers may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Additionally in some aspects the risk assessment computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client and or cloud computing devices such as servers. In some examples the risk assessment computers may be in communication with the user devices and or the service provider computers via the networks or via other network connections. The risk assessment computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to perform resource risk assessment as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the risk assessment computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of risk assessment computers the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The risk assessment computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

The memory and the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. Additional types of computer storage media that may be present in the service provider computers may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the service provider computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

The risk assessment computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the risk assessment computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The risk assessment computers may also include input output I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a risk assessment module . The risk assessment module may be configured to determine resource availability risks for customer application stacks and or generate component models for one or more distributed computing systems.

In some examples the risk assessment module may be configured to receive resource information e.g. information associated with one or more client instances of a distributed system generate customer graphs associated with the received information generate and or receive model graphs i.e. best practice graphs for the distributed system and or one or more other distributed systems and determine resource availability risks. In some cases determining the resource availability risks may include but is not limited to comparing customer graphs with model graphs to identify an ideal graph. The ideal graph may then provide information for assessing the availability risks recommending risk mitigation and or recommending migration to a different distributed system. A graph may be a graph in the mathematical sense e.g. directed graph a symmetric graph or other similar data structure . Thus the graph may comprise a plurality of nodes connected by edges or links. The nodes may represent electronic resources such as web links client instances physical servers server farms etc. in a cluster or otherwise in communication with one another. The edges may represent relative weights assigned to each node pair that may be based at least in part on the associated risk or cost of breaking each link between the two connected nodes. An edge may connect two nodes when the corresponding nodes have some sort of relationship e.g. depend on one another link to or from one another are reachable via one another etc. . The graph may be encoded and or stored electronically in any suitable manner.

In at least one non limiting example the risk assessment module may implement a risk assessor for monitoring resources of the service provider computers and or collecting information associated with the monitored resources. For example the risk assessor may be configured to receive operational information e.g. live data associated with operation of resources associated with a virtual machine instance and or a data set . That is while a virtual machine instance is operating e.g. as a web server to a user the risk assessor may collect dependency and or flow information associated with the virtual machine instance . The risk assessor may also be able to monitor and or receive information associated with resource templates data sets and or annotations configurations . A few examples of the operations of the risk assessment computers and or the service provider computers are described in greater detail below with reference to .

Additionally in some aspects the graphing module or the risk assessor in general may be configured to infer the role and relative significance of each client instance in a cluster of instances based at least in part on measuring and or recording various properties of the instances either during an operation or based at least in part on configuration information . For example the risk assessor may be able to infer the role of an instance based at least in part on the composition of the machine image from which the client instance was instantiated e.g. was the image from a Microsoft Windows Database Server a Citrix NetScaler Appliance a Ubuntu LAMP stack image etc. . The risk assessor may also be able to infer the role of an instance based at least in part on firewall rules security groups routing rules and or a number and or configuration of network interfaces attached to the instance. The role may also be inferred based at least in part on the instances use of available resources over time. For example an instance with a large amount of memory that typically writes little to disk sporadically reads from disk doesn t initiate many new connections but receives a large amount of incoming network connection requests may be a memory cache of some sort. As such a memory cache role may be inferred for this instance.

Additionally the risk assessor may be able to infer the role and or relative significance of an instance within a cluster based at least in part on network flow patterns. For example in master slave server client modeled application stacks the master server instance may be more likely to have more distinct connections coming to it from other instances in the cluster than the slave servers. As such a master or slave role and or significance may be inferred for this instance. The role and or relative significance of an instance may also be inferred for an instance based at least in part on taking a census of various protocols of packets flowing into the instance and to and or from where such packs come. Having inferred the roles relative significances and or interdependencies of instances within a cluster the graphing module may then be configured to assign relative values to the cost of breaking any link between any two nodes within the cluster i.e. between any two instances in a cluster . For example links that experience more traffic than others may cost more than links that experience less traffic. Additionally links that experience the same kind of traffic may be redundant and thus may cost less per link if unavailable.

In some examples the graphing module may also be configured to generate a customer graph to represent the client instances of the cluster configuration arrangement grouping etc. That is each node may represent a single instance of the cluster i.e. based at least in part on an application stack while the edges which connect nodes may represent a relative usage value which may translate to relative availability risk if a link or node at either end of a given edge becomes unavailable . Additionally in some aspects the relative values assigned to each edge are shown for example only by the thickness of the lines. For example in the edge between instance 1 and instance 7 may be illustrated as the thickest and thus may represent the highest valued edge in this illustration. In some examples the graph generated from a particular application stack may be considered a customer graph. Further while the graph of depicts a graph with seven nodes representing seven instances instance 1 instance 7 and sixteen edges any number of nodes and or edges may be envisioned. Additionally each instance may include one or more attributes . Attributes may be based at least in part on annotations of a template or other configuration information. Attributes may also be based at least in part on metadata associated with each instance. Attributes may include but are not limited to correlated failures e.g. the likelihood of one instance failure will affect other instances regions datacenters racks within a datacenter buildings within a datacenter power sources within a building etc. associated with each instance. In some aspects each instance may be associated with different attributes or different sets of attributes however some instances may share attributes with other instances. For example the attributes may indicate particular correlated failures regions datacenters racks and or power sources associated with instance 6 while the attributes may only indicate a region and or a datacenter associated with instance 7. By way of example only the attributes may indicate that instance 6 and instance 7 may be located within the same region and or at the same datacenter. However in other examples they may be located at different data centers of the same region or the like.

In some aspects the risk assessor may also include a template annotations module . The template annotations module may be configured to provide a user interface via at least the resource management console of the user device for a user to submit one or more resource templates. As noted above a resource template may include but is not limited to configuration information for setting up an application cluster or one or more client instances. As such a user may fill in or otherwise generate and provide a resource template for a particular application cluster. In some examples the template annotations module may be further configured to receive the template information infer roles and relative significances of client instances and pass this information to the graphing module . In this way the graphing module may generate a customer graph based at least in part on the template information. Additionally the template annotations module may also provide an interface for a user to enter instance annotations. In some examples these instance annotations may be utilized by the template annotations module and or the graphing module to supplement the customer graphs . In at least one example the customer graph may be generated based at least in part on the annotations. However in other examples the customer graph may be generated without the use of the annotations and then the customer graph may be altered e.g. the weights of the edges maybe changed based at least in part on the annotations.

Additionally in some aspects the risk assessor may also include a simulation module . The simulation module may be configured to simulate one or more client instances. Simulation may be performed in a controlled environment in some examples such that disruptions e.g. unavailable servers excessive server requests etc. may be introduced into the environment. In some cases the disruptions may be selected by an administrator of the distributed system by the user automatically by the distributed system based at least in part on a configuration setting combinations of the foregoing or the like. Additionally once disruptions have been introduced into the simulation of the one or more client instances or instance clusters the users or a computer process or agent may indicate whether the simulated application cluster experienced degraded performance. Based at least in part on this indication the simulation module may be configured to correlate user identified degradation and service outage to the disruptive signals introduced in the contained runtime environment. In some cases the simulation module may utilize the correlation information to propose augmented ideal graphs to the user . Such augmented ideal graphs may help guard against disruption when actual events mimic the disruptive signals e.g. outside of the simulation . The augmented ideal graphs may in some cases be machine generated and or curated by users or administrators. Further in some cases the simulation module may generate control or otherwise manage the simulations based at least in part on template information template annotations and or instance configuration information .

In some cases the risk assessor may also include an output module . The output module may be configured to provide output to the service provider computers and or the user devices . In this way the output module may provide risk assessment information ideal graphs recommendations migration information etc. to the users and or to the distributed system environment provided by the service provider computers . For example once the risk assessor identifies an ideal availability graph for a particular customer graph the output module may report known vulnerability links of the graph to the user device and or the service provider computers . Additionally in some examples the output module may be configured to provide recommendations on how to mitigate or otherwise avoid availability issues. In some examples the recommendations may be based at least in part on services specific to the service provider computers and or a web service operated by the service provider computers e.g. elastic load balancers auto scaling groups block storage etc. .

Additionally the output module may also be configured to provide recommendations in a tiered fashion in the event that there are multiple ideal graphs identified by the risk assessor . For example recommendations may be provided based at least in part on several factors including but not limited to the most available resilient ideal graph the cheapest and or most available ideal graph the most available ideal graph with the lowest known or identified latencies etc. In this example the user may set tiered configurations or settings such that only certain factors may be preferred or otherwise tiered based at least in part on importance to the user .

Further in some aspects the risk assessor may be configured to automatically or based at least in part on a setting or configuration of the user introduce remediative components e.g. additional client instances client instances in additional and or different zones regions or locations combinations of the foregoing or the like into the cluster on behalf of the user to rectify an availability risk issue. The risk assessor may introduce the components in some cases only upon approval and or authorization by the user . Additionally in some examples the risk assessor may be configured to provide in some cases via the output module appropriate alerts to the users when changes in the distributed system e.g. physical configuration location etc. changes to the environment increase the availability risk levels of the resources. The risk assessor may provide such alerts on an ongoing basis. Further in some cases the alerts may be based at least in part on what is known of the risk profile of identified ideal graphs which in some cases may be dynamic and based at least in part on the distributed system and or the application stack.

In some examples identifying an ideal graph from the set of model graphs may include but is not limited to comparing the graphs to identify a graph within the set of model graphs that has an ideal graph and is most similar to the customer graph i.e. identifying an ideal graph C for some intermediate graph B that is isomorphic with the customer graph A or its derivative A . Additionally comparing the graphs to identify an ideal graph may involve human matching of the customer graph A or its intermediate graph B to ideal graph C and then setting up the mapping for future automated assignment. In one non limiting example the comparison module may identify ideal graph as the best match for the customer graph . Further having identified the ideal availability graph for the customer graph the risk assessor module may report known vulnerable links to the users via the web service application and or the resource management console of .

As such graph comparison may include determining if two graphs are most similar using the above mentioned isomorphic identification techniques and or intermediate graph identification techniques. Additionally in some aspects other comparison techniques may be performed by the comparison module such as but not limited to node similarity matrix analysis subgraph matching local edge similarity techniques node labeling other isomorphism comparison techniques bijection identification minimum cost transformation techniques minim cost traversal techniques minimum and or maximum common subgraph analysis node and or edge similarity score techniques combinations of the foregoing or the like.

In some examples the model analysis module may be configured to collect data from one or more distributed systems including but not limited to the distributed system hosted by the service provider computers and or other third party distributed computing system providers e.g. cloud service providers etc. . The data collected as described above with respect to the graphing module of may represent nodes edges and or graphs that model common application stacks. Additionally the model analysis module may be configured to compose arbitrary application clusters by creating model graphs based at least in part on known characteristics of nodes and edges from the collected data. As such the model analysis module may include the created model graphs within the appropriate model graph sets . For example if data is collected from the system the model analysis module may generate a model graph based at least in part on the characteristics of the system and include that model graph in the model graph set . Over time the virtual environment may grow to include rather large model graphs representing many different systems .

Additionally the model analysis module may be configured to perform various types of speculative analysis on the model graph sets . In some cases the model analysis module may analyze one or more of the model graph sets individually i.e. sets for individual systems . However in other cases the model analysis module may analyze multiple model graph sets together analyzing model graphs from multiple different model graph sets as part of the same analysis. Analysis of the model graphs may include but is not limited to exercising the model graphs through representative mathematical models neural networks etc. Additionally the analysis may include instantiating physical representations of the model graphs within a controlled environment such as but not limited to the virtual environment and observing the actual availability risk profiles when subjected to disruptions.

Further in some examples the scenario test module may be configured to provide an application programming interface API and or a user interface to the users e.g. via communication between the output module and the resource management console of that facilitates constructing customer and or test model graphs that enable the user to test arbitrary scenarios either computationally or empirically. The tests performed by the scenario test module on behalf of the user and or an administrator of the service provider computers or other systems may allow the component models module the ability to generate and provide recommendations regarding how to deploy an application cluster of the user . That is with data collected from multiple systems the users can utilize the virtual environment of the component models module to model application cluster availability as well as other attributes and characteristics of cloud hosted servers. As such comparisons may be made between deploying an application stack between multiple systems . Similarly the component models module may be able to provide recommendations for an appropriate system from which the users should deploy their applications. Further in some examples the component models module may provide migration recommendations associated with migrating a user s application from a first system to a second system . The risk assessor may utilize the output module in some examples to transmit the results of the scenario test module and or the migration recommendation.

Various instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on some form of computer readable storage media.

As noted in at least one example one or more aspects of the environment or architectures of may incorporate and or be incorporated into a distributed program execution service such as that hosted by the service provider computers . depicts aspects of an example distributed program execution service in accordance with at least one example. The distributed program execution service may provide virtualized computing services including a virtual computer system service and a virtual data store service with a wide variety of computing resources interlinked by a relatively high speed data network. Such computing resources may include processors such as central processing units CPUs volatile storage devices such as RAM nonvolatile storage devices such as flash memory hard drives and optical drives servers such as the service provider computers described above with reference to one or more data stores such as the data set of as well as communication bandwidth in the interlinking network. The computing resources managed by the distributed program execution service are not shown explicitly in because it is an aspect of the distributed program execution service to emphasize an independence of the virtualized computing services from the computing resources that implement them.

The distributed program execution service may utilize the computing resources to implement the virtualized computing services at least in part by executing one or more programs program modules program components and or programmatic objects collectively program components including and or compiled from instructions and or code specified with any suitable machine and or programming language. For example the computing resources may be allocated and reallocated as necessary to facilitate execution of the program components and or the program components may be assigned and reassigned as necessary to the computing resources. Such assignment may include physical relocation of program components for example to enhance execution efficiency. From a perspective of a user of the virtualized computing services the distributed program execution service may supply computing resources elastically and or on demand for example associated with a per resource unit commodity style pricing plan.

The distributed program execution service may further utilize the computing resources to implement a service control plane configured at least to control the virtualized computing services. The service control plane may include a service administration interface . The service administration interface may include a web based user interface configured at least to enable users and or administrators of the virtualized computing services to provision de provision configure and or reconfigure collectively provision suitable aspects of the virtualized computing services. For example a user of the virtual computer system service may provision one or more virtual computer system instances . The user may then configure the provisioned virtual computer system instances to execute the user s application programs. The ellipsis between the virtual computer system instances and as well as with other ellipses throughout this disclosure indicates that the virtual computer system service may support any suitable number e.g. thousands millions and more of virtual computer system instances although for clarity only two are shown.

The service administration interface may further enable users and or administrators to specify and or re specify virtualized computing service policies. Such policies may be maintained and enforced by a service policy enforcement component of the service control plane . For example a storage administration interface portion of the service administration interface may be utilized by users and or administrators of the virtual data store service to specify virtual data store service policies to be maintained and enforced by a storage policy enforcement component of the service policy enforcement component . Various aspects and or facilities of the virtual computer system service and the virtual data store service including the virtual computer system instances the low latency data store the high durability data store and or the underlying computing resources may be controlled with interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs and or web based service interfaces. In at least one example the control plane further includes a workflow component configured at least to interact with and or guide interaction with the interfaces of the various aspects and or facilities of the virtual computer system service and the virtual data store service in accordance with one or more workflows.

In at least one embodiment service administration interface and or the service policy enforcement component may create and or cause the workflow component to create one or more workflows that are then maintained by the workflow component . Workflows such as provisioning workflows and policy enforcement workflows may include one or more sequences of tasks to be executed to perform a job such as provisioning or policy enforcement. A workflow as the term is used herein is not the tasks themselves but a task control structure that may control flow of information to and from tasks as well as the order of execution of the tasks it controls. For example a workflow may be considered a state machine that can manage and return the state of a process at any time during execution. Workflows may be created from workflow templates. For example a provisioning workflow may be created from a provisioning workflow template configured with parameters by the service administration interface . As another example a policy enforcement workflow may be created from a policy enforcement workflow template configured with parameters by the service policy enforcement component .

The workflow component may modify further specify and or further configure established workflows. For example the workflow component may select particular computing resources of the distributed program execution service to execute and or be assigned to particular tasks. Such selection may be based at least in part on the computing resource needs of the particular task as assessed by the workflow component . As another example the workflow component may add additional and or duplicate tasks to an established workflow and or reconfigure information flow between tasks in the established workflow. Such modification of established workflows may be based at least in part on an execution efficiency analysis by the workflow component . For example some tasks may be efficiently performed in parallel while other tasks depend on the successful completion of previous tasks.

The virtual data store service may include multiple types of virtual data stores such as a low latency data store and a high durability data store . For example the low latency data store may maintain one or more data sets which may be read and or written collectively accessed by the virtual computer system instances with relatively low latency. The ellipsis between the data sets and indicates that the low latency data store may support any suitable number e.g. thousands millions and more of data sets although for clarity only two are shown. For each data set maintained by the low latency data store the high durability data store may maintain a set of captures . Each set of captures may maintain any suitable number of captures and of its associated data set respectively as indicated by the ellipses. Each capture and may provide a representation of the respective data set and at particular moment in time. Such captures and may be utilized for later inspection including restoration of the respective data set and to its state at the captured moment in time. Although each component of the distributed program execution service may communicate utilizing the underlying network data transfer between the low latency data store and the high durability data store is highlighted in because the contribution to utilization load on the underlying network by such data transfer can be significant.

For example the data sets of the low latency data store may be virtual disk files i.e. file s that can contain sequences of bytes that represent disk partitions and file systems or other logical volumes. The low latency data store may include a low overhead virtualization layer providing access to underlying data storage hardware. For example the virtualization layer of the low latency data store may be low overhead relative to an equivalent layer of the high durability data store . Systems and methods for establishing and maintaining low latency data stores and high durability data stores in accordance with at least one embodiment are known to those of skill in the art so only some of their features are highlighted herein. In at least one embodiment the sets of underlying computing resources allocated to the low latency data store and the high durability data store respectively are substantially disjointed. In a specific embodiment the low latency data store could be a Storage Area Network SAN target or the like. In this exemplary embodiment the physical computer system that hosts the virtual computer system instance can send read write requests to the SAN target.

The low latency data store and or the high durability data store may be considered non local and or independent with respect to the virtual computer system instances . For example physical servers implementing the virtual computer system service may include local storage facilities such as hard drives. Such local storage facilities may be relatively low latency but limited in other ways for example with respect to reliability durability size throughput and or availability. Furthermore data in local storage allocated to particular virtual computer system instances may have a validity lifetime corresponding to the virtual computer system instance so that if the virtual computer system instance fails or is de provisioned the local data is lost and or becomes invalid. In at least one embodiment data sets in non local storage may be efficiently shared by multiple virtual computer system instances . For example the data sets may be mounted by the virtual computer system instances as virtual storage volumes.

Data stores in the virtual data store service including the low latency data store and or the high durability data store may be facilitated by and or implemented with a block data storage BDS service at least in part. The BDS service may facilitate the creation reading updating and or deletion of one or more block data storage volumes such as virtual storage volumes with a set of allocated computing resources including multiple block data storage servers. A block data storage volume and or the data blocks thereof may be distributed and or replicated across multiple block data storage servers to enhance volume reliability latency durability and or availability. As one example the multiple server block data storage systems that store block data may in some embodiments be organized into one or more pools or other groups that each have multiple physical server storage systems co located at a geographical location such as in each of one or more geographically distributed data centers and the program s that use a block data volume stored on a server block data storage system in a data center may execute on one or more other physical computing systems at that data center.

The BDS service may facilitate and or implement local caching of data blocks as they are transferred through the underlying computing resources of the distributed program execution service including local caching at data store servers implementing the low latency data store and or the high durability data store and local caching at virtual computer system servers implementing the virtual computer system service . In at least one embodiment the high durability data store is an archive quality data store implemented independent of the BDS service . The high durability data store may work with sets of data that are large relative to the data blocks manipulated by the BDS service . The high durability data store may be implemented independent of the BDS service . For example with distinct interfaces protocols and or storage formats.

Each data set may have a distinct pattern of change over time. For example the data set may have a higher rate of change than the data set . However in at least one embodiment bulk average rates of change insufficiently characterize data set change. For example the rate of change of the data set may itself have a pattern that varies with respect to time of day day of week seasonally including expected bursts correlated with holidays and or special events and or annually. Different portions of the data set may be associated with different rates of change and each rate of change signal may itself be composed of independent signal sources for example detectable with Fourier analysis techniques. Any suitable statistical analysis techniques may be utilized to model data set change patterns including Markov modeling and Bayesian modeling.

As described above an initial capture of the data set may involve a substantially full copy of the data set and transfer through the network to the high durability data store may be a full capture . In a specific example this may include taking a snapshot of the blocks that make up a virtual storage volume. Data transferred between the low latency data store and high durability data store may be orchestrated by one or more processes of the BDS service . As another example a virtual disk storage volume may be transferred to a physical computer hosting a virtual computer system instance . A hypervisor may generate a write log that describes the data and location where the virtual computer system instance writes the data. The write log may then be stored by the high durability data store along with an image of the virtual disk when it was sent to the physical computer.

The data set may be associated with various kinds of metadata. Some none or all of such metadata may be included in a capture of the data set depending on the type of the data set . For example the low latency data store may specify metadata to be included in a capture depending on its cost of reconstruction in a failure recovery scenario. Captures beyond the initial capture may be incremental for example involving a copy of changes to the data set since one or more previous captures. Changes to a data set may also be recorded by a group of differencing virtual disks which each comprise a set of data blocks. Each differencing virtual disk may be a parent and or child differencing disk. A child differencing disk may contain data blocks that are changed relative to a parent differencing disk. Captures may be arranged in a hierarchy of classes so that a particular capture may be incremental with respect to a sub hierarchy of capture classes e.g. a capture scheduled weekly may be redundant with respect to daily captures of the past week but incremental with respect to the previous weekly capture . Depending on the frequency of subsequent captures utilization load on the underlying computing resources can be significantly less for incremental captures compared to full captures.

For example a capture of the data set may include read access of a set of servers and or storage devices implementing the low latency data store as well as write access to update metadata for example to update a data structure tracking dirty data blocks of the data set . For the purposes of this description data blocks of the data set are dirty with respect to a particular class and or type of capture if they have been changed since the most recent capture of the same class and or type . Prior to being transferred from the low latency data store to the high durability data store capture data may be compressed and or encrypted by the set of servers. At the high durability data store received capture data may again be written to an underlying set of servers and or storage devices. Thus each capture involves a load on finite underlying computing resources including server load and network load. It should be noted that while illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure discuss storage of captures in the high durability data store captures may be stored in numerous ways. Captures may be stored in any data store capable of storing captures including but not limited to low latency data stores and the same data stores that store the data being captured.

Captures of the data set may be manually requested for example utilizing the storage administration interface . In at least one embodiment the captures may be automatically scheduled in accordance with a data set capture policy. Data set capture policies in accordance with at least one embodiment may be specified with the storage administration interface as well as associated with one or more particular data sets . The data set capture policy may specify a fixed or flexible schedule for data set capture. Fixed data set capture schedules may specify captures at particular times of day days of the week months of the year and or any suitable time and date. Fixed data set capture schedules may include recurring captures e.g. every weekday at midnight every Friday at 2 am 4 am every first of the month as well as one off captures.

Additionally some any or all of the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

In some aspects the one or more risk assessment computers and or the one or more service provider computers shown in may perform the process of . The process may begin by including storage of a plurality of best practice groups at . In some aspects the best practice groups may be associated with the operation of one or more computer systems. As noted the graphs may include but are not limited to mathematical representations directed graphs undirected graphs models and or other data structures. At the process may include receiving information describing one or more aspects of operation of a configuration of customer devices. The configuration of customer devices may be a set of devices configured to work together such as in a distributed system or other implementation. Customer devices may include physical devices virtual machines and or reliance on services that may be offered e.g. in the same area . For example a storage service may offer functionality for storing data across multiple regions of a distributed network or the like. As such a customer device may include storage devices of the storage service client instances of a cloud computing service or other types of devices of other services. In some cases the one or more aspects may include inter dependencies roles relative significance data storage aspects etc. The process may also include inferring a role and or significance for the configuration of customer devices at . Further at the process may include generating a relative usage graph for the configuration of customer devices. The relative usage graph may be considered a customer graph and may also be represented with any type of data structure. The relative usage graph may also be generated based at least in part on the information received at .

In some aspects the process may include performing a comparison of the relative usage graph with at least a subset of the best practice graphs to select an ideal best practice graph at . The ideal best practice graph may be selected from the subset of best practice graphs. Any known graph comparison technique may be utilized as described above at least with reference to . Based at least in part on the selected ideal best practice graph the process may include determining resource availability risks at . As noted above resource availability risks may include known vulnerable links of a cluster of web resources and or the risk of a link or node of the distributed system becoming unavailable. The process may end at where the process may include providing the determined availability risks e.g. for display . In some examples the availability risks may be provided for display to a user associated with the configuration of customer devices.

Illustrative methods and systems for providing availability risk assessment and or distributed system component modeling are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may but need not be implemented at least partially by architectures such as those shown at least in above.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and computer executable instructions for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the web server. It should be understood that the web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and to access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically may include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically may include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile applications and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a web server the web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as RAM or ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically may include a number of computer executable applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. Modules may include but are not limited to executable code computer program products program applications or portions and or combinations thereof. For example a module may be a program construct class object and or other portion of code written in a programming language and stored in memory for execution by one or more processors of one of or more computing devices for facilitating effectuating or otherwise controlling operation of the computing device. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware computer instructions including portable applications such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

Further the example architectures tools and computing devices shown in are provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are possible. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment system architecture or device configuration.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a an the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

