---

title: Semantic printing options
abstract: The embodiments provide a print server including a cloud print service. The print server includes an application manager configured to receive a print request for content to be printed, over a network, from a user of an application associated with a device, and provide, over the network, a print dialog to the user. The print dialog is configured to identify at least one available printer associated with the cloud print service. The print server also includes an options translator configured to determine at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer, and translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service. The options translator is configured to provide the common protocol display format for inclusion in the print dialog.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08804147&OS=08804147&RS=08804147
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08804147
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
An ability to print within a computing environment generally ranges from desirable to indispensable. Conventional printers and associated printing techniques typically involve installation of a print driver within the context of an operating system or platform of an associated computer. The print driver is generally specific to the associated type of printer and to the operating system and enables applications running in the context of the operating system to communicate with e.g. send print jobs to the printer. Thus in an example user experience an owner of a computer running a particular operating system purchases a printer and then installs a version of the printer driver associated with the user s operating system onto the computer. In other example scenarios a printer i.e. associated printer driver may be installed in the context of a network.

In either case the printer driver may include a capability file that specifies the capabilities of the printer such as double sided printing separator pages color or image quality options and or staples for example. Typically all or a portion of the capabilities of a printer are presented as printing options in a print dialog depending on the application providing the print dialog. For example a user may wish to print a certain document and select a print option from a drop down menu for example. In response the user may receive a print dialog providing one or more printers that are connected to the computer either locally or via the network. Further the print dialog may include a number of different printing options associated with each printer. The display format of the printing options for a particular printer is determined from its respective capability file which is determined by the printer s vendor. As such the same printing option may be displayed in the print dialog according to a number of different formats because the format is determined by each individual vendor.

In one example regarding a resolution printing option the print capability file for a first printer may specify the display format as a selection between high and low and the print capability file for a second printer may specify the display format as a selection between 600 600 and 300 300. In another example with respect to page orientation the print capability file for the first printer may specify the display format as a selection between portrait and landscape and the print capability file for a second printer may specify the display format as a selection between vertical and horizontal. 

In contrast to conventional print paradigms a cloud printing system may provide users with an ability to print content from virtually any application or device e.g. using any cloud aware printer. In other words the cloud printing system may provide an ability for virtually any application running on any device within a network to communicate with a cloud print service to thereby print to any printer that is also in communication with the cloud print service. In one example in the context of cloud printing an application may send a print request over a network to the cloud print server for printing a document using the cloud print service. In return the cloud print server may provide a print dialog including a number of available cloud printers as well as printing options associated with each available cloud aware printer. Upon selection of a printer and the print options the cloud print service may convert the print job to a format suitable for the cloud aware printer and then transmit the print job having the converted format over the network to the cloud aware printer.

However understanding and incorporating the various different display formats of printing options provided by individual vendors of printers into a cloud based print service may be difficult and challenging. For example rendering a user friendly print dialog having a uniform set of printing options for a relatively large number of cloud aware printers in the cloud environment presents its own set of challenges that are not encountered in conventional print paradigms.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The embodiments provide a print server including a cloud print service. The print server includes an application manager configured to receive a print request for content to be printed over a network from a user of an application associated with a device and provide over the network a print dialog to the user. The print dialog is configured to identify at least one available printer associated with the cloud print service. The print server also includes an options translator configured to determine at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer and translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service. The options translator is configured to provide the common protocol display format for inclusion in the print dialog.

According to an embodiment the options translator configured to determine at least one printing option may include determining the at least one printing option from printer capability information associated with the at least one available printer in response to receipt of the print request.

The options translator configured to determine at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer may include locating a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option from the printer capability information. The option translator configured to translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service may includes disregarding the native print display format of the at least one printing option contained in the printer capability information and selecting the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database based on the capability name.

The print server may further include a printer searcher configured to search a plurality of available printers associated with the cloud print service based on print search criteria and configured to select at least a subset of available printers including the at least one available printer among the plurality of available printers having the at least one printing option. The options translator may be configured to translate the native printer display format of the at least one printing option for at least one printer among the selected subset to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service.

According to one aspect the common protocol display format may be a display format that is the same for each printer having the at least one printing option.

The options translator configured to translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service may include locating a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option in a translation database and selecting the common protocol display format from the translation database corresponding to the capability name.

The options translator configured to translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service may further include providing the common protocol display format in a language associated with the user.

According to an embodiment the providing the common protocol display format in a language associated with the user may include determining the language associated with the user locating a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option in a translation database and selecting the language of the common protocol display format from the translation database based on the determined language.

The determining the language associated with the user may include determining the language based on a user account of the user associated with the cloud print service. Also the determining the language associated with the user may include determining the language based on an internet protocol IP address associated with the request.

The print server may include a print preview generator configured to access the content in response to the print request and generate a print preview providing at least a portion of the content displayed in accordance with the at least one printing option having the common protocol display format. The print preview generator may be configured to provide the print preview along with the at least one printing option having the common protocol display format for inclusion in the print dialog.

The embodiments also provide a method of translating printing options into a common protocol display format performed by one or more processors. The method includes receiving a print request for content to be printed over a network from a user of an application associated with a device and providing over the network a print dialog to the user. The print dialog may be configured to identify at least one available printer associated with the cloud print service. The method further includes determining at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer translating a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service and providing the common protocol display format for inclusion in the print dialog.

The determining at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer may include determining the at least one printing option from printer capability information associated with the at least one available printer in response to receipt of the print request.

The determining at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer may include locating a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option from the printer capability information. The translating a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service may include disregarding the native print display format of the at least one printing option contained in the printer capability information and selecting the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database based on the capability name.

The common protocol display format may be a display format that is the same for each printer having the at least one printing option.

The translating a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service may include providing the common protocol display format in a language associated with the user.

The providing the common protocol display format in a language associated with the user may include determining the language associated with the user locating a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option in a translation database and selecting the language of the common protocol display format from the translation database based on the determined language.

The embodiments provide a computer program product tangibly embodied on a non transitory computer readable storage medium and including executable code that when executed is configured to cause a data processing apparatus to receive a print request for content to be printed over a network from a user of an application associated with a device and provide over the network a print dialog to the user. The print dialog is configured to identify at least one available printer associated with the cloud print service. Also the executable code that when executed is configured to cause the data processing apparatus to determine at least one printing option associated with the at least one available printer translate a native printer display format of the at least one printing option to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service and provide the common protocol display format for inclusion in the print dialog.

The executable code that when executed is configured to cause a data processing apparatus to determine the at least one printing option from printer capability information associated with the at least one available printer in response to receipt of the print request.

The executable code that when executed is configured to cause a data processing apparatus to locate a capability name corresponding to the at least one printing option from the printer capability information disregard the native print display format of the at least one printing option contained in the printer capability information and select the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database based on the capability name.

The common protocol display format of the printing options may be provided in a print dialog to the user and or used within a printer searching functionality for searching cloud based printers. The native printer display format for a particular printing option may be the display format provided by the individual vendor of the printer. However as indicated above multiple display formats may exist for the same printing option. As such the cloud print server may translate the native printer display format of the printing options into the common protocol display format.

The common protocol display format may be a display format that is uniform across all cloud aware printers. Also the common protocol display format permits the cloud print server to search the number of different printers associated with the cloud print service in a reliable and consistent manner and provides a uniform and user friendly print preview of the document subject to the print request. Various other features and advantages of the cloud print service and the printing options translation are described in detail below and or would be apparent.

In a device is illustrated as an example of virtually any computing device from which a user may wish to execute a print job. By way of non limiting example then the device may include a laptop or desktop computer a netbook a tablet computer a smartphone a camera or any device which may store or have access to content which the user may desire to print.

In the example of an operating system is illustrated as executing an application . Again these elements are included by way of illustration and example and may include virtually any operating system or other platform on which virtually any application may run. For example the operating system may include operating systems such as the Windows operating system Mac OS or Linux and may include mobile platforms such as Android Symbian or iPhone OS to name a few examples. In other examples the operating system may include a browser based operating system such as the Chrome OS.

Consequently the application may include virtually any application which may run on any underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well known and too numerous to mention in any detail but generally include document processing applications email applications image editing or presentation software a web browser or virtually any application which provides the user with a rendering of data content which the user may wish to print.

In particular the application may represent a web application which executes on a remote application server as application . That is the application may include any application functionality which is accessed by the user over the network and experienced locally as the application e.g. using a browser running at the device . As is known such web applications allow an owner of the application server to assume responsibility for installing configuring executing and maintaining the application at the application server so that the user of the device may obtain the benefit of the application without many or any of the associated costs and responsibilities. Techniques for executing such a web application and related technology are well known in the art and are therefore not described further in detail herein except as may be helpful or necessary to understand operations of the system of .

The network may thus represent for example the public Internet or other wide area public or private network. The network may represent in further examples a corporate or other intranet and or a smaller scale local or personal network any of which may be implemented using standard network technology.

Further in a cloud aware printer is illustrated which is configured to communicate with the cloud print service over the network . In this regard the term cloud or cloud aware references the use of cloud computing which generally speaking includes a style of computing in which computing resources such as application programs and file storage are remotely provided over a network such as the Internet typically through a web browser. For example many web browsers are capable of running applications which can themselves be application programming interfaces API s to more sophisticated applications running on remote servers. In the cloud computing paradigm a web browser interfaces with and controls an application program that is running on a remote server. Through the browser the user can create edit save and delete files on the remote server via the remote application program. Thus it may be observed that the application server and associated application may also represent examples of cloud computing. Although only one cloud aware printer is illustrated in the example embodiments encompass any number of cloud aware printers using the system of .

In the context of the cloud aware printer the cloud print service enables the application to print directly to the cloud aware printer without a requirement or need for e.g. independently of involvement of the operating system . In other words the application may communicate directly with the cloud print service to thereby print to the cloud aware printer without e.g. requiring a local driver within the operating system . As a result virtually any application that may be configured to communicate with the cloud print service may make use of the cloud aware printer as described in detail below.

For example the cloud print service may be configured to register the user and or the device as well as the cloud aware printer or any other printer capable of using the system of . In a specific example the device may be a smartphone and the user may use the application to purchase a ticket e.g. a movie ticket or an airline ticket . Then the user may print the purchased ticket directly to the cloud aware printer even though the device and or the operating system may not have the resources or otherwise be configured to support native printing in a conventional sense e.g. may not currently be executing a print driver of any sort associated with the cloud aware printer . In this way the user of the application may be provided with a print option and associated abilities that are not currently provided in conventional printing paradigms and techniques. Many other such examples are described herein or would be apparent.

The cloud aware printer may be contrasted with a legacy printer not specifically illustrated in which does not natively support communication with the cloud print service . When using such a legacy printer a separate device and or software may be utilized to impart the advantages of the cloud print service to the legacy printer. It will be appreciated that all the various features and functions of the cloud aware printer may be obtained through the use of a legacy printer supplemented with appropriate hardware software support.

In short the system provides an ability for virtually any application running on any device within the network e.g. the applications and device to communicate with the cloud print service to thereby print to any printer which is also in direct or indirect communication with the cloud print service . Consequently users may benefit from increased printing options and abilities and experience an overall decrease in the costs and efforts associated with doing so. Meanwhile printer manufacturers may experience a decreased or eliminated need to provide users with the updated driver s and other prerequisites for users to fully experience the benefits of their products. This may result in for example higher customer satisfaction and a decreased cost of producing and maintaining printers.

In particular as referenced above the system may provide a number of enhanced features and functions related to the translation of printing options into a common protocol display format in order to impart understanding of the numerous different printing options to the cloud print service thereby facilitating the searching of available printers by printing options as well as providing a uniform printing option display regardless of the differences between display formats provided by the individual vendors for the same printing option. Further the uniform printing option display format may be provided in a print dialog in conjunction with a print preview of the document such that the user experience of rendering a print job is simplified and intuitive. According to the embodiments the printing options that are understood by the cloud print service and translated into the common protocol display format may be considered semantically supported and may be referred to as semantic printing options.

Referring to the application may provide a print dialog in conjunction with the cloud print service . The print dialog includes a printer list A identifying a number of printers including the cloud aware printer the legacy printer as well as any other available cloud aware printer that is associated with a user account. For example the printer list A may include the entire list of printers associated with the user account of the user for cloud printing. For example the entire list of printers includes the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer as well as other cloud aware printers and or legacy printers that are associated with the cloud print service . In one example the entire list of printers include the printers that are registered with the cloud print service for a particular user as well as publically available printers that have registered with the cloud print service . The publically available printers may include printers that located at a business e.g. coffee shops printing centers ect. that may charge a fee for printing.

Further the print dialog may include one or more printing options B corresponding to each of the printers in the printer list A. According to the embodiments the one or more printing options B may be provided in the print dialog according to the common protocol display format. For example instead of providing the vendor specific language that describes the printing options the cloud print service translates the printing options from the native printer display format of a respective cloud aware printer to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service and provides the translated printing options B in the print dialog .

The print dialog may include a printer search box C that permits the user to enter one or more search terms in order to obtain a desired printer. For example the user may enter a search term such as a particular printing option or capability e.g. color printing which in return would narrow the printer list A to cloud aware printers meeting the search criteria. In particular the cloud print service may leverage the common protocol display format of the printing options in order to more accurately search the number of available printers associated with the cloud print service as explained in more detail later in the disclosure.

The print dialog may include a print preview D which provides the user a representation of the content to be printed. According to one embodiment the print preview D may be arranged according to the selected printing options. For example a user may desire to print a document using the application . The application may transmit a print request to the cloud print service and in return the application may receive the print dialog with the printer list A the printing options B the printer search box C and the print preview D. One or more of the printing options B may be pre selected by the cloud print service or selected according to the user s preferences in which the print preview D provides a representation of the contents to be printed according to the selected printing options. Also the user may change or adjust any of the printing options B via any type of user control such as radio buttons for example. The print preview D may display the contents to be printed or a portion thereof as a print preview display according to the selected printing options.

Referring to the cloud print server may include a number of example components or modules which may be utilized to implement functionalities of the cloud print service and in particular may be utilized to implement the concepts and features related to the translation of printing options from the native printer display format to the common protocol display format. The cloud print service may include a registration manager which may be configured to register printers and users. The registration manager may be configured to receive a registration of the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer including storing identification information therefore within a data store of registered printers. Similarly the registration manager may be configured to register a user s who may currently or potentially wish to execute print jobs using the cloud print service and to store identification information for such users within a data store of registered users.

There are many examples scenarios and techniques by which users and or printers may come to be registered with the cloud print server though the registration manager . In general for example a user of the device may use a browser to visit a website associated with the cloud print service and may enter a username password combination to establish a user account with the cloud print service . In some examples users already may have a user account with a separate and possibly related service or service provider. For example various online services e.g. other cloud based computing resources may provide functionalities such as email data storage and document processing and in such cases the user may already have a secure user account established in connection therewith. In such cases the cloud print service may leverage or access such existing user accounts e.g. to avoid a need to create a new user account and to facilitate access of existing users of other services with the cloud print service such as e.g. for implementation of the printer sharing techniques just described.

In addition the registration manager may be configured to receive capability information e.g. capability files with respect to the capabilities of a printer at the time of registering with the cloud print service . The capability information may indicate the capabilities of a particular printer and provide the details on how the printer options are displayed according to its native display format. The capability information may be expressed in XML Paper Specification XPS or PostScript Printer Description PPD depending on the type of operating system . For example Window based operating systems may use the XPS format whereas Linux or Mac based operating systems may use the PPD format. XPS files or PPD files are files created by vendors to describe the entire set of features and capabilities available for a particular printer. The registration manager may store the capability information e.g. XPS files or the PPD files in a capability information database . A portion of an XPS capability file is illustrated with respect to which is described later in the disclosure. Also it is noted that the embodiment encompass any type of method for receiving capability files besides the registration process. For example the cloud print service may receive capability files via an application manager as further described below.

It may be appreciated that although the registration manager is illustrated as being included within the cloud print service it also may occur that some or all functionality related to the registration manager may exist externally to the cloud print service . For example the application server may provide an email application as the application and a user of the device may be registered with this email application service . In such a case the application server may have the responsibility of maintaining the user s account and the cloud print service may simply interface with the application server and provide access to the user once the user is logged on into the application .

Further in an application manager may be configured to communicate with any application which may be desired to be used for printing within the system of including e.g. the application and the application . Thus for example the application manager may implement various application programming interfaces APIs which enable such communication with external applications. For example the application manager may include a print dialog API which may be configured to render the print dialog including the printer list A the printing options B the printer search box C and well as the print preview D. A job submit API may be utilized to receive the identification of application content submitted by the user by way of the print dialog . The job submit API may be configured to submit a corresponding print job including application content to be printed and associated selected printing options to a format converter which may be configured to execute a conversion of the print job into a format which is consistent and compatible with the cloud aware printer . The application manager may communicate with the application or other application in a format that is independent of a specific printer e.g. that is generic with respect to all available or relevant printers within the system.

As indicated above the application manager may receive a print request over the network from a user of the application and provide the print dialog over the network to the user. Also according to an embodiment an options translator is configured to determine one or more printing options associated with the available cloud aware printers and translate the native printer display format of the printing options to the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may determine the printing options from the capability files in the capability information database . As indicated above the capability files may include information created by vendors to describe the entire set of features and capabilities available for a particular printer. Based on the capability files in the capability information database the options translator may determine a set of printing options for the available cloud aware printers in response to receipt of the print request.

Generally the options translator may translate the native printer display format of the printing options associated with the available cloud aware printers into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may locate capabilities of the cloud aware printers from the capability files stored in the capability information database . In one embodiment the options translator may search the capability files in the capability information database and locate capability names which may represent the capabilities of the printers. Also the capability files may define the display of the capabilities such as the display name and the display and or arrangement of printing options which are defined by the individual vendors. According to an embodiment the options translator may disregard the native print display format of the printing options provided in the capability files and select the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database .

The translation database may store the common protocol display format associated with each capability. For example for each capability the translation database may store a corresponding common protocol display format which may be a common description for a particular printing option. In other words for a particular printing option e.g. page resolution the common protocol display format may be a display format for the printing option that is the same for each printer having the page resolution printing option. Therefore regardless of the vendor specific language description the printing options may be provided to the user in a uniform manner. In addition the translation database may provide a translation of the common protocol display format in a number of different languages as further described below.

Instead of using the native display format of the printing options the options translator may search the translation database for the capabilities provided by the capability information database and locate the corresponding common protocol display format for the appropriate printing options. In addition options translator may determine the language associated with the user locate the capability names corresponding to the printing options in the translation database and provide the common protocol display format for the printing options in the determined language. For example the options translator may determine the language of the user based on the user s account from the database of registered users. Also the options translator may determine the language based on the internet protocol IP address associated with the print request. Further it is noted that the embodiments encompass any known mechanism that may identify a location of the user.

For example the capability file may include a number of capability names such as capability name which may be the name of the capability defined by XPS. In other words regardless of the specific vendor language the capability file typically identifies capabilities by capability names which is the same across all XPS printers. Similarly a PPD capability file identifies capabilities by capability names which is the same across all PPD printers. The options translator supports translating printing options from capabilities files in either the XPS or PPD formats as well as any other type of capability standard. In this example the capability name is identified by the string psk PageResolution which may be fixed and defined by the XPS standard. The capability name psk PageResolution relates to the printing resolution of the printer. Also the portion of the capability file includes the display name of the capability and the display names of the printing options which is in the native printer display format. In other words the display name of the capability and the display names of the printing options are defined by the particular vendor of the printer associated with the portion of the capability file . According to an embodiment the options translator ignores the native printer display format of the capability e.g. the display name of the capability and the display names of the printing options and obtains a common protocol display format for the capability name for inclusion in the print dialog from a translation database which is further described below.

In the example of the display name of the capability name is Quality which is defined by the native printer display format provided by the vendor. For example the vendor has defined that the capability of page resolution is displayed as Quality which is not the typical name usually provided for the page resolution capability in the United States. Typically the display name for the page resolution printing option is Resolution. However it is noted that that a vendor may provide any type of description for the display name of a capability. According to an embodiment the options translator disregards the display name provided in the portion of the capability file and uses the common protocol display format obtained from the translation database .

The portion of the capability file also includes information that defines the printing options for the capability name . The options translator is configured to semantically understand the printing options associated with the capability name and instead of providing the display in the native printer display format the options translator provides the common protocol display format. In this example the capability of page resolution provides two printing options printing option and printing option . The printing option corresponds to a page resolution of 600 600 and the printing option corresponds to a page resolution of 300 300. According to the native printer display format the printing option is displayed as High and Low . It is noted that vendors may use a number of different descriptions for the display of the page resolution printing option. For example another vendor may display the actual values of 600 600 and 300 300. As such the display would include xsd string 600 600600 600

The cloud print service may semantically support any number and type of printing options such as page resolution duplex printing e.g. long side short side page range page orientation size type of paper options for color rendering staples or no staples split sheet capability option for bypass tray to put cards cover inserter color brightness page order being forward or reverse lines per inch in the document being a range from 300 to 1800 and more specifically 300 600 1200 and 1800 lines per inch job fonts glossy adjust and gradation smoothing for quality of printing ink separation screening parameters for quality of printing color matching folding binding collating booklet making slip sheet drilling and trimming for job finishing. These options constitute broad capabilities for printing such as job layout job definition job quality job content job description job color job imposition and job finishing.

Although the translation database the capability information database and the data store of registered printers are illustrated as separate databases the embodiments encompass any number of database including one database for storing information related to the features characteristics capabilities and or display formats of printers and their associated printing options.

Referring back to the cloud print service may include a printer searcher which may receive or otherwise determine printer search criteria e.g. specified through the user of the printer search box C as referenced above and which executes a search of available printers meeting the printer search criteria. For example the printer searcher may search the capability files from the capability information database and or any other database storing printer characteristics. As described herein or as would be apparent such capabilities or characteristics may be specific to a given printer or may be specific to the user account of the user in question.

In one example the user may enter search information in the print search box C that describes a certain printer capability. For example the user may enter terms such as color or two sided printing in the printer search box C. Then cloud print service may receive this information over the network via the application manger . The printer search may determine the print search criteria based on the user s inputted search terms and search the capability printer characteristics information in order to locate one or more printers meeting such the print search criteria. Then the options translator may translate the native printer display format of the printing options for the printers meeting the print search criteria into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service and provide the updated list of printers and associated printing options for inclusion in the print dialog .

The cloud print service may also include a print preview generator for generating a print preview in response to the print request. For example the print preview generator may access the contents subject to the print request and generate a print preview providing at least a portion of the contents display in accordance with the printing options having the common protocol display format. In response to the print request the contents may be uploaded from the application to the cloud print service via the network . For example if the contents are associated with the user on the application side the print preview generator may access the contents to be printed by uploading the document from the application to the cloud print service . Also the print preview generator may access the contents from any other server or network element that stores the document to be printed. For example the user may have an associated email account that support document editing and management functionalities. As such in this case the print preview generator may access the contents of the document from the appropriate server that stores the document subject to the print request.

The print preview generator may generate the print preview based on the accessed contents and the selected printing options having the common protocol display format. For example the options translator may translate the native printer display format of the printing options into the common protocol display format and generate the print preview such that the displayed contents of the print preview are arranged according to the printing options having the common protocol display format. In one particular example if the selected printing option includes a landscape orientation the print preview generator generates the print preview such that the displayed contents of the print preview have the landscape orientation. The print preview generator may provide the generated print preview for inclusion in the print dialog . For example the application manager via the appropriate APA may transmit the print preview over the network to the application for display in the print dialog .

The print jobs received at the application manager may be passed to the format converter which may be configured to receive the print job and facilitate or execute conversion of the print job into a format associated with the designated type of printer for the print job in question. Such conversion may thus generally include as needed conversion of the print data itself as well as conversion of the print characteristics specified in conjunction with the given print job.

In more detail as is known printers generally require low level device or type specific instructions which provide a base by which printers actually apply ink to paper to achieve a desired appearance. Such instructions may therefore include very specific portrayals of the desired print outcome using e.g. a page description language PDL . For example the language postscript may be used to describe a desired print outcome which may then be rendered e.g. or rasterized by a specific printer using a print text or images. Additionally fixed layout document formats exist which are designed to facilitate device independent printing all maintaining documents available. For example the portable document format PDF is an example of such format where .PDF documents may be generated using postscript. Somewhat similarly the XPS format provides such a fixed layout document which is based on the eXtensible markup language XML .

Thus application content or other print data may be received from the application in virtually any format including e.g. hypertext markup language HTML or in the format associated with document processing applications and or images or any of the formats referenced above. The format converter may thus be configured to receive print data in these and any other various formats and to convert the print data into a format that is recognizable by a designated printer.

Similarly as referenced above the format converter may be configured to convert the print characteristics associated with the print job into a format that is recognizable by the designated printer . That is as referenced above the print characteristics may include aspects of how the print data should or can be printed i.e. based on preferences of the user and or capabilities or lack thereof of the designated printer. The format converter may thus provide appropriate conversion depending on a selected printer and or on preferences of the user. The format converter may then provide and execute a resulting converted print job using e.g. a protocol referred to herein as the cloud print protocol CPP . Thus the cloud print protocol allows the cloud print service to communicate with the cloud aware printer or with a legacy printer enabled to communicate with the cloud print service .

The cloud print service may include job storage which may provide one or more types of data storage related to operations of the cloud print service . For example the job storage may store print jobs and related information where such print jobs information may be stored prior to and or after the format conversions provided by the format converter . For example a print job may be stored in a printer independent format in which the print job may have been received by the job submit API .

Further in the example of the cloud print service of a print job router may be configured to route the converted print job from the format converter and or the job storage to a designated printer e.g. the cloud aware printer . The print job router may further be configured to monitor and mediate execution and success failure of a given print job. The print job router may thus be responsible for managing and monitoring ongoing print jobs from a plurality of users which may be designated for a corresponding plurality of printers including the cloud aware printer .

As shown the print job router may include or otherwise be associated with a job fetch API and or a job control API . For example the job fetch API may be configured to provide the print job to the cloud aware printer e.g. may be used by the cloud aware printer to fetch a desired print job. The job control API may be responsible for authorizing the cloud aware printer as needed and for receiving updated status information from the cloud aware printer e.g. whether the print job has completed or failed. Such status information also may be stored using the job storage in association with the corresponding print job in question. The job control API also may include status information including e.g. whether a print job is currently queued by not yet downloaded to a corresponding printer or spooled downloaded and added to a native printer queue of the cloud aware printer if applicable .

Furthermore the print job router may be configured to periodically check a status of a printer s using a corresponding print client such as print client . For example the print job router may be aware that the cloud aware printer is available as long as the cloud aware printer is powered on at a given time.

As just referenced the cloud aware printer may utilize various hardware software components during normal printing operations. For example during execution the print job router may be configured to communicate with e.g. a print client executing on firmware of the cloud aware printer . The print client may communicate with the cloud print service e.g. with the print job router using the cloud print protocol referenced herein.

More specifically the print client may be configured to register the cloud aware printer with the cloud print service and to thereby associate the thus registered printer with a user of the device . Moreover the print client may be configured to actually drive the cloud aware printer and thereby execute the desired printing.

In the example of the cloud aware printer is illustrated as including the print client within the firmware . The firmware as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art may represent factory installed hardware and or software which provides designated functions without generally requiring or allowing user modification or configuration e.g. may utilize read only memory . Thus the cloud aware printer may be preconfigured from before time of purchase to communicate and coordinate with the cloud print service to thereby provide a convenient and enjoyable user experience.

For example the cloud aware printer may include a network access manager user input and a display or other user output which may generally represent otherwise conventional components that are therefore not described here in detail except as may be needed to assist in understanding example operations of the system. Of course the cloud aware printer need not include all of the components and or may include additional or alternative components which are also not discussed here in detail.

In the example of the network access manager may represent associated hardware software which enables a cloud aware printer to communicate over the network with the cloud print service . For example such communication may be conducted wirelessly if the cloud aware printer is within range of an appropriate wireless network. In other examples the network access manager may enable a wired connection of the cloud aware printer to the network e.g. by way of connection to an appropriate router.

The user input may represent virtually any sort of keypad stylus or other input technique for entering data to the cloud aware printer . Similarly the display may represent virtually any sort of audio and or video display to output information to the user or other user of the cloud aware printer .

It will be appreciated that many other configurations of the cloud aware printer or other printers are contemplated for use in conjunction with the system. For example as referenced above a legacy printer not specifically illustrated in the example of may lack some of the functionality of the cloud aware printer . For example such a legacy printer may not have the network access manager and or the firmware which may be utilized to implement the print client and otherwise communicate with the cloud print service . In such cases the print client may be configured to execute on or in conjunction with a computing device which is in communication with the legacy printer and which has the available resources necessary to implement the functionalities described herein and which may include an otherwise conventional printer driver communicating with the legacy printer in question. Other variations and implementations of the printer or related printers would be apparent and are not described here in detail except as may be necessary or helpful in understanding operations of the roving printer scenarios described herein.

A print request may be received over a network from a user of an application associated with a device . For example the application manager may receive the print preview over the network from a user of the application associated with the device .

A print dialog may be provided over the network to the user of the application in response to the print request . For example the application manager may provide the print dialog over the network to the user of the application in response to the print request. The print dialog may include a list of printers A associated with the cloud print service . For example as explained above the user may be registered to use the cloud print service and the user information may be stored in the database of registered users. The user account of the user may be associated with a number of registered printers including the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer. The application manager may determine which of the registered cloud aware printers are currently available and provide the list of available printers in the printer list A.

One or more printing options associated with each of the available printers in the printer list may be determined . For example the options translator may determine the printer options from the capability files in the capability information database . The capability information database may include a number of capability files where each capability file corresponds to a different cloud aware printer . Each capability file includes information describing the capabilities of a respective printer. Each capability may be identified by a capability name which corresponds to the fixed capability name provided by the standard such as XPS or PPD. Further the capability file may specify the printing options associated with the capabilities. The capability file also includes the display name of the capability name as well as the display of the printing options associated with each capability name. The information related to the display format of the printing options may be considered the native printer display format which is defined by each respective vender. The options translator may determine the printing options associated with each printer based on the capability files included in the capability information database . For example the options translator may locate one or more capability names from the capability files in the capability information database .

A native printer display format of the printing options may be translated to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may translate the native printer display format of the printing options into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . As indicated above referring to the capability files include the display names of the capabilities and the display names of the printing options which is in the native printer display format. In other words the display name of the capability and the display names of the printing options are defined by the particular vendor of the printer associated with capability files. According to an embodiment the options translator may disregard the native printer display format of the capability e.g. the display name of the capability and the display names of the printing options and may obtain a common protocol display format for the capability name for inclusion in the print dialog from a translation database .

For example within the translation database the options translator may select the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service based on the capabilities names. For instance the translation database may include a plurality of entries corresponding to the capabilities names. The corresponding common protocol display format may be associated with each respective capability name. Further the common protocol display format for a respective capability name may be provided in a number of different languages. As such the translation database may determine a language associated with user e.g. from the user account or browser information such as the IP address associated with print request and select the appropriate common protocol display format corresponding to the capability name and the determined language.

The common protocol display format may be provided for inclusion in the print dialog . For example the options translator may provide the printing options for each available printer in the printer list B according to the common protocol display format. As a result the user is presented with a uniform printing option selection menu that is relatively more user friendly and intuitive.

A list of available printers associated with the user account of the user may be obtained in response to the print request . For example the application manager and or the options translator may obtain the list of available printers associated with the user account of the user of the application associated with the device . The application manager and or the options translator may obtain the list of printers from the database of registered users and determine which of the printers are currently available to the user.

A capability name associated with each printing option may be located in the capability information . For example the options translator may locate the capabilities of each of the available registered cloud aware printers by searching the capability names of the capability files in the capability information database .

A native printer display format of the printing options contained in the capability information may be disregarded . For example the options translator may disregard the native printer display format for the printing options as explained above.

A language associated with the user may be determined the capability names corresponding to the printing options may be located in a translation database and a common protocol display format may be selected from the translation database according to the capability names and the determined language . For example the options translator may determine the language associated with the user based on the user s account and or an IP address associated with the print request. The options translator may locate the appropriate capability names in the translation database and select the common protocol display format according to the capability names and the determined language. In one example if it is determined that a first printer has a page resolution capability the options translator may search the translation database for the entry identified by the page resolution capability name and select the common protocol display format in the determined language.

The common protocol display format of the printing options is provided for inclusion in the print dialog . For example the options translator may provide the common protocol display format to the application manager which transmits the print dialog having the printing options in the common protocol display format.

Many other examples and variations of the systems and operations of would be apparent to one skilled in the art. For example instead of printing to a hardware printer the system may be used to print to PDF or other software format.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning system receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Thus various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

It will be appreciated that the above embodiments that have been described in particular detail are merely example or possible embodiments and that there are many other combinations additions or alternatives that may be included.

Also the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present features in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

