---

title: Thermal separation of electronic control chassis heatsink fins
abstract: An electronics chassis for containing and supporting electronic components having different operating temperatures includes a plurality of thermally conductive walls forming an enclosure. There is a first heat dissipator in at least one of the walls having an external heat dissipator and a second heat dissipator in at least one of the walls having an external heat dissipator. There is a thermal isolator positioned in at least one of the walls to provide thermal isolation between the heat dissipators, and the thermal isolator includes a thermally insulating material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09198328&OS=09198328&RS=09198328
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 09198328
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120426
---
This invention was made with government support under FA8650 06 D 2621 awarded by the United States Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to chassis for electronic components and more specifically to chassis for electronic components that include heatsinks.

When electronic components such as motor controllers are operated heat is generated. Because these components are designed to operate within certain temperature ranges this heat must be dissipated from the system in order to promote efficient operation and avoid overheating. Therefore heatsinks have been used to control the temperature of electronics. Heatsinks are generally comprised of thermally conductive material and are thermally connected to the electronic components. Heatsinks also include features that increase surface area such as fins which provide greater heat loss through convection to the ambient environment. Thereby heat can be transferred from the electronic components and dissipated to the atmosphere.

It can be beneficial to attach more than one electronic component to a heatsink. Because a heatsink is a good thermal conductor during operation of the electronic components the bulk of the heatsink including the portion to which the components are mounted will be at approximately the same temperature. This can be problematic if one of the electronic components requires a lower operating temperature than the other and or if this component emits less heat than the other while at the same time the other component is dissipating much more heat and driving up the temperature of the heatsink. In this case the ambient temperature of the environment the components are located in can also cause overheating of the lower operating temperature components.

According to one embodiment of the present invention an electronics chassis for containing and supporting electronic components having different operating temperatures includes a plurality of thermally conductive walls forming an enclosure. There is a first heat generator in at least one of the walls having an external heat dissipator and a second heat generator in at least one of the walls having an external heat dissipator. There is a thermal isolator positioned in at least one of the walls to provide thermal isolation between the heat dissipators and the thermal isolator includes a thermally insulating material.

In another embodiment an electronic system includes an electronics chassis and two electronic components. The electronics chassis includes two electronic components generating heat that are separated by a thermal isolator wherein one electronic component is mounted to one heat dissipator and the other electronic component is mounted to the other heat dissipator.

In a perspective view of electronic system is shown including electronics chassis . In a perspective view of electronic system with electronics chassis in shadow. In a bottom view of electronics chassis is shown including first electronic component and second electronic component . will now be discussed simultaneously.

Electronic system includes electronics chassis first electronic component second electronic component and cover plate . In general electronics chassis is a unitary structure with top side shroud and flange and electronics chassis is comprised of a thermally conductive material such as aluminum. Top side includes an aperture into which first heat dissipator is affixed. More specifically first heat dissipator is bonded to top side by thermal isolator . This is possible because thermal isolator comprises a material with structural and adhesive properties such as a non thermally conductive elastomer for example a polyamide material .

In addition top side includes second heat dissipator . Therefore thermal isolator is positioned between first heat dissipator and second heat dissipator . Heat dissipators have increased surface area on their respective top sides opposite of mounting surface because heat dissipators include fins . Mounted to mounting surface of top side inside shroud is first electronic component . Mounted to mounting surface of top side inside shroud is second electronic component . Thereby electronic components are thermally connected to heat dissipators respectively. One skilled in the art can appreciate that although directional terms such as top side bottom side underneath and downward are used to describe this invention such terms are merely relational descriptors of the illustrated embodiments shown herein.

In the illustrated embodiment shroud extends perpendicularly downward from top side beyond electronic components . Shroud comprises first side second side which is adjacent to first side third side which is adjacent to second side and fourth side which is adjacent to third side and first side . Attached around shroud is flange which includes a plurality of mounting holes . Cover plate is attached to flange through mounting holes to create a bottom side of electronic system .

During operation of electronic component heat is generated and is transferred to heat dissipator by conduction. During operation of electronic component heat is generated and is transferred to heat dissipator by conduction. This heat is then dissipated to the atmosphere by convection. In the illustrated embodiment first electronic component is a high heat generating high operating temperature rated electronic component whereas second electronic component is a lower heat generating lower operating temperature rated electronic component. Therefore during operation of first electronic component emits more heat than second electronic component . In practice first heat dissipator is at approximately 240 C. and second heat dissipator is at approximately 180 C. during operation. This also means that first heat dissipator dissipates more heat than second heat dissipator .

The components and configuration of electronic system as shown in allow for electronics chassis to be made from two pieces. In addition heat can be eliminated from electronic components and transferred to the atmosphere. In addition show one embodiment of the present invention to which there are alternatives. For example there can be more than one first electronic component mounted to first heat dissipator and there can be more than one second electronic component mounted to second heat dissipator . For another example the operating temperatures of first heat dissipator and second heat dissipator can vary from the embodiment listed above in part due to the components used or the application of electronic system .

In a cross section view of electronic system is shown along line in including thermal isolator . Shown in is the same embodiment as shown in with additional features being visible.

As stated previously during operation of electronic components first heat dissipator is at a greater temperature than second heat dissipator . This is possible because thermal isolator substantially prevents heat transfer between first heat dissipator and second heat dissipator . This is possible because thermal isolator comprises a material with low thermal conductivity such as a non thermally conductive elastomer for example a polyamide material .

In other words thermal isolator acts as a thermal isolator to isolate the higher operating temperature component s from the lower operating temperature component s . In the illustrated embodiment thermal isolator forms a thermal isolation ring around higher operating temperature component .

The components and configuration of electronic system as shown in allow for electronic components to be protected by electronics chassis . Furthermore heat transfer can occur from first electronic component through first heat dissipator and to the atmosphere. But heat transfer from first heat dissipator to second heat dissipator is impeded which prevents first electronic component from heating up and possibly overheating second electronic component .

It should be recognized that the present invention provides numerous benefits and advantages. For example multiple electronic components with different operating temperatures can be mounted to the same chassis substantially without having heat transfer occur between the electronic components.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

