---

title: III-nitride heterojunction devices having a multilayer spacer
abstract: In accordance with one implementation of the present disclosure, a III-Nitride heterojunction device includes a III-Nitride channel layer, a III-Nitride multilayer spacer situated over the III-Nitride channel layer, and a III-Nitride barrier layer situated over the III-Nitride multilayer spacer. A two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) is formed near an interface of said III-Nitride Channel layer and said III-Nitride multilayer spacer. The III-Nitride multilayer spacer includes a III-Nitride interlayer. In one implementation, the III-Nitride multilayer spacer includes a III-Nitride polarization layer that is situated over the III-Nitride interlayer. The III-Nitride polarization layer has a higher total polarization than the III-Nitride interlayer, the III-Nitride channel layer, and the III-Nitride barrier layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08659030&OS=08659030&RS=08659030
owner: International Rectifier Corporation
number: 08659030
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120215
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to a pending provisional application entitled III Nitride Heterojunction Devices HEMTs and Related Device Structures Ser. No. 61 447 479 filed on Feb. 28 2011. The disclosure in that pending provisional application is hereby incorporated fully by reference into the present application.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AR0000016 awarded by Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ARPA E . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A III Nitride device such as a transistor based on a III Nitride heterojunction can typically exploit inherent piezoelectric and spontaneous polarization fields and subsequent generation of a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG . For example the inherent piezoelectric and spontaneous polarization fields and subsequent generation of the 2DEG can be exploited to form a high electron mobility transistor HEMT .

In the III Nitride device as one example an AlGaN barrier layer can be used to form an interface with a GaN channel layer. The 2DEG and high transconductance is formed near the interface of the GaN channel layer and the AlGaN barrier layer. To enhance mobility of the 2DEG an AlN spacer layer can be formed between the GaN channel layer and the AlGaN barrier layer. Although the addition of the AlN spacer layer can be used to increase the piezoelectric charge at the interface with the GaN channel layer it can have the deleterious effect of increasing the ohmic contact resistance of the III Nitride device. Moreover the addition of an AlN spacer layer may lead to poor morphological epitaxial growth crystalline defect generation of any subsequent III Nitride growth including the AlGaN barrier layer due to the increased mismatch in lattice constants caused by the higher Al content in the AlN spacer layer and may even lead to undesirable warp bow or ultimately cracking of the III Nitride material and wafer.

The present disclosure is directed to III Nitride heterojunction devices having a multilayer spacer substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures and as set forth more completely in the claims.

The following description contains specific information pertaining to implementations in the present disclosure. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present disclosure may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed herein. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary implementations. Unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals. Moreover the drawings and illustrations in the present application are generally not to scale and are not intended to correspond to actual relative dimensions.

As used herein III Nitride refers to a compound semiconductor that includes nitrogen and at least one group three element including Al Ga In and B and including but not limited to any of its alloys such as aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN indium gallium nitride InGaN aluminum indium nitride AlInN aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN gallium arsenide phosphide nitride GaAsPN aluminum indium gallium arsenide phosphide nitride AlInGaAsPN amongst others. III Nitride also refers generally to any polarity including but not limited to Ga polar N polar semi polar and non polar crystal orientations. III Nitride also includes Wurtzitic Zincblende and mixed polytypes and includes single crystal monocrystal polycrystal and amorphous crystal structures.

While materials such as GaN AlN and AlGaN are specifically referenced in this application different materials can be used such that a heterojunction interface between the materials can form a conductive channel including 2DEG. Furthermore while III Nitride materials are described it will be appreciated that additional material can be included in a device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

When a layer is referred to as being on over or overlying another layer or substrate it can be directly on the layer or substrate or an intervening layer also can be present. A layer that is directly on another layer or substrate means that no intervening layer is present. It should also be understood that when a layer is referred to as being on over or overlying another layer or substrate it can cover the entire layer or substrate or a portion of the layer or substrate.

III Nitride layer can include a III Nitride buffer layer such as GaN AlGaN or AlInN. In some implementations III Nitride layer includes AlGaN where x

In structure III Nitride channel layer is situated on III Nitride layer . In some implementations III Nitride channel layer includes AlInGaN . In certain implementations III Nitride channel layer includes GaN. III Nitride channel layer can be for example approximately 0.1 to approximately 0.5 microns thick. In some implementations III Nitride channel layer is approximately 0.2 to approximately 0.3 microns thick. In various implementations III Nitride channel layer can be intentionally doped unintentionally doped or undoped.

Also in structure III Nitride multilayer spacer is situated on III Nitride channel layer . III Nitride multilayer spacer can include a single layer or multiple layers of for example AlGaInN. The alloy composition of the layer or layers of III Nitride multilayer spacer in combination with III Nitride barrier layer and their thicknesses are formed so that III Nitride multilayer spacer and III Nitride barrier layer have different in plane lattice constants than III Nitride channel layer . As a result a net polarization forms at an interface with III Nitride channel layer and a conductive channel having 2DEG forms near an interface of III Nitride channel layer and III Nitride multilayer spacer . 2DEG is formed near the surface of III Nitride channel layer and III Nitride multilayer spacer enhances mobility and carrier confinement of 2DEG .

III Nitride multilayer spacer can have a larger in plane lattice constant than III Nitride channel layer . III Nitride barrier layer can also have a larger in plane lattice constant than III Nitride channel layer . However in various implementations III Nitride multilayer spacer has a larger in plane lattice constant than III Nitride barrier layer . In some implementations III Nitride barrier layer includes AlGaN and in certain implementations III Nitride barrier layer includes AlGaN where w

As shown in III Nitride polarization layer is situated over III Nitride interlayer which is situated directly on III Nitride channel layer . In preferred implementations 2DEG is near the surface of III Nitride channel layer . at a heterojunction with III Nitride interlayer However III Nitride channel layer does not form a uniform or continuous heterojunction or interface with III Nitride polarization layer because of formation of III Nitride interlayer formed under III Nitride polarization layer and formed over III Nitride channel layer .

III Nitride interlayer is less than approximately 1 nanometer thick. In some implementations III Nitride interlayer is less than approximately 0.4 nanometers thick and in some implementations III Nitride interlayer is less than approximately 0.2 nanometers thick. Furthermore in certain implementation III Nitride interlayer is discontinuous.

In various implementations III Nitride interlayer is substantially AlGaN. Also in various implementations III Nitride polarization layer is substantially AlN. Furthermore in various implementations III Nitride channel layer is substantially GaN. In one exemplary implementation III Nitride channel layer includes GaN III Nitride polarization layer includes thin AlN and III Nitride interlayer includes AlGaN. In certain implementations III Nitride interlayer includes AlGaN where y

III Nitride polarization layer can be a III Nitride material and can include AlGaN. III Nitride polarization layer has a higher total polarization than III Nitride interlayer III Nitride channel layer and generally any layer situated between III Nitride polarization layer and III Nitride channel layer . In certain implementations III Nitride polarization layer includes AlGaN where z 0.5 and in some implementations III Nitride polarization layer includes substantially AlN. Additionally in certain implementations the in plane lattice constant of III Nitride polarization layer is larger than the in plane lattice constant of III Nitride barrier layer . Therefore where III Nitride polarization layer includes AlGaN where z 0.5 III Nitride barrier layer includes AlGaN where z x.

In other implementations of the present disclosure III Nitride barrier layer includes aluminum indium nitride AlInN . As such both the in plane lattice constant and total polarization of III Nitride polarization layer can be greater than the in plane lattice constant and total polarization of both III Nitride barrier layer and III Nitride channel layer . In certain implementations the in plane lattice constant of III Nitride barrier layer is substantially the same as the in plane lattice constant of III Nitride channel layer .

While in the present implementation III Nitride multilayer spacer includes III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer other implementations include a III Nitride multilayer spacer includes additional layers that are similar to or the same as III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer and can also include other interlayers. In some implementations III Nitride multilayer spacer includes at least two of III Nitride interlayer Also in some implementations III Nitride multilayer spacer includes at least two of III Nitride polarization layer As shown in for example structure includes III Nitride multilayer spacer having a repeated addition of III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer which results in III Nitride multilayer spacer having four layers.

Additional layers similar to or the same as III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer can also be used to further modify III Nitride multilayer spacer beyond having two of each layer. III Nitride multilayer spacer can have an odd or even number of total layers. Also a thicknesses of III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer and repeated periodic alternation of those and or other layers may result in formation of for example a superlattice structure SLS a multiple quantum well MQW structure or a multiple layer structure region. An advantage of a SLS is creation of discrete energy levels associated with the SLS which are different from discrete energy levels associated with III Nitride interlayer or III Nitride polarization layer and can be used to tailor a III Nitride multilayer spacer to achieve a specific bandgap and effective polarization.

Either III Nitride interlayer or III Nitride polarization layer or another interlayer may terminate a top of a III Nitride multilayer spacer. For example structure in includes III Nitride multilayer spacer corresponding to III Nitride multilayer spacer in . In III Nitride multilayer spacer III Nitride interlayer is repeated three times while III Nitride polarization layer is only repeated twice such that a top of III Nitride multilayer spacer is terminated with III Nitride interlayer

A III Nitride multilayer spacer can also include III Nitride interlayer as demonstrated by . Referring to structure includes III Nitride multilayer spacer having III Nitride interlayer III Nitride interlayer can include AlGaN and can be doped or undoped. In some implementations III Nitride interlayer includes AlGaN but is doped differently than III Nitride interlayer III Nitride interlayer has a lower total polarization than III Nitride polarization layer In the present implementation III Nitride interlayer is situated between III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride polarization layer

In a III Nitride multilayer spacer III Nitride polarization layer can also be situated between III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride interlayer For example referring to structure includes III Nitride multilayer spacer . As shown in in certain implementations III Nitride polarization layer is situated between III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride interlayer Although not shown in the Figures in some implementations III Nitride interlayer is situated directly on III Nitride channel layer .

In some implementations all or a combination of some of III Nitride interlayer III Nitride polarization layer and III Nitride interlayer are repeated in a periodic alternation to form a SLS a MQW or a modified III Nitride multilayer spacer. For example referring to structure includes III Nitride multilayer spacer . As shown in a combination of some of III Nitride interlayer III Nitride polarization layer and III Nitride interlayer are repeated in a periodic alternation.

A III Nitride multilayer spacer can also include III Nitride interlayer as demonstrated by . Referring to structure includes III Nitride multilayer spacer having III Nitride interlayer which can include AlGaN and can be doped or undoped. In various implementations III Nitride interlayer includes AlGaN or AlGaN but is doped differently than either III Nitride interlayer or III Nitride interlayer III Nitride interlayer has a lower total polarization than III Nitride polarization layer In certain implementations not shown in the Figures III Nitride interlayer is situated directly on III Nitride channel layer . In other implementations all or only some of III Nitride interlayer III Nitride polarization layer III Nitride interlayer and III Nitride interlayer are repeated in periodic alteration of those layers and or other layers to form any combination of a SLS a MQW or a multilayer structure to result in other exemplary structures not shown in the Figures.

In other implementations other III Nitride interlayers can be added to modify a III Nitride multilayer spacer. In various implementations III Nitride polarization layer includes AlGaN and has a highest polarization of all layers in a III Nitride multilayer spacer. Furthermore III Nitride polarization layer should generally not be situated directly on III Nitride channel layer .

In accordance with various implementations structures described with respect to can be used as semiconductor material stacks supporting fabrication of III Nitride based field effect transistors FETs and more particularly high electron mobility transistors HEMTs . As such additional layers may be on or above III Nitride barrier layer which depend on the type of HEMT device being designed. These additional layers include but are not limited to additional III Nitride capping layers insulating and or dielectric layers metal layers and various organic material layers. These additional layers may result in formation of III Nitride based HEMTs which include metal insulator semiconductor FETs MISFETs metal oxide semiconductor FETs MOSFETs and Schottky gated HEMTs and may be either depletion mode or enhancement mode devices all comprising III Nitride multilayer spacer including at least III Nitride polarization layer and III Nitride interlayer formed between III Nitride barrier layer and III Nitride channel layer . In depletion mode devices 2DEG formed near the interface of III Nitride channel layer and III Nitride multilayer spacer is not interrupted. In enhancement mode devices 2DEG formed near the interface of III Nitride channel layer and III Nitride multilayer spacer is interrupted.

Thus as described above structures in accordance with various implementations of the disclosure can include among other things a III Nitride multilayer spacer between a III Nitride barrier layer and a III Nitride channel layer. The III Nitride multilayer spacer can include a III Nitride polarization layer and a III Nitride interlayer that is underlying the III Nitride polarization layer. The III Nitride polarization layer combined with the underlying III Nitride interlayer can provide enhanced 2DEG formation in the III Nitride channel layer. Furthermore the III Nitride polarization layer combined with the underlying III Nitride interlayer can lower contact resistance to the III Nitride channel layer amongst other advantages. Moreover utilization of the III Nitride multilayer spacer according to various implementation disclosed herein results in enhanced morphological epitaxial growth reduces crystalline defect generation of any subsequent III Nitride growth including an AlGaN barrier layer due to reduced mismatch in lattice constants and results in reduction of undesirable warp bow and increases reliability and mechanical integrity and stability of the III Nitride material and wafer. As such structures implementing the III Nitride multilayer spacer as disclosed in the present application can have improved performance.

From the above description it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts described in the present application without departing from the scope of those concepts. Moreover while the concepts have been described with specific reference to certain implementations a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of those concepts. As such the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the present application is not limited to the particular implementations described herein but many rearrangements modifications and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

