---

title: Large aperture polymer electro-optic shutter device and method of manufacturing same
abstract: A large-aperture direct-view high-speed electro-optic shutter includes an electro-optic polymer material constructed to form a Pockels cell and an integrated photoconducting semiconductor switch. A chromophore-doped polymer material or chromophore copolymer, wherein the chromophore is oriented within the polymer material, exhibits a linear electro-optic effect when an electric field is applied to the device. In one embodiment, the polymer host material comprises one or more of a polycarbonate, amorphous polycarbonate, or polymethylmethacrylate polymer hosts. The optically active chromophore comprising one or more coumarin and coumarin derivatives, stilbene or tolane derivatives is incorporated within the polymer host, forming a guest-host polymer. In another embodiment, the chromophore is chemically bonded to the monomer that forms the polymer, resulting in an optically active copolymer. The electro-optic shutter device is then activated by incident light through the photoconducting semiconductor switch, rendering the Pockels cell to have an optical density of at least 3.0.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08363300&OS=08363300&RS=08363300
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08363300
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120307
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 816 417 by Robert C. Hoffman filed Jun. 16 2010 which claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 218 160 filed Jun. 18 2009 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to electro optic technology and more particularly to electro optic shutter devices.

There are various types of conventional optical switches each of which can be classified as either a passive optical switch or an active optical switch. Typically a passive optical switch receives incoming light and changes state based upon the received light. In this regard some passive optical switches are semiconductors that employ two photon absorption to activate while other passive optical switches employ all optical components and organic dyes. In contrast active optical switches receive incoming light and are activated and or deactivated by a power signal.

Optical switches as described above are typically employed in telecommunications and fiber optic technologies and may employ semiconductors or organic polymers. Typically active optical switches are not employed to propagate images in a whole un encoded state as this can easily be accomplished with a passive device. However passive devices tend to suffer from several problems.

For example although passive devices are inherently fast their dynamic range is generally very limited as there are only so many available molecules to respond. Thus passive devices can saturate quickly. In addition the fluence or irradiance threshold to turn a conventional passive device to the on state may be intolerably high effectively preventing the device from performing its intended function.

Electro optic shutters have a quick response time and good attenuation but conventional active and passive shutters are generally unable to extinguish light evenly over the extent of the electro optic element. Further conventional devices are generally passive in nature in that they use part of the incoming light transient to drive the device to a blocking state. This type of conventional construction has been found to be deficient in speed and effectiveness in blocking optical transients that would be harmful to a human eye or sensor.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides an electro optic shutter comprising a first polarizer comprising a first polarizer face and a second polarizer face positioned opposite the first polarizer face a Pockels cell comprising a first cell face a second cell face positioned opposite the first cell face and an outer circumference disposed therebetween wherein the first cell face of the Pockels cell is disposed adjacent to the second polarizer face of the first polarizer and wherein the Pockels cell comprises a polymer material comprising a chromophore doped copolymer or a guest host polymer a photo conducting semiconductor switch PCSS in communication with the Pockels cell a positive electrode in conductive communication with the PCSS a negative electrode in conductive communication with the PCSS and a second polarizer comprising a first face and a second face positioned opposite the first face wherein the first face of the second polarizer is disposed adjacent to the second cell face of the Pockels cell.

In one embodiment the polymer material which may be a poled sheet comprising one or more of a polycarbonate amorphous polycarbonate or polymethyl methacrylate PMMA polymer host. In another embodiment the chromophore doped copolymer or guest host polymer comprises one or more of coumarin and coumarin derivatives or coumaromethacrylate monomethacrylate copolymer stilbene or tolane derivatives. Preferably the chromophore doped copolymer or guest host polymer exhibits a linear electro optic effect upon application of an electric field the electro optical activity being greater than approximately 10 pm V. Furthermore the chromophore doped polymer or guest host polymer preferably exhibits transmission in a visible range of approximately 400 to 700 nm. In another embodiment the polymer material is optically active. Preferably the PCSS reacts to light wherein the light activates the Pockels cell causing it to discharge and wherein the light activated Pockels cell has an optical density of at least 3.0.

Another embodiment provides a method of manufacturing an electro optic shutter device the method comprising providing a transparent conducting electrode material depositing a polymer sheet comprising a poling axis on the transparent conducting electrode material to form a polymer electrode coated sheet having two layers of electrode material heating the polymer electrode coated sheet to a glass transition temperature of the polymer electrode coated sheet and folding the polymer electrode coated sheet to form a consolidated unit a Pockels cell having a poling direction comprising interdigitated three dimensional electrodes to form the electro optic shutter device.

Another embodiment provides a method of manufacturing an electro optic shutter device the method comprising providing a transparent conducting electrode material depositing the transparent conducting electrode material on a poled polymer sheet comprising a poling direction to form a coated polymer sheet having electrode material on a first side thereof and a non electrode side opposite the first side cutting the coated polymer sheet into a plurality of approximately square pieces bonding each approximately square piece to an adjacent approximately square piece at the non electrode side to form a consolidated unit having a poling direction planing and polishing the consolidated unit to transparency disposing parallel vertical electrodes in the consolidated unit depositing a common conductor upon the consolidated unit a Pockels cell having a poling direction to conductively connect all vertical electrodes to one another to form an electro optic polymer Pockels cell and bonding a photo conducting semiconductor switch to the electro optic polymer Pockels cell to form the fast shutter device.

Another embodiment provides a large aperture direct view high speed electro optic shutter includes an electro optic polymer material forming a Pockels cell and an integrated photoconducting semiconductor switch. A chromophore doped guest host polymer material or chromophore doped copolymer wherein the chromophore is oriented within the polymer material exhibits a linear electro optic effect when an electric field is applied to the device. In one embodiment the polymer host material comprises one or more of a polycarbonate amorphous polycarbonate or polymethylmethacrylate polymer hosts. The optically active chromophore comprising one or more coumarin and coumarin derivatives stilbene or tolane derivatives is incorporated within the polymer host fanning a guest host polymer. In another embodiment the chromophore is chemically bonded to the monomer that forms the polymer resulting in an optically active copolymer. The electro optic shutter is then activated by incident light through the photoconducting semiconductor switch rendering the electro optic shutter opaque.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide an improved high speed electro optic shutter having a fast response time and good attenuation while also being capable of extinguishing light evenly over the extent of the electro optic element. Furthermore the embodiments herein provide a Pockels cell based electro optic shutter device capable of blocking optical transients to such an extent that damage to eyes and sensors does not occur. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The Pockels effect is exhibited in chromophore doped polymers. Specifically certain crystals and polymers exhibit a linear electro optic effect such that birefringence occurs when the crystal is placed in an electric field. The induced birefringence is proportional to the applied electric field and is due to the deformation of the indicatrix index ellipsoid due to the applied field. When a strong external electric field E is applied the indicatrix is distorted the length of the principal axes is modified and the orientation of the indicatrix is also modified as indicated Eq. 1 where is the Pockels electro optic tensor.

The indicatrix is renormalized to the new field. The form of a Pockels electro optic tensor for a guest host polymer of Csymmetry is shown in Equation 2 below. Such a material behaves as a uniaxial crystal. The Pockels electro optic tensor is a third rank tensor that is symmetrical in the first two indices and generally contains 18 independent components. The Csymmetry reduces the number of independent components to two since the non vanishing components r r r and rare all equal 

Prior attempts at creating large area Pockels based shutter devices have used plasma electrodes and other contrivances to circumvent the problem of obscuration of the central aperture by the electrode. The requirement of a clear central aperture having low losses is due to the necessity of having lossless intracavity elements for a laser. As a fast shutter not used as a laser intracavity element the large aperture direct view Pockels devices face no such restriction.

The embodiments herein provide a novel Pockels cell device and an electro optic shutter comprising such a Pockels cell device. The Pockels cell device of the embodiments herein comprises a chromophore doped polymer. The Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element operates as a half wave plate when a voltage V is applied to the element and has two opposing transverse surfaces. The chromophore doped polymer is comprised of a polymer material which acts as the substrate. In particular the polymer material i.e. the substrate comprises but is not limited to one or more of a polycarbonate amorphous polycarbonate or polymethylmethacrylate PMMA polymer host. Preferably the polymer is doped with but is not limited to one or more of coumarin and coumarin derivatives stilbene or tolane derivatives in the form of a chromophore doped guest host polymer or chromophore doped copolymer system.

In particular as illustrated in a Pockels cell device is provided wherein the crystal axes are oriented as shown. The chromophore doped polymer contains oriented chromophores which exhibit a linear electro optic effect Pockels effect under the influence of an applied electric field . A new index ellipsoid is formed under the influence of the applied field . The incident polarized light propagates parallel to the x axis the y and z axes of the device are shown as and respectively.

As illustrated in the oriented chromophores are preferably chromophores being specifically designed to have high electro optical activity and transmission in the visible region 400 to 700 nm. In the chromophore is a coumarin derivative which is attached to the polymer polymethylmethacrylate PMMA resulting in a copolymer. In the chromophore is a stilbene derivative specifically methoxynitrostilbene and in the chromophore is a tolane derivative specifically aminonitrotolane . Alternatively the chromophore may be simply dissolved in the polymer host resulting in a guest host system.

The incident polarized light as illustrated in polarized 45 to the z axis can be resolved into two s and p polarized components oriented 45 either side of the z axis of the poled polymer. One component is advanced by 4 and the other component is delayed by 4. The result is a total phase difference of 2 which rotates the incoming polarization 90 illustrated as x axis . The phase shift that occurs if light is passed through the poled polymer in the direction of the applied electric field is written as below 2 Eq. 3 where is the phase shift in radians of the light of wavelength units of m nis the ordinary refractive index dimensionless quantity of the Pockels medium at wavelength units of m nis the extra ordinary refractive index dimensionless quantity at wavelength units of m rand rare the particular electro optic constants for the Pockels material units of m V and V is the applied voltage units of V . The half wave voltage V follows from the equation below Eq. 4 .

This voltage is on the order of several hundred volts to several kilovolts in a practical device and scales in a linear fashion with wavelength. The modified index ellipsoid is illustrated in . The z x and y axes are shown as and respectively. Under the influence of an applied field the original index ellipsoid is modified to a new index ellipsoid . The extra ordinary axis z axis is changed by nrE and the ordinary axis y axis is changed by nrE . The total effective change from Equation 4 is the difference rn rn.

Examples of EO polymers with high EO coefficients are the Lumera DH series of chromophores based on a dialkoxythiophene type structure. The DH series of chromophores include DH6 DH10 DH13 DH28 all having EO coefficients 40 pm V in a polycarbonate host. All these chromophore structures are based upon the 2 2 dicyanomethylen 3 cyano 4 5 5 trimethyl 2 5 dihydrofuran TCF molecule. Various moieties on the TCF structure are altered to form the DH series of materials.

Most research to date has focused on telecommunications applications requiring low loss and high EO coefficient at 1.3 to 1.5 m. Some of these near infrared materials may be suitable for this application when used in films less than 10 m in thickness. However the embodiments herein provide chromophore copolymer doped polymer exhibiting a high transmission rate of from 400 to 700 nm along with a high EO coefficient in excess of 10 pm V.

The electro optic shutter device of the embodiments herein as shown in comprises the above described Pockels cell device is comprised of a first polarizer having a first face and a second face opposite the first face. The Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element of an electro optic shutter has a first face a second face opposite the first face and an outer circumference disposed therebetween the first face of the Pockels cell device is disposed adjacent to the second face of the first polarizer . The Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element operates as a half wave plate when a voltage V is applied to the element and has two opposing transverse surfaces.

A photo conducting semiconductor switch PCSS is disposed in communication with the Pockels cell device . The PCSS further is in conductive communication with a positive electrode and a negative electrode . Disposed adjacent to the second face of the Pockels cell device is a second polarizer having a first face and a second face opposite the first face.

The first polarizer is disposed adjacent to one transverse surface of the Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element and has a first transmission axis oriented 45 relative to the z axis of the poled polymer. The second polarizer is disposed adjacent to the other transverse surface of the Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element and has a second transmission axis 90 different than the first transmission axis. Each electrode is disposed on one of the transverse surfaces of the Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element and has an electric field which is substantially uniform over the transverse extent of the Pockels cell device i.e. the electro optic element .

Unpolarized light propagating along axis enters the first polarizer with polarization axis . Vertically polarized light corresponding with the naxis shown in enters the Pockels cell device . Part of the incident light activates the PCSS . The PCSS causes the negative electrode and the positive electrode to discharge the Pockels cell device .

If the intensity of the polarized light is insufficient to trigger the PCSS the light exits the Pockels cell device as 45 polarized light and passes through the second polarizer having a polarization axis . However if the intensity of the light is sufficient to trigger the PCSS to discharge the Pockels cell device the light exits the Pockels cell device as polarized light which is 90 from the original polarized light and is blocked by the second polarizer having a polarization axis . This configuration is embodied as a normally on or normally transparent device.

An example of a Pockels cell device used in accordance with the embodiments herein may be manufactured as illustrated in . In particular a polymer sheet comprised of the chromophore doped copolymer or guest host polymer of the embodiments herein having a poling axis is deposited in step on a transparent conducting electrode material and such as but not limited to Indium Tin Oxide ITO or Baytron conductive polymer as non limiting examples so as to form a coated sheet . Specifically the coated sheet has two layers of electrode material and respectively deposited thereon.

Polymer sheet is fabricated by dissolving a chromophore in a suitable polymer such as but not limited to PMMA. This mixing process is performed while the polymer is heated above its glass transition temperature T the temperature at which the polymer becomes soft enough to accommodate the chromophore . The resulting mixture is referred to as a guest host polymer. The guest host polymer remains heated above the glass transition temperature to allow forming by rollers sheet extrusion or other suitable polymer melt processing technique to form a sheet of the desired thickness.

In the case of copolymers such as shown in the copolymers are synthesized according to known techniques and heated above the glass transition temperature to allow forming by rollers sheet extrusion or other polymer melt processing technique to form a sheet of the desired thickness.

At this point the polymer sheet may be poled. In other words the polymer sheet has its constituent chromophore molecules aligned in the proper direction by the application of a high voltage electric field to folded structure during step . The high voltage is applied to the top and bottom surfaces of structure to form a chromophore aligning field in the direction of arrow . Alternatively in process shown in the field is applied to structure by applied positive and negative high voltage to alternate electrodes i.e. even electrodes are negative and odd ones are positive. The resulting chromophore poling field is perpendicular to the spacing of the electrodes.

The polymer electrode coated sheet is then heated to its glass transition temperature as illustrated in step in . The resulting polymer electrode coated sheet is then folded to form a consolidated unit having interdigitated three dimensional electrodes having a poling direction .

Alternatively as shown in the Pockels cell device of the embodiments herein may be manufactured using process wherein a poled polymer sheet having poling direction has in step a transparent conducting electrode material such as but not limited to Indium Tin Oxide ITO or Baytron conductive polymer as non limiting examples deposited thereon so as to form a coated polymer sheet . This poled polymer sheet is comprised of the chromophore copolymer described herein. The coated polymer sheet has an electrode material on only one side thereof.

Then in step the coated polymer sheet is cut into a plurality of approximately square pieces . The approximately square pieces are then each bonded to the non electrode side of the adjacent square piece as illustrated by step . The approximately square pieces may be bonded to one another using cyanoacrylate cement as a non limiting example. However any suitable conventional means of bonding may be used. Then in step all of the approximately square pieces are bonded together to form a consolidated unit having poling direction .

Consolidated unit as illustrated in and consolidated unit as illustrated in now enter the next step of the manufacturing process which is the planarization of the poled sheet as illustrated in . In particular consolidated unit and consolidated unit have both surfaces and planed and polished to transparency as illustrated by step . Through step i.e. the polishing process both consolidated unit and consolidated unit end up with the same configuration. Then in step the individual parallel vertical electrodes of each individual approximately square piece shown in are operatively connected by common conductors . The resulting electro optic polymer may be poled at this step if necessary. Then in step the PCSS is bonded and connected to the electro optic polymer to form the Pockels cell device of the embodiments herein.

To form the completed electro optic shutter device of the embodiments herein as shown in in process the first polarizer is bonded to the Pockels cell device using an optical adhesive by coating the optical adhesive on the Pockels cell device and applying pressure to the first polarizer in the direction shown. Similarly the second polarizer is bonded to the Pockels cell device using an optical adhesive by applying optical adhesive to the Pockels cell device and applying pressure to the second polarizer in the direction shown. The first polarizer and the second polarizer are oriented in a crossed configuration. Finally in step curing to remove voids and bubbles is carried out to yield a finished electro optic shutter device .

As illustrated in the electro optic shutter device of the embodiments herein is comprised of the Pockels cell device having the PCSS bonded thereto. The dimensions A and B of the electro optic shutter are variable and determined by the application. In one non limiting example the dimensions A and B are on the order of 1 cm. Three dimensional interdigitated electrodes and are connected to a high voltage source by pads and .

A cross sectional view of the electro optic shutter device through A A shows the thickness L from Equation 4 and is generally approximately millimeters but may be tailored to the desired application. Likewise the electrode spacing D is generally approximately but not limited to 0.5 to 1.0 mm and may be tailored to the desired application. Light propagates through the device in the direction shown through second polarizer and first polarizer .

As illustrated in in the general process a completed unit can be assembled in a mosaic like fashion by assembling a plurality of electro optic shutter devices together. In particular in process the individual electro optic shutter devices are bonded to a suitable substrate adjacent to one another to form a conformable array . The bonding can be accomplished using a silicone based adhesive or similar material. Preferably the adhesive used is sufficiently rigid to support the deposition of electrically conducting strips . The strips carry the electrical charge necessary to operate the individual electro optic elements . The individual electro optic shutter elements can be joined to form a curved element if desired.

As illustrated in which is an expanded view of the array of joined electro optic elements cell shown in the electro optic shutter elements are embedded in an insulating adhesive material . The electrically conducting strips in are split into and as described in . Ground common connector strip carries an electrical charge via a smaller conducting strip to the PCSS . Another parallel strip a positive common connector carries an opposite electrical charge to the opposing electrodes of the electro optic shutter elements via a strip attached to a pad . The connectors and are potted within the insulating adhesive material so as to protect the user against electrical shock.

An insulated wire pair connects the eyeglass frame to a compact circuit box . The circuit box contains various circuit elements as shown in and contains an on off switch a 9 volt battery connected to a commercially available compact high voltage power supply not shown applied to positive terminal . The high voltage applied to terminal passes through a charging resistor and applies the high voltage to the electro optic shutter elements .

The resistor allows the designer to tune the circuit for critically damped operation to maximize the efficacy of the device i.e. device of . The resistor and inductor are not actual discrete circuit elements but describe the innate resistance and inductance contained within the electro optic shutter element . The elements of the PCSS are contained within the electro optic shutter element as previously described. The elements of the PCSS when illuminated with light cause the discharge of the electro optic shutter element to ground thus activating the device i.e. device of as described above.

The Pockels cell device provided by the embodiments herein operates with very fast electrical pulses sub nanosecond and provides a significant advantage in speed over conventional mechanical shutters. Further the device provides for a higher attenuation than conventional passive chemical dye based shutters. As discussed above the Pockels cell device provided by the embodiments herein may be incorporated in a thin flexible electro optic shutter device composed entirely of a solid state polymer.

The Pockels cell device provided by the embodiments herein as well as the electro optical shutter device comprising same may be utilized in any application requiring very rapid blocking of an optical transient including protection from damaging laser pulses from the millisecond regime to the nanosecond regime and even to block pulses down to the femtosecond regime. In particular the Pockels cell device and electro optical shutter device provided by the embodiments herein provide excellent eye and sensor protection.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the Pockels cell device the electro optic shutter device and the method of manufacturing same as provided by the embodiments herein have many diverse applications and that the embodiments herein are not limited to the representative examples disclosed herein. Accordingly the foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

