---

title: Arrangement of steering wheel and operator seat assembly
abstract: A control system for a construction vehicle, such as a motor grader, is provided. The control system includes a plurality of joysticks supported by an operator seat assembly of the motor grader.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08360193&OS=08360193&RS=08360193
owner: Deere & Company
number: 08360193
owner_city: Moline
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 347 182 to Ruhter et al. titled INPUT CONTROL PATTERN filed Jan. 10 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 257 787 to Rowan et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 8 091 678 also titled INPUT CONTROL PATTERN filed Oct. 24 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 068 569 to Ruhter et al. titled ARMREST MOUNTED GRADER CONTROL filed Mar. 7 2008 the entire disclosures of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure includes a console for controlling a construction vehicle such as a motor grader.

Skilled motor grader operators have learned to operate the motor grader based on a learned feel of the machine and can accurately control numerous controls simultaneously to provide accurate grades at high productivity. Highly skilled grader operators have a preferred control pattern for motor graders such that nearly all graders have similar lever arrangements including lever and knob size lever efforts and lever travel. These traditional motor grader controls are a series of individual levers arranged on either side of the steering wheel. Each lever individually controls a single function on the motor grader through a mechanical linkage system connected to a hydraulic valve.

According to an aspect of the present invention a construction vehicle is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis on the ground a steering wheel supported by the chassis and configured to control the direction of travel of the construction vehicle across the ground a ground engaging blade moveably coupled to the chassis a control system including a plurality of joysticks each of the plurality of joysticks being configured to control at least one function of the construction vehicle and an operator seat assembly supported by the chassis the operator seat assembly including a frame a seat and a back support and a console supported by the operator seat assembly and supporting the plurality of joysticks of the control system the console being spaced apart from the steering wheel by a distance of 3 inches or less.

According to another aspect of the present invention a construction vehicle is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis on the ground a steering wheel supported by the chassis and configured to control the direction of travel of the construction vehicle across the ground the steering wheel having a diameter a ground engaging blade moveably coupled to the chassis a control system including a plurality of joysticks each of the plurality of joysticks being configured to control at least one function of the construction vehicle an operator seat assembly supported by the chassis the operator seat assembly including a frame a seat a pair of armrests laterally spaced apart by an armrest gap and a back support a ratio of the armrest gap to the steering wheel diameter being greater than 1.5 and a console supported by the operator seat assembly and supporting the plurality of joysticks of the control system.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention a construction vehicle is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis on the ground a steering wheel supported by the chassis and configured to control the direction of travel of the construction vehicle across the ground a ground engaging blade moveably coupled to the chassis a control system including a plurality of joysticks each of the plurality of joysticks being configured to control at least one function of the construction vehicle an operator seat assembly supported by the chassis the operator seat assembly including a frame a seat a pair of armrests laterally spaced apart by an armrest gap and a back support and a console supported by the operator seat assembly and supporting the plurality of joysticks of the control system the console and the steering wheel being spaced apart by a console steering wheel gap a ratio of the armrest gap to the console steering wheel gap being greater than 5.

According to still yet another aspect of the present invention a construction vehicle is provided that includes a chassis a plurality of traction devices positioned to support the chassis on the ground a steering wheel supported by the chassis and configured to control the direction of travel of the construction vehicle across the ground a ground engaging blade moveably coupled to the chassis an operator seat assembly supported by the chassis the operator seat assembly including a frame a seat a pair of armrests laterally spaced apart by an armrest gap and a back support a control system including a first plurality of joysticks and a second plurality of joysticks each of the first and second plurality of joysticks being configured to control at least one function of the construction vehicle a first console supported by the operator seat assembly and supporting the first plurality of joysticks of the control system and a second console supported by the operator seat assembly and supporting the second plurality of joysticks of the control system the first and second consoles being laterally spaced apart by a console gap a ratio of the armrest gap to the console gap being greater than 1.25.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. Although the drawings represent embodiments of the present invention the drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be exaggerated in order to better illustrate and explain the present invention.

The embodiments disclosed below are not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed in the following detailed description. Rather the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art may utilize their teachings.

Motor grader is shown in for spreading and leveling dirt gravel or other materials. Grader includes articulated chassis operator cab and a plurality of rear wheels also described as traction devices to propel chassis and the remainder of grader along the ground a pair of front steerable wheels which may also be described as traction devices engine to power operation of grader transmission shown in phantom transmitting power from engine to rear wheels motor grader circle and grader blade supported by circle and including distal heal and opposite distal toe for spreading and leveling. In addition to blade grader is provided with a front mounted ripper scarifier and a rear mounted ripper scarifier for working the soil prior to grading operations.

Although a motor grader is described in detail the features described herein may be provided on other vehicles such as bull dozers front loaders and other construction vehicles having various ground engaging tools and traction devices such as wheels and tracks. Grader blade is described as a ground engaging blade but is not limited to engagement with soil dirt gravel etc. It and other ground engaging blades such as snow plows shown in phantom in or snow wings shown in phantom in may also engage other materials such as snow.

Operator cab includes pair of lateral side walls front wall roof and rear wall and a floor defining an interior region of operator cab . Side walls and front wall include windows .

Referring to operator seat assembly is positioned in operator cab and includes frame seat back support armrest and control console . Each of seat back support armrest and control consoles are coupled to and supported by frame . Control consoles support several inputs of control system of motor grader .

Operator seat assembly is configured to rotate relative to chassis to permit operator to rotate operator seat assembly as desired. Because armrests and control consoles rotate with seat assembly the operator s arms remain in the same position relative to inputs as operator rotates seat assembly . The forward and rearward position of console may be adjusted by loosening clamp as shown in . As shown in armrests and consoles may rotate about a common axis X in direction upward to provide access to seat . According to the preferred embodiment only left armrest and console rotate.

Steering console assembly is positioned forward of seat assembly and includes steering column or pedestal and steering wheel rotatably coupled to steering column to control steering of motor grader . Steering column is coupled to floor of cab . Steering wheel has a preferred diameter of 10 inches 25.4 cm . Steering wheel and consoles cooperate to define a console steering wheel gap of about 1.6 inches 4.0 cm .

Shift console assembly is positioned to the right of seat assembly and includes a pedestal coupled to floor of cab and a shift lever operatively connected to pedestal . Pedestal is spaced apart from right control console by about 1.6 inches 4.0 cm . Shift lever or shifter controls transmission .

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure control system is electronic and interacts with the electrohydraulic systems electrohydraulic valves hydraulic cylinders etc. of motor grader . Thus motor grader is controlled by an electro hydraulic EH system. Wires not shown extend from inputs of control system through cab to the electrohydraulic valves not shown located outside of cab . Because only wires rather than hydraulic lines exit cab cab is sealed better and quieter than if hydraulic lines extended into cab . Although motor grader uses an EH other systems such as all hydraulic systems may be provided for motor grader .

To improve the view of an operator and reduce operator fatigue inputs of control system are placed nearer to the operator. According to the exemplary embodiment inputs are placed on control consoles in front of armrest . By placing inputs on nearer the operator viewing through front wall of cab is not obstructed by mechanical levers and linkages extending through the floor of cab adjacent to front wall . For example as shown in A B and windows extend substantially to floor of cab with no obstruction due to floor mounted control levers. To further place inputs out of the line of sight of the operator some of controls are placed directly over seat of seat assembly .

As shown in seat consoles include forward end or forward portions rearward end or rearward portions console outboard sides and console inboard sides . Consoles define blade viewing recesses radiused torso recesses and leg recesses shown in .

In one illustrative embodiment control consoles are at least partially located below armrests as shown in . By placing control consoles below armrests inputs are in a convenient location for the operator s palms and fingers and are further out of the line of sight of the operator. Rearward portions of consoles are positioned directly below a portion of armrests .

As mentioned above to improve the line of sight of the operator inputs are placed nearer the operator. To facilitate this placement at least a portion of control console is located directly above seat to place several of inputs also directly above seat nearer the operator. For example console inboard side of console is positioned directly above a forward outboard portion of seat as shown in . As a result of this placement innermost portions of control consoles define a control console gap of about 13.4 inches 34.1 cm between control consoles . For reference innermost portions of armrest define an armrest gap of about 19.3 inches 49.1 cm . According to alternative embodiments other control console gaps and armrest gaps are provided. According to the present disclosure the ratio of armrest gap to steering wheel diameter is greater than 1.5. According to the preferred embodiment this ratio is about 1.93 but other ratios may be provided such as 1.25 1.75 2.0 2.5 3.0 etc. According to the present disclosure the ratio of armrest gap to console steering wheel gap is greater than five. According to the preferred embodiment this ratio is about 12.3 but other ratios may be provided such as 3 4 6 8 10 15 20 etc. According to the present disclosure the ratio of armrest gap to console gap is greater than 1.25. According to the preferred embodiment this ratio is about 1.44 but other ratios may be provided such as 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.7 etc.

As also illustrated in leg recesses provides legs with additional space underneath the portions of control consoles positioned directly over seats . Forward downwardly facing surfaces of control consoles that define leg recesses have a higher elevation than reward downwardly facing surfaces of control consoles .

As shown in control system includes a plurality of inputs such as joysticks and switches. In an illustrative embodiment joysticks define a control pattern for motor graders utilizing joysticks . Control system allows operator to finely adjust multiple functions on the motor grader to achieve accurate and precise control during grading operations.

Left control console supports a plurality of joysticks . As shown in front joystick that controls the pitch of blade by moving it forward and backward and controls raising and lower of ripper by moving left and right. Left rear joystick controls the height of the left end of blade by moving it forward and backward. Center rear joystick controls side shifting of blade by moving it forward and backward and controls steering of motor grader by moving in left and right. Once front wheels are turned by moving center rear joystick left or right they remain turned left or right until center rear joystick is moved to the right or left . Steering through using center rear joystick is in addition to steering wheel of vehicle . Thus two inputs are provided on vehicle for controlling steering of front wheels . According to alternative embodiments of the present disclosure the steering and other functions may be controlled by any of the other joysticks . Rear right joystick controls the angle of blade through rotation of the grader circle by moving forward and backward.

Right control console also supports a plurality of joysticks . Front joystick that controls the articulation of motor grader by moving it forward and backward and controls raising and lower of ripper by moving left and right. Left rear joystick controls the side shift of the grader circle by moving it forward and backward. Center rear joystick controls the lean of front wheels of motor grader by moving it forward and backward. Rear right joystick controls the height of the right end of blade by moving it forward and backward.

Joysticks are positioned close enough to facilitate an operator s hand and allow operator to reach each joystick with limited or not arm movement. In the preferred embodiment lateral spacing between joysticks in a row is about 2.6 inches 6.5 cm . Thus the total spread between the tops of joysticks in a row is about 5.2 inches 13.0 cm . The longitudinal spacing between forward and rear joysticks is about 2.7 inches 6.8 cm . The lateral spacing between forward and rear joysticks is about 1.3 inches 3.25 cm . The lateral spacing between inboard joysticks on each control console is about 16.6 inches 4.21 cm .

As shown in on left console left rear joystick includes button assembly facing inward that acts as a left hand integrated grade control or IGC switch. When IGC switch on left rear joystick is pressed this joystick becomes a master blade lift lever so that if left rear joystick is actuated to raise a left end of blade the right end of blade also raises to maintain the slope of blade .

Center rear joystick includes a pair of button assemblies facing inward that acts as an IGC to provide increment decrement. When one of button assemblies is pressed the slope of blade increases by a predetermined increment such as 0.1 degrees. When the other button assembly is pressed the slope of blade decreases by the predetermined increment. Front joystick may also include button assemblies facing forward.

On right console front joystick includes button assembly facing forward that returns the articulation of motor grader to straight. Center rear joystick includes button assemblies facing inward that provide the IGC increment decrement function described above. Thus according to one configuration of the control functions button assemblies of center rear joystick of left console and center rear joystick of right console control the same functions. According another configuration of the control functions these button assemblies control different functions. For example according to one configuration blade is provided with a curb sensor that detects the height of blade relative to a curb. When this feature is activated button assemblies on center rear joystick of left console can control the increment decrement of the blade height and button assemblies of center rear joystick of right console can control the slope of blade .

Rear right joystick includes button assembly facing inward that acts as a right hand IGC switch. When IGC switch on right rear joystick is pressed this joystick becomes a master blade lift lever so that if right rear joystick is actuated to raise a right end of blade the left end of blade also raises to maintain the slope of blade .

As shown in control system also includes auxiliary joystick inputs such as auxiliary joysticks differential lock switch as well as float switches . A horn button may be provided to the right of float switches or elsewhere. Differential lock switch control the locking and unlocking of the motor grader differential.

Float switches control the float function of the ground engaging devices supported by motor grader . The float function allows blade and the other ground engage blades such as snow plows snow wings etc. to float or ride over the hard surfaces such as pavement rather than be rigid relative to the hard surface. For example when the float function is activated the hydraulic cylinders controlling snow plow would not be in a rigid fixed position but would allow snow plow to float over the pavement so that any rollers supporting the snow plow could roll over the pavement and avoid snow plow gouging the payment. As shown in each float switch includes left middle and right bubble switches . Middle bubble switch is raised relative to left and right bubble switches to allow a user to locate it tactilely. Middle bubble switch on left float switch controls the float of the left end of blade and the middle bubble switch on right float switch controls the float of the right end of blade . Left and right bubble switches control the float function of auxiliary attachments such as snow plows and snow wings .

Several auxiliary functions are controlled by mini auxiliary joysticks by moving them forward and backward and right and left. Additional auxiliary functions are provided by front joystick stick on left console by using the unused axes of movement of primary joysticks and or primary joysticks without button assemblies . The auxiliary functions control the operation of accessories attached to motor grader not including blade . Such attachments may include rippers snow plow and snow wing that are attached to the front end or sides of motor grader . These functions may include the position height or lateral position and orientation pitch rotation etc. 

When left armrest and left console are raised in direction a sensor not shown detects this movement and disables the controls such as joysticks and the other controls. If an operation of motor grader is active when left armrest and left console are raised the operation is terminated.

Blade viewing recess is configured to allow operator shown in to view a portion of grader blade such as blade toe or blade heel as shown in . Reference to blade toe and blade heel depends on the direction in which the blade is rotated. When grader blade is rotated to the position shown in phantom in the operator s line of site may extend through blade viewing recess so that less of console is blocking the operator s view. As previously described inputs control functions of grader blade so that blade viewing recess allows operator to view the result of a control function of motor grader while simultaneously viewing blade . Armrest is configured to adjust in height and angle to allow the operator to adjust the position of recess and otherwise increase their visibility.

As shown in front vertical posts separate side walls and front wall . Similarly middle vertical posts divide side walls . Because front vertical posts are at the extreme lateral edge of cab they do not block the view of the operator looking forward. Thus the operator may see implements supported by the front of chassis such as front ripper or a snow blade shown in phantom . Similarly because middle vertical posts are positioned behind the front of seat assembly they do not block the operator s view of blade .

In this embodiment as shown in consoles include console primary bases which supports joysticks and consoles includes console secondary bases which supports auxiliary joysticks differential switch and float switches . Console primary base is illustrated as higher than console secondary base to provide approximately one inch 2.5 cm of clearance. As shown in joysticks include an uppermost surface that is higher than auxiliary joysticks .

An alternative embodiment console is shown in . Console includes base . Console is coupled to motor grader in an arrangement similar to console . Base defines first joystick slot and second joystick slot . First joystick slot provides first joystick slot longitudinal axis . Similarly second joystick slot provides second joystick slot longitudinal axis . Base also defines mount slots . Base also defines blade viewing recess and opposite recess . Blade viewing recess is similar to blade viewing recess in that blade viewing recess is configured to allow operator to view a portion of grader blade such as heel .

Joysticks are shown including joystick shafts and joystick knobs which are similar to joystick shafts and joystick knobs shown in . Joysticks are configured to mount to base by the use of fasteners and joystick mounts . As illustrated in this embodiment fasteners are positioned within mount slot and attached to joystick mounts . Joystick mounts are illustrated to support joystick shafts and joystick knobs which are located within first and second joystick slots . As shown in joysticks are arranged in a control system arrangement similar to console as previously described. The control system arrangements are similar in all aspects except for the ones that are explicitly described herein.

As shown in joysticks are configured to mount to base and are configured to adjustably move along longitudinal axes . Mount slot as well as first and second joystick slots and allow for translation of joysticks along longitudinal axes in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of chassis . Joysticks are not limited to a particular mount location but may be positioned relative to console or each other depending on the preference of the operator. Joysticks are configured to remain coupled to the control system of vehicle so they remain functional even while being moved from one location such as a first mount location to a lateral second location. As also shown in fasteners are located within mount slots and fasten to joystick mounts to hold joysticks in place.

Joysticks are modular. If a joystick needs replaced or repaired individual joysticks may be removed and replaced without having to remove the remaining joysticks . If a joystick fails in the field the function of the failed joystick can be switched to another joystick . If necessary the functionality of the other joystick can be disabled when replaced. The functionality can be switched to another joystick through the motor grader touch screen monitor shown in . For example if rear center joystick on left control console fails the side shift function can be transferred to another joystick such as one of auxiliary joysticks or one of the lesser used primary joysticks .

The functionality of joysticks can also be reconfigured to satisfy the preferences of the operator. For example the left blade lift function provided by left rear joystick of left console may be shifted to center rear joystick of right console which is adjacent to right rear joystick that provides the right blade lift function. In this configuration both the left end and right end blade lift functions are on adjacent joysticks .

In another embodiment seat assembly is shown in . Shifter is coupled to left console and controls transmission . Seat assembly is similar to seat assembly in all other aspects

In another embodiment consoles are shown in . Consoles supports control system which is substantially similar to control system . Console is similar to console in all other aspects except what is explicitly mentioned. Console does not define a recess similar to control recess shown in . Control system includes an additional primary joystick . Front left joystick may control three or more auxiliary functions by moving forward and backward left and right and by including one or more button assemblies . Similarly front right joystick may control three or more auxiliary functions in a similar manner.

In another embodiment consoles are shown in . Consoles support control system . Consoles are similar to consoles in all other aspects except what is explicitly mentioned. Consoles define steering wheel recesses that provides additional visibility and clearance between consoles and steering wheel . Each console also defines an alternative leg recess . Leg recess is defined by downwardly facing surface and inwardly facing surface . Portions of consoles positioned directly above seat are thinner than portions not positioned directly over seat .

As shown in joysticks include joystick knobs and joystick shafts supporting knobs . Preferably knobs have a spherical ball portion having a diameter of 1.5 inches 3.8 cm but they may be other diameters. Knobs further include a sleeve that is positioned over shafts and is integral with spherical ball portion .

Each joystick knob may also include one or more joystick push button assemblies . Joystick knobs may rotate relative to joystick shafts to permit an operator to adjust the relative position of push button assembly to a desired location. As shown in knob includes a threaded set screw receiving hole and shaft includes a plurality of threaded holes sized to receive a set screw . To change the angular position of button assembly set screw is backed out of hole knob is rotated to the desired position and set screw is driven back into the appropriate hole . Because holes are at predetermined locations the various positions of knob are also predetermined. However according to alternative embodiments the positions are not predetermined. Joystick push button assemblies are illustrated in particular arrangements on joysticks . However joystick push button assemblies are not limited to any particular position or arrangement.

Knobs with push button assemblies are hollow to receive push button assemblies and wires coupled to push button assemblies . Similarly shafts are hollow to receive wires that extend from push button assemblies through shaft to console as shown in .

Knobs is molded over push button assemblies to be one piece and avoid seams or split lines that may irritate an operator s hand. During the over molding process mold insert is placed in push button assembly as shown in . Next button assembly and mold insert are placed in an injection mold and plastic is injected into the mold to form knob over button assembly and mold insert as shown in . Mold insert is then removed and shaft is inserted into knob . Wires are connected to button assembly before or after shaft is inserted into knob .

Additional details of button assembly are shown in . Button assembly includes a pair of housings a button a mold cap and a switch . During assembly switch button and mold cap are placed between housings and secured together with fasteners . Mold cap is made of silicon and is pinched between housings and button after assembly. During molding of knob mold cap prevents the knob plastic from entering button assembly . After knob is molded over button assembly mold cap is removed to provide button clearance to pivot within knob as shown in . As shown in as a result of the over molding process knob is free of split lines because it is molded as one piece.

As shown in button includes a pair of posts and housings include post receiving apertures that receive posts and allow button to pivot relative to knob . Button also includes a back post that depresses switch when button is depressed by an operator .

Knobs is also molded over joysticks with dual push button assembly to avoid seams or split lines that may irritate an operator s hand. During the over molding process mold insert is placed in dual push button assembly as shown in . Next dual button assembly and mold insert are placed in an injection mold and plastic is injected into the mold to form knob over button assembly and mold insert as shown in . Mold insert is then removed and shaft is inserted into knob . Wires are connected to dual button assembly before or after shaft is inserted into knob .

Additional details of dual button assembly are shown in . Dual button assembly includes a pair of housings pair of buttons a pair of mold caps and a pair of switches . As shown in housings include post receiving apertures that receive posts and allow button to pivot relative to knob . During assembly switches buttons and mold caps are placed between housings and secured together with fasteners . Mold caps are pinched between housings and buttons after assembly. During molding of knob mold caps prevent the knob plastic from entering button assembly . After knob is molded over button assembly mold caps are removed to provide buttons clearance to pivot within knob as shown in . As a result of the over molding process knob is free of split lines because it is molded as one piece.

Knob without button assembly is shown in . A shaft is provided within knob . Similar to the molding process for the above mentioned knobs a mold insert is placed in the injection mold and plastic is injected into the mold. Then mold insert is removed and shaft is inserted into knob as shown in .

While this invention has been described as having an exemplary design the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains.

