---

title: Hybrid vehicle control
abstract: A method and apparatus for heating a catalytic converter's catalyst to an efficient operating temperature in a hybrid electric vehicle when the vehicle is in a charge limited mode such as e.g., the charge depleting mode or when the vehicle's high voltage battery is otherwise charge limited. The method and apparatus determine whether a high voltage battery of the vehicle is incapable of accepting a first amount of charge associated with a first procedure to warm-up the catalyst. If it is determined that the high voltage battery is incapable of accepting the first amount of charge, a second procedure with an acceptable amount of charge is performed to warm-up the catalyst.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09090243&OS=09090243&RS=09090243
owner: FCA US LLC
number: 09090243
owner_city: Auburn Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This invention was made at least in part under U.S. Government Department of Energy Contract No. DE EE0002720. The Government may have rights in this invention.

The present disclosure relates to a control method for a hybrid electric vehicle and more particularly to a method of performing a catalyst light off procedure in a hybrid electric vehicle based on heat requirements and limited excess engine output power.

Hybrid vehicles have been developed and continue to be developed to improve vehicle fuel economy and reduce vehicle emissions. Conventional hybrid electric vehicles HEVs combine internal combustion engines with electric propulsion systems. Plugin hybrid electric vehicles PHEVs share the characteristics of both conventional hybrid electric vehicles and all electric vehicles by using rechargeable batteries that can be restored to full charge by connecting e.g. via a plug to an external electric power source.

PHEVs usually operate in charge depleting or charge sustaining modes. The high voltage battery of the PHEV can be fully charged or charge limited i.e. incapable of further charging . As is known in the art the charge depleting mode typically allows a fully charged PHEV to operate exclusively with some exceptions on electric power until its battery state of charge SOC depletes below a predetermined level at which time the vehicle s internal combustion engine is turned on. As is also known in the art charge sustaining mode uses both of the vehicle s power sources to operate the vehicle as efficiently as possible and without allowing the high voltage battery state of charge to move outside a predetermined band.

Today most vehicle internal combustion engines are connected to a catalytic converter which converts the engines toxic exhaust emissions into non toxic substances such as carbon dioxide nitrogen and water. These converters are known to be highly efficient once their catalyst is heated to a light off temperature of e.g. several hundred degrees Fahrenheit.

Often times it is desirable for a vehicle to undergo a special light off process to ensure that the catalyst is heated to its light off temperature as quickly as possible. A cooled off catalyst will be ineffective and inefficient for converting the engine s toxic exhaust emissions into non toxic substances when the engine is on. This typically occurs when the vehicle is initially started has a cold engine and thus a cold catalytic converter. The light off process may operate the engine in a certain manner such that the temperature of the catalyst rises to its light off temperature in the shortest amount of time. For hybrid electric vehicles for example the light off process includes holding the vehicle s engine at a constant engine speed Ni and torque Ti and allowing the electric motors to compensate for the total output torque requested by the driver. This portion of the light off process is sometimes referred to as an NiTi engine speed torque speed process. In addition to the NiTi process the engine s spark timing is slowed down often referred to as spark retard which sacrifices spark efficiency in favor of heating up the catalyst.

The above described light off process works well when the HEV and PHEV are in the charge sustaining mode. In fact while the engine s exhaust is raising the temperature of the catalyst the engine s power can be used to charge the vehicle s high voltage battery. However the current light off process cannot be used when the HEV and PHEV s high voltage battery is charge limited e.g. fully charged such as when the vehicle is in charge depleting mode because the battery has limited if any capacity to accept more charge for safety and other reasons. Accordingly there is a need for further improvement in the art.

In one form the present disclosure provides a method of controlling a hybrid electric vehicle to warm up a catalyst within a catalytic converter of the vehicle. The method comprises determining whether a high voltage battery of the vehicle is incapable of accepting a first amount of charge associated with a first procedure to warm up the catalyst and if it is determined that the high voltage battery is incapable of accepting the first amount of charge the method performs a second procedure with an acceptable amount of charge to warm up the catalyst.

The present disclosure also provides a powertrain apparatus for a hybrid electric vehicle. The apparatus comprises an engine a catalytic converter including a catalyst said catalytic converter connected to an exhaust of the engine and a controller adapted to warm up the catalyst by determining whether a high voltage battery of the vehicle is incapable of accepting a first amount of charge associated with a first procedure to warm up the catalyst and if it is determined that the high voltage battery is incapable of accepting the first amount of charge the controller performs a second procedure with an acceptable amount of charge to warm up the catalyst.

In one embodiment the second procedure comprises altering operation of a vehicle engine such that engine output power produces the acceptable amount of charge and operating the engine with the output power to warm up the catalyst.

In one embodiment altering the operation of the engine comprises raising an RPM set point of the engine. In another embodiment altering the operation of the engine comprises lowering a brake torque of the engine. In yet another embodiment altering the operation of the engine comprises raising an RPM set point and modifying an air flow rate of the engine.

In another embodiment adjusting a spark timing of the engine is included as part of the first and second procedures.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description claims and drawings provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description including disclosed embodiments and drawings are merely exemplary in nature intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention its application or use. Thus variations that do not depart from the gist of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention.

According to the principles disclosed herein and as discussed below a new light off process is used when the hybrid electric vehicle is in a charge limited mode such as e.g. the charge depleting mode or when the vehicle s high voltage battery is otherwise charge limited . The new light off process will shift the engine operation to deliver the optimal heat rate profile to the catalyst when the engine output power must be limited. The limit is a function of output power request accessory power system power losses and maximum battery charging power. The requirements for providing the heat rate profile are broken down into two components exhaust gas flow rate passing through the catalyst and exhaust gas temperature. The exhaust gas temperature requirement will vary based upon system needs. A contemplated principle herein includes a method of heating a catalytic converter s catalyst to an efficient operating temperature when the hybrid electric vehicle is in a charge limited mode such as e.g. the charge depleting mode or when the vehicle s high voltage battery is otherwise charge limited.

A control unit is operably connected to the engine and the HEV transmission electric generator to control the various components of the powertrain including start stop functionality of the IC engine and the placing of the vehicle in the desired operating mode. The control unit may be a processor and may contain memory for storing computer instructions for carrying out the various functions performed by the control unit .

As noted above and in accordance with the principles disclosed herein the control unit will be programmed to perform a method for controlling the hybrid electric vehicle powertrain in a manner that will heat the catalyst to an efficient operating temperature even when the vehicle is in a charge limited mode e.g. charge depleting mode .

The method beings by determining if the vehicle s high voltage battery can accept the amount of charge to be generated by the regular light off process at step . That is can the high voltage battery accept the charge generated by the engine when the NiTi engine speed torque speed process discussed above is performed. In the desired embodiment this step comprises determining the state of charge SOC of the high voltage battery and determining whether the current SOC indicates if the battery can accept the additional amount of charge that will be generated if the standard NiTi process is performed. It should be appreciated that the amount of charge attributable to the NiTi process can be determined based on several known factors including how much the temperature of the catalyst needs to be raised and how long the engine will be operated at the rated speed and torque.

If it is determined that the vehicle s high voltage battery can accept the amount of charge to be generated by the regular light off process a yes at step the regular light off process comprising the NiTi and spark retard processes is performed at step . If however it is determined that the vehicle s high voltage battery cannot accept the amount of charge to be generated by the regular light off process a no at step the regular light off cannot be performed and the method continues at step .

At step the operation of the engine is altered to modify its output power level to a level that can be accepted by the high voltage battery i.e. the current SOC plus the determined power level will be below the battery s charge limit . As is discussed below the engine will be held at a higher engine speed and lower torque that satisfy the constrained high voltage charge limits of the charge limited battery and which get the temperature of the catalyst to an optimum level in the shortest amount of time to achieve the catalyst efficiency required to meet emission levels. This higher engine speed and lower torque are referred to herein as the modified NiTi process. 

Thus at step the method raises the engine s 20 RPM set point. The exhaust gas flow rate requirement will dictate the mass of air entering the combustion chamber at the desired RPM set point i.e. a lower mass of air will be needed for the higher engine speed . Once the engine RPM and air flow rate have been defined the indicated torque T and the mechanical losses T including e.g. pumping frictional and accessory losses if applicable will automatically be derived. The exhaust gas temperature can be achieved by the appropriate amount of ignition timing retard at the RPM and air flow set point referred to as torque reserve T . Specific thresholds can be used for the amount of retard in ignition timing since the common concerns regarding excessive retard are not applicable in this scenario i.e. if some engine instability would be caused by this retardation the engine stability is guaranteed by the electric transmission and overheating the catalyst .

The reduction of indicated torque T will be comparable to the increase of RPM however the increase in mechanical losses T will serve as the primary leverage for a further decrease in brake torque T . As a result the engine will output a lower brake power while generating the desired catalyst heat profile. It is desirable to utilize this strategy for a short duration after the first engine start of a drive cycle when catalyst efficiency takes priority over the fuel economy.

The method operates the engine using the modified NiTi described above until the catalyst temperature reaches or exceeds its light off temperature step . It should be appreciated that the use of spark retard to achieve a faster catalyst light off discussed above will also be used.

It should be appreciated that the method disclosed herein is particularly suitable for the strict super ultra low emission vehicle SULEV emissions standards that HEVs and PHEVs are required to meet. One portion of the SULEV emissions standards is known as the FTP Federal Test Procedure city test which is a regulatory chassis dynamometer test that includes a cold crank with the vehicle soaking for at least 12 hours and an idle period i.e. zero vehicle speed of approximately 20 seconds. The disclosed method allows the catalyst to be warmed up so that the vehicle s operation meets the emissions standards of the test using the modified NiTi process when the high voltage battery is charge limited which is extremely beneficial and important in today s society.

