---

title: Graphene layer formation at low substrate temperature on a metal and carbon based substrate
abstract: A system and method for forming graphene layers on a substrate. The system and methods include direct growth of graphene on diamond and low temperature growth of graphene using a solid carbon source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08906772&OS=08906772&RS=08906772
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08906772
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120525
---
This application is a Continuation In Part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 448 068 filed Apr. 16 2012 U.S. Pat. No 8 652 946 B2 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and the University of Chicago and or pursuant to DE ACO2 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

The invention relates generally to methods and systems for forming graphene layers on a carbon based substrate. More particularly this invention relates to methods and systems for growth of graphene including direct growth of graphene on diamond and low temperature growth of graphene using a solid carbon source.

Since the discovery of graphene and realization of its exceptional electronic properties in suspended form there have been many efforts in fabricating FET type devices based on single and bilayer graphene on a SiOsubstrate. However performance of these devices is found to be inferior to the expected intrinsic properties of graphene. It has been observed that apart from carrier mobility in graphene which is sensitive to trapped charges and surface impurities at the graphene oxide interlace breakdown current density in graphene depends sensitively on the heat dissipation property of the underlying supporting substrate. Although graphene has extremely high intrinsic thermal conductivity it is reported that in graphene devices that more than 70 of the heat dissipates through the 300 nm SiOon silicon directly below the active graphene channel. The remainder of the heat is carried to the graphene that extends beyond the device and metallic contacts. Such a distribution of heat into the substrate cause undesirable effects on the overall performance of a device such as the thermally generated carriers affecting the electronic mobility parameters of a device fabricated on top of the substrate.

The breakdown current density measurements of multilayer and few layer graphene disposed on a SiO Si substrate have been reported to be in the range of 7 10to 10A cm. The main breakdown mechanism of graphene is mostly due to the Joule heating which sensitively depends upon the thermal conductivity and surface roughness of the underlying substrate. The thermal conductivity of SiOK 0.5 1.4 W mK at RT is more than two orders of magnitude smaller than that of Si K 145 W mK which suggests that the use of a better heat conducting material directly below graphene can improve graphene s JBR. Recently it was demonstrated that replacement of SiOwith diamond like carbon DLC helps to substantially improve the RF characteristics of the scaled graphene transistors. However DLC is an amorphous material with K 0.2 3.5 W mK at room temperature hereinafter RT which is a very low value and is close to that in SiO. Additionally depending on the hydrogen content the as deposited DLC films has high internal stress which needs to be released by having to perform a separate step of annealing these films at higher temperatures about 600 C. . These negative attributes provide a very strong motivation for the search for other materials which can be used as substrates for graphene based devices.

In one embodiment conventional SiOsubstrates are replaced with diamond such as synthetic single crystal diamond SCD hereinafter and a graphene layer. The problem of prior art systems concerning heat dissipation is substantially reduced leading to an order of magnitude increase in breakdown current density JPR hereinafter reaching up to one thousand times improvement over conventional metal based interconnects in FET type devices and other electronic device applications like RF transistors. In other embodiments the substrate can be ultranano crystalline diamond UNCD hereinafter with grain size diameters of about 5 10 nm resulting in improving JPR about 50 as compared to graphene on SiOas a result of the increased thermal conductivity of the UNCD at elevated temperatures close to the thermally induced breakdown point.

In yet another embodiment a method and system provides direct growth of graphene layers on diamond thereby eliminating various transfer processes previously required. In this process the diamond substrate can be single crystal or polycrystalline diamond.

In a further embodiment a method and system are provided for low temperature growth of graphene by using a solid carbon source and preferably using a Ni surface as the substrate thereby allowing single or multilayer graphene in a controlled manner. In addition the Ni or other like performing transition metal or alloy as the substrate is deposited on an adhesion layer such as Ti or other well known compatible adhesion layer material. The adhesion layer can then be deposited on a substrate compatible with the adhesion layer. Such a substrate can be Si SiO combination thereof or other conventional and compatible substrates to enable forming graphene by annealing a deposited polymer layer on the Ni or transition metal or metal alloy layer. Further the polymer used to form the graphene can be a mixture of aliphatic hydrocarbon an alkene hydrocarbon.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In one embodiment graphene based devices can be fabricated by a top down methodology to create graphene on a synthetic diamond substrate. As shown in a starting material can be either single crystal diamond or UNCD NCD nanocrystalline diamond thin film deposited on a silicon substrate with a transferred graphene layer on the top. The next step in the process is to spin coat a photoresist followed by e beam lithography to pattern the graphene layer and perform a reactive ion etch RIE to transfer the pattern . The next step is deposition of Au Ti as metal contacts . A gate dielectric of HfO is also deposited using an atomic layer deposition hereinafter ALD process for three terminal devices. Finally a lift off process is used to etch away extra metal from unwanted regions. The final configuration of device is as shown in a schematic displayed as an inset at the end of process flow chart.

The UNCD films for this study were grown on Si substrates in a conventional microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition MPCVD system at the Argonne National Laboratory ANL . show the MPCVD system used for the growth inside a cleanroom and schematic of the process respectively. The growth conditions were altered to obtain larger D in the range 5 10 nm instead of typical grain sizes D 2 5 nm in UNCDs. This was done to increase K of UNCD without strongly increasing the surface roughness. We intentionally did not increase D beyond 10 nm or used MCD in order to keep H in the range suitable for polishing. The inset shows a 100 mm UNCD Si wafer. Details of the original growth process developed at ANL are described hereinafter.

The surface roughness of the synthetic diamond substrate plays an important role in reducing electron scattering at the graphene diamond interface and increasing the electron mobility . We performed the chemical mechanical polishing hereinafter CMP to reduce the as grown surface roughness from H 4 7 nm to below H 1 nm which resulted in a corresponding reduction of the thickness H from the as grown H 1 m to 700 nm. The H value was selected keeping in mind conditions for graphene visualization on UNCD together with the thermal management requirements see Example I . The SCD substrates were type IIb grown epitaxially on a seed diamond crystal and then laser cut from the seed. For the graphene devices fabrication the SCD substrates were acid washed solvent cleaned and put through the hydrogen termination process in a conventional manner. The near edge ray absorption fine structure spectrum NEXAFS of the grown UNCD film 100 confirms its high spcontent and quality . The strong reduction of H is evident from the atomic force microscopy AFM hereinafter images of the as grown UNCD and UNCD after CMP presented in respectively. The surface treatment procedures developed for this study are described in the Methods subsection hereinafter.

The graphene and few layer graphene FLG hereinafter were prepared by exfoliation from the bulk highly oriented pyrolytic graphite to ensure the highest quality and uniformity. We selected flakes of the rectangular ribbon shape with the width W 1 m which is larger than the phonon mean free path 750 nm in graphene. The condition W ensured that K does not undergo additional degradation due to the phonon edge scattering allowing us to study the breakdown limit of graphene itself The length L of graphene ribbons was in the range of about 10 60 m. We further chose ribbons with the small aspect ratio W L 0.03 0.1 to imitate interconnects. Raman spectroscopy was used for determining the number of atomic planes n in FLG although the presence of spcarbon at the grain boundaries in the UNCD made the spectrum analysis more difficult. shows spectra of the graphene on UNCD Si and UNCD Si substrate. One can see a 1332 cmpeak which corresponds to the optical vibrations in the diamond crystal structure. The peak is broadened due to the small D in UNCD. The bands at 1170 1500 and 1460 cmare associated with the presence of trans poly acetylene and spphase at grain boundaries. The graphene G peak at 1582 cmand 2D band at 2700 cmare clearly recognizable. presents spectra of the graphene on SCD SCD substrate and difference between the two. The intensity and width of 1332 cmpeak confirms that we have single crystal diamond.

In preferred embodiments the devices were made of FLG with n 5. FLG supported on substrates or embedded between dielectrics preserves its transport properties better than single layer graphene. Two terminal i.e. interconnects and three terminal i.e. FET5 devices were fabricated on both UNCD Si and SCD substrates. The electron beam lithography EBL was used to define the source drain contacts and gate electrodes. The contacts consisted of a thin Ti film covered by a thicker Au film . A top gate HfOdielectric layer was grown by the atomic layer deposition ALD hereinafter . In a preferred embodiment as compared to a basic prior art graphene on SiO Si devices the gate electrode and the graphene pad were completely separated by the HfOdielectric layer to avoid oxide lift off sharp edges which can affect connection of the gate electrode . FIGS. A and show schematics of the fabricated devices with details. For testing the breakdown current density in FLG we used two terminal devices in order to minimize extrinsic effects on the current and heat conduction. Three terminal devices were utilized for mobility measurements. Conventional graphene on Si02 Si devices were prepared as references. is an optical microscopy image of a two terminal graphene on SCD device. show the scanning electron microscopy SEM images of the two terminal and three terminal graphene on UNCD devices respectively.

In a preferred embodiment characterization was performed for 40 in number of the graphene on diamond devices and for 10 in number of the graphene on SiO Si reference devices . To understand the origin of the breakdown Jvalues were correlated with the thermal resistances of the substrates. The effective K of the substrates was measured and their thermal resistance determined as R H K where His the substrate thickness. For details of the thermal measurements see Example I. shows thermal resistance R for the UNCD Si and Si SiO 300 nm substrates as a function of T. Note that Rfor Si increases approximately linear with T which is expected because the intrinsic thermal conductivity of crystalline materials decreases as K 1 T for T above RT. The T dependence of Rfor UNCD Si is notably different which results from interplay of heat conduction in UNCD and Si. In UNCD K grows with T due to increasing inter grain transparency for the acoustic phonons that carry heat. UNCD Si substrates despite being more thermally resistive than Si wafers at RT can become less thermally resistive at high T. The Rvalue for SCD substrate is 0.25 10mK W which is more than order of magnitude smaller than that of Si at RT. The thermal interface resistance R between FLG and the substrates is R 10mK W and it does not strongly depend on either n or the substrate material. For this reason Rdoes not affect the Rtrends.

The location of the current induced failure spot and Jdependence on electrical resistivity and length L can shed light on the physical mechanism of the breakdown. While not limiting the scope of the invention the failures in the middle of CNTs and J 1 were interpreted as signatures of the electron diffusive transport which resulted in the highest Joule heating in the middle. The failures at the CNT metal contact were attributed to the electron ballistic transport through CNT and energy release at the contact. There is a difference in contacting CNT with the diameter d 1 nm and graphene ribbons with W 1 m. It is easier to break CNT metal than the graphene metal contact thermally. In our study we observed the failures both in the middle and near the contact regions see . The difference between these two types was less pronounced than that in CNTs. The failures occurred not exactly at the graphene metal interface but on some distance which varied from sample to sample. We attributed it to the width variations in graphene ribbons leading to breakdowns in the narrowest regions or in the regions with defects which are distributed randomly. We did not observe scaling of Jwith like in the case of CNTs.

Jfor graphene scaled well with L and shows data for graphene on UNCD with a similar aspect ratio. From the fit to the experimental data we obtained J L where 1.3 10and 0.73. For graphene on SCD the slope is 0.51. Previously the scaling with L where 0.6 0.7 was observed in carbon nanofibers CNF which had a similar aspect ratio. Such J L dependence was explained from the solution of the heat diffusion equation which included thermal coupling to the substrate. However the thermally induced Jfor CNF was 10A cm much smaller than the record J 1.8 10A cmwe obtained for graphene on SCD.

In a preferred embodiment the UNCD thin films were grown on 100 mm diameter Si substrates in the 915 MHz large area microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition MPCVD hereinafter system DiamoTek 1800 series 915 MHz 10 KW from Lambda Technologies Inc. operating in the clean room at the Argonne National Laboratory. Prior to the growth silicon substrate were deposited with 10 nm tungsten layer using sputter deposition process followed by nanodiamond seeding treatment using the nanodiamond suspension containing dimethylsulphoxide DMSO solution ITC Raleigh N.C. . Details about MPCVD and seeding process for the UNCD growth are described in Example I. The single crystal diamonds used for this study were type IIb with 100 orientation Delaware Diamond Knives polished from both sides down to 3 nm RMS roughness. A pre cleaning procedure using acid wash and solvent cleaning was used to etch any contaminants from the surface. The H termination process with microwave plasma was carried at the substrate T 700 C. using Hflow of 50 sccm and chamber pressure of 30 mbar for 10 15 mins. The process eliminates any hydrocarbon and oxygenated impurities and produces clean terminated diamond surface. We defined the top gate region using EBL NPGS controlled Leo 1550 and performed ALD Cambridge Nanotech of 20 nm thick HfOat T 110 C. The lift off of ALD was done in hot acetone T 60 C. for 2 hours. We often observed oxide leftovers at the edges of the defined 9 regions which can lead to discontinuities in the following metal layer. To avoid this problem we designed HfO layer insert under the entire region of gate electrode and pad. We then used EBL to define the source drain and top gate electrodes regions and deposit Ti Au 10 nm 100 nm by E beam evaporator Temescal BJD 1800 . The gate leakage in our devices was very low much smaller than 0.1 nA m . We established that our polished UNCD Si substrates do not require a seeding layer for ALD of HfOgate dielectric.

In yet another embodiment the graphene can be grown at low temperatures about 400 500 C. . Preferably this process involves graphene growth directly on an Ni surface 250 on a substrate like the diamond substrate using a solid carbon precursor which allows graphene growth of single or multiple layers in a highly controlled manner. Such a method is quite compatible with complementary metal oxide semiconductor MOS hereinafter manufacturing processes.

In this preferred embodiment illustrated schematically in several steps are used to produce the desired graphene layers. The substrate is preferably Ni which can take the form of Ni thin film such as for example 300 nm or even bulk Ni foil. In the case of thin film Ni as the substrate the Ni thin film is deposited on the silicon substrate with the intermediate titanium Ti adhesion layer thickness 10 20 nm see . In other embodiments other catalytically suitable like performing transition metal or transition metal alloys substrates can be used to support the polymer layer deposited thereon for processing. Further the base substrate need not be a Si substrate but can be any compatible substrate known in the art. In addition other conventional adhesion layers can be used besides Ti which are compatible with the transition metal layer . The use of a silicon dioxide SiO layer is not required but could be used in case of device isolation. The next step in the process in is to mix two polymers in the solid form n octacosane and n tetracosane in 1 1 wt. percentage and heat the mixture on a hot plate to a temperature of about 80 C. so that it converts into a viscous liquid form. It is also important to note that these polymers have a relatively low melting point less than about 80 C. and high vapor pressure. Therefore they decompose at very low temperatures which is essential for the low temperature growth of graphene. Also in the preferred embodiment only the combination of both of these polymers in the previously mentioned in wt concentration works to facilitate the growth of graphene on Ni at low temperatures. Use of only one of these polymers will not work. Therefore it is important to note that other polymers containing a similar mixture of saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon and alkane hydrocarbon with low melting point will also work for our process.

The prepared polymer solution is then spin coated on the surface of the Ni film followed by cooling the substrate to room temperature so that the polymer solution converts into a thick solid layer. The polymer coated Ni substrate is then transferred into the vacuum furnace for graphene growth. The Ar gas 2000 sccm was then flown into the chamber with the chamber pressure maintained at 300 Torr. The temperature of the vacuum furnace was then raised at around 400 500 C. and maintained for 15 20 mins. This process essentially discomposes the polymer layer on the top of the surface of the Ni and starts precipitating a carbon rich layer on the Ni surface . In the next step shown in the substrate is cooled from 400 500 C. to room temperature at the rate of about 15 30 C. min. This rapid cooling rate converts the graphitic carbon into the graphene layers . The yield and quality of the graphene layers can be improved further by using carbon precursor gas to accelerate the growth of graphene . In that case an Ar Ethanol gas mixture can be flowed into a chamber during the growth at 400 500 C. for few minutes to grow large grain size of the graphene .

In are shown the Raman spectra of the graphene grown at 400 C. and corresponding optical micrograph of the Ni surface respectively confirming the graphene growth. show the Raman spectra of the graphene grown at 500 C. and corresponding optical micrograph of the Ni surface respectively. The graphene quality is better at higher temperature as expected.

This method therefore allows growing multilayer graphene on Ni substrate at low temperature about 400 500 C. . This method also allows growth of graphene at temperatures compatible with a typical CMOS thermal budget which opens up the possibility of integration of the graphene with CMOS electronics. This is a crucial step in developing graphene based hybrid devices with efficient thermal management. No source of carbon containing gas for the graphene growth is required since a polymer layer coated on the substrate itself acts as a solid carbon source. The low temperature process requires less energy than the conventional growth process that occurs at 1000 C. which directly affects economics of fabricating graphene devices on commercial scale. The low temperature growth process was done on a 4 inch diameter wafer but could be easily scalable to large area.

The near edge ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy NEXAFS of the UNCD sample was carried out at the University of Wisconsin Synchrotron Radiation Center Facility. The data was acquired at HERMON beam at carbon K edge with high energy resolution 0.2 0.4 eV . The spectra were taken in the total electron yield TEY mode with the incident photon beam normal to the sample. Special care was taken to correct for the carbon contamination from the X ray beam optics and transmission structure from the monochromator. Details of the measurements are described in the Examples.

In the embodiment of direct growth of graphene on a diamond substrate as shown in the starting material is either single crystal diamond or UNCD NCD thin film deposited on a silicon substrate shown in phantom with Ni thin film typical thickness 30 nm deposited on the top of the diamond or the UNCD NCD thin film . The next step in the process is to anneal the substrate in vacuum furnace in H Ar gas mixture 50 50 ratio at around 800 1000 C. for 15 20 mins. This process essentially dissolves the Ni into the diamond due to the strong catalytic reaction with the diamond . During this process part of the Ni diffuses into the diamond and starts graphitizing the diamond . At the end of this process a few nanometers of the diamond surface from the top surface is completely graphitized and the layer mostly consists of graphitic carbon. The next step involves cooling the substrate from 800 1000 C. to room temperature with the rate of about 30 C. min at the beginning to about 15 C. at the end. This rapid cooling rate converts the graphitic carbon into the graphene layers . The yield and quality of the graphene layers could be improved further by using a carbon precursor gas to accelerate the growth of the graphene . In that case we used Ar Ethanol gas mixture at 1000 C. for few minutes to grow large grain size graphene . It is preferable that the Ni content should be small enough so that it ends up utilizing all of the Ni during the growth and therefore the high quality growth of the graphene can be achieved without trace amount of Ni in sub surface regions of the diamond .

Fabrication of the graphene devices relies on the fact that the graphene can be visualized using optical microscopy if prepared on top of UNCD Si wafers with a certain thickness of the UNCD . Before the diamond growth and graphene device fabrication we estimated an approximate thickness of UNCD required to make graphene visible using Fresnel s law. The results were checked experimentally. Consider the case of normal light incidence from air refractive index n 1 on a tri layer structure consisting of the graphene the diamond and the Si as shown in . The visibility of the graphene on different types of substrates originates from both the relative phase shift and amplitude modification induced by the graphene layer . The complex refractive indices of silicon and diamond used in the calculations were adopted from literature The Si substrate was considered semi infinite and the refractive indices of Si n were assumed to be wavelength dependent. The refractive index of graphene is assumed to be independent of n 2.6 1.3i

The simulations were carried out using conventional MATLAB software. The incident wave was assumed to be perpendicular to the plane of the multiple layers. This is a reasonable assumption because the total thickness of graphene diamond is much smaller than the depth of focus of the objective lens used in most experiments 0.9 1.8 m for 0.4 0.8 m and the numerical aperture of 0.95 within the depth of focus. For this reason the wave front of the focused light is almost flat. shows the calculated grayscale plot for the expected contrast as a function of the diamond thickness and wavelength with the diamond thickness ranging from 0 to 800 nm and the wavelength ranging from 400 nm to 700 nm. One can see from that graphene on diamond Si exhibits a negative contrast i.e. graphene on diamond Si appears brighter than the substrate. Fixing the wavelength at 555 nm the most sensitive wavelength to human eye one gets the thickness of UNCD with the highest contrast to be around 650 nm see .

The effective thermal conductivity of the polished UNCD Si wafers was measured using the transient plane source TPS hot disk technique which is conventional and well known. The thermal conductivity of SCD was measured with the laser flash technique which is more accurate for the materials with high K values. The measured thermal conductivity data was used to determine the thermal resistance of the substrates.

In the TPS method an electrically insulated flat nickel sensor is placed between two pieces of the substrate. The sensor is working as the heater and thermometer simultaneously. A current pulse is passed through the sensor during the measurement to generate the heat wave. Thermal properties of the material are determined by recording temperature rise as a function of time using the equation T P rK D where t r is the thermal diffusivity tis the transient measurement time r is the radius of the sensor p is the input heating power and D is the modified Bessel function. The time and the input power are chosen so that the heat flow is within the sample boundaries and the temperature rise of the sensor is not influenced by the outer boundaries of the sample. To make sure that our system is properly calibrated we measured thermal conductivity of standard Si wafers and compared the results with the literature values. One can see that our measured data are in excellent agreement with the previously reported values. The temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity K 1 T is also in agreement with the theory for high quality crystals. presents the measured K T for a reference Si wafer and a UNCD Si composite substrates. The Si wafer s K scales as 1 T which is expected for semiconductor crystals near and above room temperature. The effective thermal conductivity of the UNCD Si becomes larger than that of Si at higher temperature due to improved inter grain phonon transparency in UNCD.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

