---

title: System and method for cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device
abstract: Disclosed is a method for enabling cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device in a system that includes a game server, a network, one or more gaming machines, and one or more mobile devices. The method includes: associating a player's mobile device with one of the one or more gaming machines at which the player has a gaming session; presenting a player with an option to move their gaming experience to their mobile device when the player leaves the associated gaming machine if a gaming session is in progress; enabling the player to use its mobile device to continue playing a game after the player has left a proximity of the associated gaming machine by transferring the game from the associated gaming machine to the player's mobile device; and enabling transfer of funds between the associated gaming machine and the players' mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659437&OS=09659437&RS=09659437
owner: BALLY GAMING, INC.
number: 09659437
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure is directed to wagering games gaming machines networked gaming systems and methods and in particular to cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device.

In the past various types of gaming machines have been developed with different features to captivate and maintain player interest. In general a gaming machine allows a player to play a game in exchange for a wager. Depending on the outcome of the game the player may be entitled to an award which is paid to the player by the gaming machine normally in the form of currency or game credits. Gaming machines may include flashing displays lighted displays or sound effects to capture a player s interest in a gaming device. There is also the desire to incorporate mobile devices for game play however there are numerous obstacles to the use of mobile devices for game play including the lack of ticket printers and bill acceptors.

Historically there has been Ticket in Ticket Out functionality in gaming machines. Briefly explained when using Ticket in Ticket Out functionality a player inserts cash into a gaming machine but does not receive cash when pressing cash out. Instead he or she receives a paper ticket that may be further inserted into the present or any other gaming machine or redeemed for cash by inserting into a kiosk.

While there is a desire to use mobile devices such as smart phones as gaming devices there remains the problem that these mobile devices do not have access to traditional gaming peripherals such as ticket printers or bill acceptors. It would be desirable to allow mobile devices to participate in playing games with real money in a casino environment leveraging existing infrastructure in a way that makes sense to a player. There is a continuing need in the art to address these and other issues.

Briefly and in general terms a method is disclosed for enabling cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device in a mobile device enhanced system that includes a game server a network one or more gaming machines and one or more mobile devices. The method includes associating a player s mobile device with one of the one or more gaming machines at which the player has a gaming session presenting a player with an option to move their gaming experience to their mobile device when the player leaves the associated gaming machine if a gaming session is in progress wherein the presentation of the option to move the gaming experience is displayed on the gaming machine mobile device or both enabling the player to use its mobile device to continue playing a game after the player has left a proximity of the associated gaming machine by transferring the game from the associated gaming machine to the player s mobile device providing a stream redirector module interposed between the game server and the associated gaming machine receiving video streams from the game server at the stream redirector module modifying the video streams to suit the player s mobile device using the stream redirector module and sending the video streams to the mobile device via the network wherein when the player touches a point on a display on the player s mobile device the coordinates of the touch point are remapped by the stream redirector module back to original screen parameters of the gaming machine display and passed back as touchscreen input to the game server and enabling transfer of funds between the associated gaming machine and the players mobile device.

In another embodiment a method is disclosed of associating a mobile device with a kiosk or gaming machine to enable transfer of funds between the mobile device and the kiosk or gaming machine using a mobile wallet application without the use of tickets ticket printers or ticket readers. The method includes providing a kiosk or gaming machine that includes a QR code or barcode reader displaying a QR code or barcode on the display of the mobile device using the mobile wallet application in response to prompting enabling player activation of an association function of the mobile wallet application reading a QR code or barcode off of the display of the mobile device in response to the mobile device being placed under the QR code or barcode reader uniquely identifying the mobile device uniquely identifying a mobile wallet account in a database and enabling the mobile wallet application to direct funds being withdrawn from the mobile wallet account to be correctly deposited on the kiosk or gaming machine and or enabling the mobile wallet application to direct funds being added to the mobile wallet account to be correctly withdrawn from the kiosk or gaming machine.

In still another embodiment a method is disclosed of associating a mobile device with a gaming machine to enable transfer of funds between the mobile device and the gaming machine using a mobile wallet application without the use of tickets ticket printers or ticket readers. The method includes providing a gaming machine that displays a QR code or barcode in response to prompting enabling player activation of the association function of the mobile application capturing a QR code or barcode displayed by the gaming machine using a camera of the mobile device and the mobile application uniquely identifying the gaming machine uniquely identifying mobile wallet account in the database and enabling the mobile wallet application to direct funds being withdrawn from the mobile wallet account to be correctly deposited on the gaming machine and or enabling the mobile wallet application to direct funds being added to the mobile wallet account to be correctly withdrawn from the gaming machine.

In yet another embodiment a method is disclosed of enabling cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device in a system that includes a game server a network one or more gaming machines and one or more mobile devices. The method includes associating a player s mobile device with one of the one or more gaming machines at which the player has a gaming session presenting a player with an option to move their gaming experience to their mobile device when the player leaves the associated gaming machine if a gaming session is in progress wherein the presentation of the option to move the gaming experience is displayed on the gaming machine mobile device or both enabling the player to use its mobile device to continue playing a game after the player has left a proximity of the associated gaming machine by transferring the game from the associated gaming machine to the player s mobile device and enabling transfer of funds between the associated gaming machine and the players mobile device.

Features and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features of the various embodiments.

Various embodiments are directed to a game gaming machine gaming systems and method for playing a game wherein the gaming system includes cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device. The embodiments are illustrated and described herein by way of example only and not by way of limitation. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown illustrative examples of games gaming machines gaming systems and methods for playing a game in accordance with various aspects of the gaming system which includes cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device.

An example in accordance with one or more aspects of a disclosed embodiment is shown in . A preferred embodiment of a gaming system shown in includes cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device shown in . One aspect of a preferred embodiment is directed towards leveraging mobile devices to enable players to continue playing a game shown in beyond when it is convenient for them to be located at an electronic gaming machine EGM shown in . Otherwise stated a player may use a mobile device to continue playing a game after the player has left the proximity of an EGM by transferring the game from the EGM to the mobile device i.e. a cross platform persistent gaming session . In some embodiments the game can also be transferred back from the mobile device to the EGM .

In another aspect of a preferred embodiment the mobile device enhanced system enables superior interaction with an EGM via a player held mobile device such as a smartphone. A preferred embodiment of this mobile device enhanced system uses streaming video technology to deliver the game content however other embodiments of this system may also use conventional thick client technology i.e. all or most of the required content and processing are located and performed at the client instead of being transmitted from another source .

A preferred embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system provides significant types of functionality that were not previously possible. As shown in the mobile device enhanced system enables a player may continue playing a game after leaving an EGM by transferring the game to the player s mobile device . Second the mobile device enhanced system enables a player who is playing a game on a mobile device to seamlessly transfer their game to an EGM for an enhanced gaming experience.

In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system a player inserts a player tracking card into the card reader before commencing wagering. This action of inserting the player tracking card associates the wagering session with their player account. In this embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system the player also has in their possession a mobile device preferably a smartphone. This smartphone has an application loaded into it that is capable of receiving and displaying a video stream over a network shown in and passing player input back over the network in reaction to events displayed in the video stream. The application is also capable of communicating with a game server shown in over a network to establish game sessions. Moreover in this embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system the EGM is also running application software capable of receiving video streams and displaying the video streams along with software to control passing player input back over the network to a game server .

Referring now to a system configuration is shown that illustrates how the video streams from the game Total Blast may be directed to the EGM using the mobile device enhanced system . In this embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system there is a Stream Redirector module shown in interposed between the game server and the EGM . In some embodiments the Stream Redirector module is employed as a display manager that manages the game display on the gaming machine. This Stream Redirector module may not be a physical module i.e. the Stream Redirector module may be a software or virtual module . In this embodiment the Stream Redirector module is depicted as a separate module. Also for the purposes of clarity player input is not shown in . In this embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system player input passes in the opposite direction from touchscreen displays to the Stream Redirector module and into the virtual game instance.

As disclosed herein one or more games may be streamed to a gaming machine or a mobile device over a network such as the interne a wireless network or the like. The gaming machine and or mobile device which is bound to receive graphical data from the server may include a network interface a decompression module for each display and or each compressed data stream video memory a video encoder for each display and displays.

The server may include software executable on one or more processors one or more graphics processors video memory associated with the one or more graphics processors one or more compression modules and a network interface. In other embodiments the server streams a plurality of games to a plurality of gaming machines and or mobile devices connected to the network .

The software may include software for one or more games . In some embodiments a processor graphics processor video memory and compression module may be dedicated for each instance of gaming software. In other embodiments one or more of the following may be dedicated for each instance of gaming software a processor graphics processor video memory and compression. For example in some embodiments a single processor may execute each instance of gaming software but transmit graphical data to one or more graphics processors reserved for each of the games i.e. four graphics processors one for each game . Other embodiments may have different configurations of these and other components.

The one or more graphics processors receive graphical data generated as a result of the software being executed on the one or more processors. Upon receiving graphical data at least one graphics processor renders the data into a frame of a particular format and may store the rendered frame in video memory. At least one compression module may then receive the frame for compression and compresses i.e. encode the frame. Once the frame is compressed the compressed frame may be sent to the network interface for transmission via a transport protocol over the communication network to the gaming machine and or mobile device .

In some embodiments one or more system components may be added or removed from the system. For example in some embodiments some or all of the graphical data generated at the server may not be compressed by a compression module prior to transmission to the gaming machine or mobile device . Therefore the server may not include one or more compression modules. Otherwise stated some or all of the graphical data may not be compressed after being rendered by a graphics processor.

In the embodiment the gaming machine includes a display manager e.g. stream redirector . In other embodiments the server may include one or more stream redirector instead of the gaming machine e.g. one for each gaming machine . In yet other embodiments a network component such as a router may include a stream redirector instead of the server or gaming machine . In yet further embodiments the server gaming machine a network component or combinations thereof may include a stream redirector .

The stream redirector conducts display management processing on graphical data which may include resealing e.g. resizing and repositioning e.g. changing display area coordinates the graphical data while maintaining the aspect ratio of the graphical data. For example the display management processing may assemble or composite two or more streams of graphical data into a single stream of graphical data. Otherwise stated the display management processing may take two frames of data and convert them into a single frame of data. In addition the stream redirector may receive touch data i.e. touch signals from the displays route the touch data and conduct coordinate transformations if necessary to the processor executing the game with which the touch data is associated.

Referring now to a process is shown using the mobile device enhanced system that illustrates what occurs when a player needs to leave an EGM yet would rather continue playing. Examples of why a player may wish to continue playing could include by way of example only and not by way of limitation 1 Qualification for a goal such as a bonus round 2 A perceived lucky streak and 3 A high progressive jackpot that the player feels is obtainable.

Despite wishing to continue a player may nevertheless have no option but to leave the vicinity of the EGM for a pre existing engagement or even to catch a flight home. By using the mobile device enhanced system a player may continue playing the gaming session until the player is out of network range.

In one embodiment when a player leaves an EGM while using the mobile device enhanced system the player removes their player tracking card from the player tracking card reader. If the player wishes to continue playing the gaming session on their mobile device the player may signal appropriately by selecting an icon or other command on the EGM or iView display or other player tracking module display .

In yet another embodiment the mobile device enhanced system may employ an EGM that incorporates a Bluetooth transmission system. In such an embodiment when a player is seated at the EGM an application running on their mobile device is also Bluetooth enabled and is in communication with the EGM. This establishes a link between the game session and the mobile device . When the player moves out of Bluetooth transmission range from the EGM or the Bluetooth transmission link is otherwise broken the game session link may continue to be active from the game server even though it is not continuously connected.

Continuing now with respect to as a player leaves the EGM their account is disassociated with the EGM . If a game session is not currently in progress e.g. if no credits are active and there is no progress state associated with the game session then the gaming session is terminated and no action is performed.

However when using mobile device enhanced system if a gaming session is in progress when a player leaves the EGM the player is presented with an option to move their experience to their mobile device. This presentation may take place on either or both of the EGM and mobile device . In another aspect of the mobile device enhanced system to further notify the player of the mobile gaming options the player s mobile device may vibrate or play a sound to bring attention the possibility of continuing the game. Such a notification is shown in .

If a player doesn t wish to continue playing the session the game session is terminated. Any credits or game state are preserved in the player account for later use. Otherwise the Stream Redirector module modifies the output of the video streams to suit the mobile device and begins sending the video streams to the mobile device via a network e.g. which is preferably WiFi but is also possible over a cellular data connection if gaming regulations permit .

Referring now to an embodiment is shown using the mobile device enhanced system that illustrates how the Total Blast game may be presented to the player on the player s mobile device . It should be noted that this display on the player s mobile device typically consists of two video streams or audio video streams mixed together into one the Main Screen stream along with the iDeck virtual button deck stream.

Referring now to a configuration of the mobile device enhanced system is shown that illustrates how the mobile connection is established. From the perspective of the virtual game instance nothing has changed with respect to executing the game logic and rendering the graphics of the game. The operation of the Stream Redirector module has changed however. The Stream Redirector module now re encodes both the main screen streaming content and iDeck streaming content into one combined stream of content. This re encode process may also adjust the screen resolution and bitrate of the resulting stream of content to better suit the capabilities of the mobile device and or network . In embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system that employ games in which all three screens are necessary e.g. the top screen is functional for a game to perform correctly the Stream Redirector may perform more complex logic to support the merging of all three streams of content.

In another aspect of the mobile device enhanced system when a player touches a relevant point of the display on the player s mobile device the coordinates are remapped by the Stream Redirector module into the original resolution of the display and passed back to the relevant touchscreen input of the virtual game instance. This remapping of the touchscreen coordinates assists in compensating for varying screen sizes and proportions between the display s of the EGM and the display of the player s mobile device .

When using the mobile device enhanced system once a virtual game s content streams are redirected towards a mobile device the EGM begins a new gaming session. In some embodiments this gaming session is of an identical game but different instance to the game that was redirected to mobile device . In other embodiments another game may be chosen by the game server to be executed on the EGM that is different than the game being shown on the mobile device dependent upon heuristics such as the time of day number of patrons in casino or other data.

Another aspect of the mobile device enhanced system enables a player to use a mobile device to facilitate a gaming session platform transfer. In one example shown in a player approaches an EGM with an existing game session running on their mobile device . This may be a game session that originated on that EGM at an earlier time but this is not necessary. Using the mobile device enhanced system the player associates their account with the EGM . Preferably this action is performed by the player inserting their player tracking card. Alternatively the player may activate a command icon on the display of the EGM or as discussed above a Bluetooth pairing between the EGM and the mobile device may be used to establish a link.

Once the EGM and the mobile device have been associated with each other the game server checks to see if a game session is in progress. If a game session is in progress an option is presented on the EGM and or the mobile device to move the gaming experience to the EGM . shows the mobile device enhanced system presenting this option to the player.

Notably as shown in the game currently being played on the EGM may not be the same game as on the mobile device . In this example the EGM was previously playing the Lightning Sevens game but the game that is presented on the mobile device is the Total Blast game. If the player chooses to continue playing Total Blast game the virtual instance of the Lightning Sevens game is shut down or may be hibernated. Using the mobile device enhanced system a hibernated game may be later woken up by the player when the player again needs to leave the vicinity of the EGM but would still like to continue to play a game. In this manner the player can use the mobile device enhanced system to pick up where he or she left off with the previous gaming session on the mobile device .

In another embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system a further enhancement is possible when the game on the mobile device is re directed to an EGM . Since the player typically has a mobile device in their possession containing software that is capable of receiving a video stream and sending back touchscreen player input the player s mobile device can be used to enhance the gaming experience at the EGM .

An example of such an enhancement using the mobile device enhanced system is shown in . In this example the mobile device enhanced system is configured such that the Stream Redirector module is sending outputs from the virtual game instance onto the displays of the EGM . In addition the Stream Redirector module is also sending a re formatted and re encoded copy of the iDeck display or other virtual button deck display over the network to the mobile device . In this example this copy enables the player to use the mobile device as a replacement iDeck. In this manner a player can sit back and comfortably interact with the game using their mobile device rather than leaning forward towards the EGM .

Further enhancements are also possible with this configuration. The mobile device could have additional content displayed upon it which could also interact with the displays of the EGM as described with respect to Augmented Reality Gaming U.S. application Ser. No. 12 969 462 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Notably the mobile device enhanced system lends itself to personalized gaming experiences. Since a gaming session is tied to a mobile device and or player account games may be designed that have longer storylines than a single spin. If a player closes the mobile application the virtual game instance may remain active or hibernated ready for the player to resume at a later time on the mobile device or an EGM . Also in some embodiments the games may be designed to operate differently depending upon the display device. For example a dice game may be operated at an EGM by a button press or a touchscreen gesture but when running on the mobile device the accelerometer of the mobile device if available may be used to shake the mobile device and thus the virtual dice to initiate a wager.

While the above embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system have been discussed with respect to the use streaming technology to deliver the content to the display devices e.g. the mobile device the EGM and the like other embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system use conventional thick client technology. In some such implementations the mobile device may not be trusted by gaming regulation standards so a persistent network link would be used to host the game outcome in a secure server based environment.

In such an embodiment instead of stream redirection both the EGM and the mobile device would host software applications implementing the game presentation. At the point where the game is transferred from EGM to mobile device or vice versa the game state instead would be transferred along with meter values to the new client. In the case of moving to the mobile device if the EGM has been actually performing all of the game logic without a server a new game virtual instance would be created at the server for hosting the game on the insecure mobile device . When moving from the mobile device to a non server based EGM the data from the virtual instance would be passed to the EGM and then the virtual instance of the game would be shut down.

Additionally preferred embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system typically enable 1 players to continue playing games even when they are not at an EGM 2 players to have an EGM like experience on mobile devices 3 games to be enhanced to take into account the availability of a mobile device without the extra costs associated with providing mobile devices to the players and 4 game play to be limited to only operate within Wi Fi range of EGMs which may be advantageous for gaming regulations.

Moreover preferred embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system typically include structural and or operational features such as 1 seamless transfer of game play between mobile devices and EGMs and vice versa 2 saving of gaming session for resumption later either on a mobile device or on an EGM and 3 use of mobile device as alternative input device to EGM .

A preferred embodiment of this mobile device enhanced system enables players to play game sessions across mobile and conventional EGM platforms as shown in . Additionally some aspects of this mobile device enhanced system are directed towards the transfer of funding between electronic gaming machines mobile devices and paper tickets as well as cash credit cards.

In embodiment of this mobile device enhanced system the mobile device acts from the player s perspective as a mobile wallet. However in actual implementation and functionality the mobile device does not store the funds. These financial transactions are stored in a database on a server. The mobile device must therefore have network connectivity to be functional. This is a configuration that may be achieved through the use of smart phones and ubiquitous nature of network infrastructure such as 3G or WiFi mobile phone networks. In a preferred embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system the mobile device also has a rear facing camera that is capable of acquiring QR codes or barcodes. Specifically illustrates how a player may interact with the mobile device enhanced system .

In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system the mobile wallet is configured to interface with via an application that is loaded onto the mobile device as well as on kiosks and EGMs . Accordingly to one embodiment shows how this helper application interacts with other elements of the mobile device enhanced system such as kiosks and EGMs .

In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system security levels are utilized for identification and or authentication during the association process. These security components include identification and or authentication of the device ID of the gaming machine and mobile device the user name of the player and the password of the player. In some embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system biometrics are used to assist in the security efforts of the employed to access the mobile device and the player s financial account. In such an embodiment a biometric reader may be used which may take a variety of forms for instance a fingerprint reader iris scan microphone and voice recognition software hand vein pattern detection or combinations thereof. In alternate embodiments a patron s written signature may be digitized and verified against a signature database. For example a player may sign on a surface computer display with finger or stylus . Biometric analysis may be performed at the gaming system e.g. table or arcade style gaming systems or may be performed by remotely located remote system computer system.

Also for example a player s identity and proximity may be detected by the sensor subsystem or other subsystem of the gaming system. For instance a transponder carried by a piece of media or a wireless communication device which is carried by or otherwise associated with a player may be wireless detected via wireless interrogation. The piece of media may take any of a variety of forms for instance a loyalty program card driver s license credit debit or prepaid card. Proximity data acquired by the gaming system may for example include a location in the casino e.g. x y and z coordinates or GPS data . The gaming system or some other system may associate the proximity data with a player identifier. Based at least one part on the location coordinates the system may create a logical relationship between the player identifier and a particular gaming system a table identifier seat identifier and or player position identifier.

A player may identify him or herself at the gaming system by placing a piece of media e.g. loyalty program or patron club card driver s license credit debit or prepaid card on the playing surface. A sensor subsystem may read the media and a CMP CMS system may identify the player from the read information. The display subsystem may display indicia representing cash and or point balances one or more accounts associated with the player. The player may employ a user interface to transfer funds from their account for example to a credit meter of the gaming system or as virtual chips. The transfer may require entry and approval of a personal identification number PIN biometric data and or password. The user interface may include one or more user selectable icons displayed on or below the playing surface or some separate device such as a PIN pad keypad or keyboard for example located at each seat. Transfers may employ appropriate security protocols and encryption for example AFT or WAT transfer protocols of SAS or the GSA G2S class respectively.

In some embodiments the mobile device enhanced system facilitates wireless transfer of funds from a personal computing device and or wireless communication device capable of performing funds transfer using the Mobile Wallet inside the device from a remote financial institution or from other points or cash funds account. Personal computing and or wireless communication devices may take a variety of forms for example a cell phone iPhone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer BLACKBERRY TREO and other such devices. The device may establish wireless communication with the table or arcade style gaming system or with a casino patron account. Funds may be debited from or credited to the device or a remote financial account. The communication protocol may take a variety of forms for example Bluetooth or Wi Fi but other standard networking protocols are envisioned as long as the protocols support security via authentication and or encryption of the transmissions and transactions.

Another embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system facilitates a kiosk to be used to enable a player to add or release funds from their play game. This is performed in a manner somewhat similar to a conventional Ticket In Ticket Out TITO system but without the use of tickets ticket printers or ticket readers. The kiosk does not require a ticket printer or bill validator for other funding sources such as credit cards debit cards and the like.

Referring now to and in one embodiment of a kiosk in the mobile device enhanced system is shown. A player may swipe their credit card or debit card to access funds or insert cash via a bill acceptor. These funding sources may be applied to a mobile wallet using the mobile device enhanced system .

To apply funds to a mobile wallet using the mobile device enhanced system the player must either associate a mobile device or player tracking card with the kiosk. As shown in to associate a player tracking card with the kiosk the player simply swipes the card when prompted. To associate with a mobile device with the kiosk the kiosk preferably uses a QR barcode reader. The mobile wallet application has the capability to display a QR code on the display of the mobile device . In response to prompting the player activates the association function of the mobile application and places the mobile device e.g. smart phone under the barcode reader. As shown in in such an embodiment the kiosk application then reads the QR code and from the display of the mobile device and uniquely identifies the mobile device and thus its mobile wallet account in the database.

In either case when the association is complete funds are in the mobile wallet and can be used at an EGM or on a mobile device for game play. In a further enhancement for mobile device play the player can choose the initial game or available game suite from the kiosk as well.

As shown in using the mobile device enhanced system a player may also fund game play at an EGM using a mobile device or player card. Specifically and each show possible transaction flows. In one of the scenarios shown a player card is not used while in the other scenario shown a player card is in use.

In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system where a mobile device is being used the player associates the mobile device with the EGM . This is achieved by bringing up an association function of the mobile device as shown in . In this embodiment the player then points the camera of the mobile device at the EGM which is modified to display a QR code on its artwork as seen in . This QR code uniquely identifies the EGM and enables the mobile wallet helper application to direct the funds being withdrawn to be correctly deposited on the EGM. As shown in the user interface for this transaction may be presented on the mobile device . Conversely funds won or inserted into the bill acceptor of the EGM may be delivered to the mobile wallet upon cashout for use on the mobile device or at a kiosk as described below.

In some preferred embodiments a player may switch their game play from an EGM to a mobile device and back again. This type of game transfer between platforms is referred to herein as Games on the Go. Once a mobile device and an EGM are associated with each other a gaming session can be moved from one to the other. Additionally once a mobile device and an EGM are associated with each other funding also can be moved from one to the other. In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system this association may be preferably performed by the QR code acquisition described above with respect to or via the insertion of a player tracking card to associate a player tracking account with both the EGM and mobile device . In addition to these preferred methods alternative methods could include manual input of an account name PIN at the EGM or communication over Bluetooth or NFC between the EGM and the mobile device .

Transactions which may trigger the movement of the session could include a QR scan by the player which would move the gaming session from a mobile device to the EGM . As shown in pressing the cashout button at the EGM would initiate or prompt movement of the gaming session from the EGM to the mobile device i.e. in the opposite direction . As shown in in the case of a transaction in which a player card is being used carding out would also prompt movement i.e. transfer of the gaming session.

As noted above in some preferred embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system the kiosk may be used to redeem credits as cash or direct funding into an external bank credit card account. The transaction flows for these embodiments are shown in and . Specifically in the players use their mobile devices to identify the correct mobile wallet account to the kiosk. In one preferred embodiment the players do this by pressing Redeem ticket on their mobile device . This causes a mobile device to display a QR code which can be scanned by the QR barcode scanner affixed to the kiosk. Importantly this transaction corresponds to the redemption process of a conventional physical ticket which may be redeemed by being scanned by the same scanner .

Alternatively as shown in if a player has a player tracking card the player can insert this card in the kiosk. This allows the kiosk to identify the mobile wallet account and present options to the player for withdrawal of cash.

An additional feature of the mobile device enhanced system enables a player to convert existing physical tickets into mobile wallet funds by the use of a barcode scanner application built into the mobile application. This scanner application uses the rear camera on the mobile device to read the barcode on the ticket and deposit the funds into the mobile wallet account. The physical ticket can then be discarded.

In one embodiment of the mobile device enhanced system the system enables players to easily consolidate tickets and also convert tickets into funds even after they have left the casino which is conventionally difficult. Such funds may be used for online game play or at a later date in the casino without having to keep possession of physical tickets.

In some embodiments the mobile device enhanced system provides features that include 1 integration with existing ticket printer and bill acceptor infrastructure 2 handling both player tracked accounts and anonymous players 3 ease of use for player comfortable with TITO inserting their phone into a scanner rather than a ticket similar to the way supermarket self serve checkouts or boarding pass terminals at airports may work 4 not requiring extra peripherals at the EGM since association is achieved by display of QR code on artwork and only a software change is needed and 5 enabling players to fund an EGM from their mobile device or vice versa.

Preferred embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system typically include 1 a smartphone or tablet with rear facing camera and network connectivity e.g. Wifi or 3G 2 QR code technology as the preferred visual encoding of identifiers and 3 a Kiosk with an optical scanner for reading barcodes QR codes. Moreover preferred embodiments of the mobile device enhanced system typically include structural and or operational features such as 1 use of mobile device as a way of transferring funds between multiple EGMs or EGMs and kiosks 2 conversion of paper tickets into mobile wallet funds and 3 seamless transfer of funds along with game session.

A preferred embodiment of this gaming system which includes cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device leverages existing mobile smart phones. By way of example only and not by way of limitation such smart phones include Apple s iPhone series Google s Droid and Nexus One series Palm s Pre series and RIM s Blackberry series of smart phones. Most if not all of these smart phones include a built in camera that can be controlled by software applications. Accordingly preferred embodiments of this gaming system move the camera from the gaming machine to a smart phone. In more detail the components that make up the gaming system having cross platform persistent gaming sessions using a mobile device may be seen in .

The captured image is also sent up to the CMS via the secure cellular internet connection. As an alternative to the use of secure connections over the internet a WiFi local network may also be used if it is present in the casino. At the CMS the image analysis software passes the self portrait to the facial recognition system.

In addition to the credentials described above in another aspect of some embodiments the smart phone itself may be married to a particular user. In such embodiments in every transaction a unique identifier for the phone may also be transmitted. This identifier is set at the time of installation and cannot be changed by the technician. Alternatively the phone s IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity number or other cellular identifier may be used.

In addition to a barcode on the exterior of the gaming machine each peripheral within the machine may also have a barcode. By scanning the barcode with the camera on the mobile phone using the mobile phone application context sensitive help may also be retrieved for maintaining the peripheral or for determining the asset status or configuration of a peripheral.

In such embodiments of the disclosed gaming system smart phones are utilized that include a built in gyroscope as well as location tracking technology such as a digital compass and a GPS system Global Positioning System . These features enable the accurate position and orientation of the smart phones and its user to be derived. Additionally some other embodiments of the disclosed gaming system use object recognition and OCR Optical character recognition techniques combined with location orientation derivation to provide players in casinos easy ways of finding games progressive jackpots particular machines and other players of their choice.

In another aspect of some embodiments gaming systems are utilized that include mobile gaming capabilities. In such embodiments of the disclosed gaming system smart phones are utilized that include built in object recognition technologies and OCR Optical character recognition techniques combined with location orientation derivation to provide players in casinos with additional gaming options and opportunities. In one embodiment of a gaming system that includes mobile gaming capabilities the gaming system leverages the possession by players of smart phones to enable the manufacturer to build profiles of players and target valuable players for promotions of key products of the manufacture.

Continuing in some embodiments of the gaming system having mobile gaming capabilities the Geographic Restrictions file includes some combination of cell tower identifier reverse DNS lookup and GPS address to restrict the eligibility of some bonuses. In another aspect of some embodiments the Demographic Restrictions file includes some bonuses that are available to players in certain demographic groups such as age ranges. In still another aspect the Time Restrictions field includes bonuses that may be only available at certain times of the week or for a fixed length of time.

Referring now to the smart phone application of the gaming system having mobile gaming capabilities the smart phone application is comprised of a number of smaller modules. In some embodiments the smart phone application has a user interface that interfaces with the Player Web Interface module. This enables the smart phone application to provide periodic updates with new offers which may be targeted to the player.

In another aspect the application also includes an image capture module. The image capture module is activated by the player upon them pressing the Take Picture button for a particular offer. In some embodiments the image capture module controls the built in camera on the smart phone and displays a copy of the current camera captured image on the phone s display much like a conventional camera application. Additionally a button is also presented to the player to be pressed when the display of the gaming machine is roughly centered in the camera view. In another embodiment no button is used and image analysis algorithms built into the capture module detect the presence of game symbols in the camera view and immediately begins capturing images. The presence of game meters read by OCR or a physical barcode sticker may be used to automatically begin capturing images.

In some preferred implementations of the gaming system having mobile gaming capabilities the image capture module reads the values of the accelerometers from the phone and does not capture images unless the phone is relatively stable i.e. only small amounts of acceleration detected . This assists the player in making a good image capture in the low in door light of a casino. In some embodiments the auto focus algorithms of the phone s camera only allow photos to be taken that are sharp. Additionally as each image is taken it may be analyzed using box filters and Fourier transforms to detect the overall sharpness of the image. The application may also take multiple image captures until an image is taken that is suitably sharp and contains recognizable data such as meter values in acceptable areas of the image.

In another aspect of the gaming system the Image Encoder module in the smart phone application encodes the image for transmission to the Image Analysis Module. Since the link between the Image Analysis module and the mobile phone is over a public data network such as the internet in some embodiments it is important that all communication is encrypted. Furthermore public key encryption may be used with server applications only permitting the connection from phones that can prove to be authorized to participate in the bonus system by means of a digital signature. To prevent hacking it is preferred that the smart phone application platform be relatively secure with the application only being distributed through authorized channels such as the smart phone manufacturer s Application store or the gaming machines manufacturer s website. In some embodiments of the gaming system encryption keys and methods are periodically updated to make it more difficult for a hacker to insert their own images into the system. Along with the fraud detection methods disclosed above these hacker prevention modules are configured to make the risk of significant loss very low.

An alternative for players who do not have access to a smart phone is that casinos or bars may be supplied with phones capable of running the mobile phone application. In the event of a qualifying win the player calls for assistance and has an attendant or bartender performs the photo verification process.

In some embodiments of the disclosed gaming system players may use their smart phone to take a photo of the machine and obtain access to the following capabilities a Tournament across venues e.g. each player signs in time limited and the like b take photo of a game or barcode to download a mobile application version of the game c obtain a free copy of the mobile game for winning some trivial amount which ensures players play a game a minimum amount of time and d take a photo of game to see what gaming machine manufacturer offers are available.

Some preferred implementations of the disclosed embodiments use 1 a smart phone for the client 2 any suitable web server for communication with the smart phone and registration of players and 3 OpenCV image analysis software. Additionally some embodiments provide features that include by way of example only 1 alternative player tracking bonusing and a marketing method for gaming manufacturers 2 the capabilities to work with existing games without requiring any modification and 3 leveraging existing smart mobile phone infrastructure. In other aspects some embodiments provide 1 detection of a win by image analysis without any access to game code 2 detection of fraudulent entries by analysis of symbols displayed meters on the screen location and time of image taken 3 capture of multiple images to prevent fraud and also more accurately detect wins 4 alternative method of determining player value e.g. using win amounts instead of using coin in 5 enabling the addition of ad hoc tournaments to existing games and 6 enabling the targeted marketing of new games for valuable players.

In accordance with one or more embodiments illustrate a gaming machine including cabinet housing primary game display upon which a primary game and feature game may be displayed top box which may display multiple progressives that may be won during play of the primary or feature game player activated buttons player tracking panel bill voucher acceptor and one or more speakers . Cabinet housing is a self standing unit that is generally rectangular in shape and may be manufactured with reinforced steel or other rigid materials which are resistant to tampering and vandalism. Cabinet housing houses a processor circuitry and software not shown for receiving signals from the player activated buttons operating the games and transmitting signals to the respective displays and speakers. Any shaped cabinet may be implemented with any embodiment of gaming machine so long as it provides access to a player for playing a game. For example cabinet may comprise a slant top bar top or table top style cabinet. The operation of gaming machine is described more fully below.

In another aspect of one embodiment the plurality of player activated buttons may be used for various functions such as but not limited to selecting a wager denomination selecting a game to be played selecting a wager amount per game initiating a game or cashing out money from gaming machine . The Buttons functions to input mechanisms and may include mechanical buttons electromechanical buttons or touch screen buttons. Optionally a handle may be rotated by a player to initiate a game.

In other embodiments buttons may be replaced with various other input mechanisms known in the art such as but not limited to a touch screen system touch pad track ball mouse switches toggle switches or other input means used to accept player input. For example one input means is a universal button module as disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 106 212 entitled Universal Button Module filed on Apr. 14 2005 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference. Generally the universal button module provides a dynamic button system adaptable for use with various games and capable of adjusting to gaming systems having frequent game changes. More particularly the universal button module may be used in connection with playing a game on a gaming machine and may be used for such functions as selecting the number of credits to bet per hand. In other embodiments a virtual button deck may be used to provide similar capabilities. An example of a virtual button deck is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 203 entitled Game Related Systems Methods and Articles That Combine Virtual and Physical Elements filed on Nov. 9 2007 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

Cabinet housing may optionally include top box which contains top glass comprising advertising or payout information related to the game or games available on gaming machine . Player tracking panel includes player tracking card reader and player tracking display . Voucher printer may be integrated into player tracking panel or installed elsewhere in cabinet housing or top box .

Game display presents a game of chance wherein a player receives one or more outcomes from a set of potential outcomes. For example one such game of chance is a video slot machine game. In other aspects of the invention gaming machine may present a video or mechanical reel slot machine a video keno game a lottery game a bingo game a Class II bingo game a roulette game a craps game a blackjack game a mechanical or video representation of a primary wheel game or the like.

Mechanical or video mechanical embodiments may include game displays such as mechanical reels wheels or dice as required to present the game to the player. In video mechanical or pure video embodiments game display is typically a CRT or a flat panel display in the form of but not limited to liquid crystal plasma electroluminescent vacuum fluorescent field emission or any other type of panel display known or developed in the art. Game display may be mounted in either a portrait or landscape orientation and be of standard or widescreen dimensions i.e. a ratio of one dimension to another of at least 16 9 . For example a widescreen display may be 32 inches wide by 18 inches tall. A widescreen display in a portrait orientation may be 32 inches tall by 18 inches wide. illustrates an example of a portrait mode game display having widescreen dimensions in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Additionally game display preferably includes a touch screen or touch glass system not shown and presents player interfaces such as but not limited to credit meter not shown win meter not shown and touch screen buttons not shown . An example of a touch glass system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 942 571 entitled Gaming Device with Direction and Speed Control of Mechanical Reels Using Touch Screen which is hereby incorporated by reference. Furthermore as described above game display may include transparent portions which cover and may interact with displays on mechanical reels as described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 113 112 entitled MECHANICAL REELS WITH INTERACTIVE DISPLAY filed on Apr. 30 2008 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

Game display may also present information such as but not limited to player information advertisements and casino promotions graphic displays news and sports updates or may even offer an alternate game. This information may be generated through a host computer networked with gaming machine on its own initiative or it may be obtained by request of the player using either 1 one or more of the plurality of player activated buttons 2 the game display itself if game display comprises a touch screen or similar technology 3 buttons not shown mounted on game display which may permit selections such as those found on an ATM machine where legends on the screen are associated with respective selecting buttons or 4 any player input device that offers the required functionality.

Cabinet housing incorporates a single game display . However in alternate embodiments cabinet housing or top box may house one or more additional displays or components used for various purposes including additional game play screens animated top glass progressive meters or mechanical or electromechanical devices not shown such as but not limited to wheels pointers or reels. The additional displays may or may not include a touch screen or touch glass system.

Referring to electronic gaming machine is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments. Electronic gaming machine includes base game integrated circuit board EGM Processor Board connected through serial bus line to game monitoring unit GMU such as a Bally MC300 or ACSC NT and player interface integrated circuit board PIB connected to player interface devices over bus lines . Printer is connected to PIB and GMU over bus lines . EGM Processor Board PIB and GMU connect to Ethernet switch over bus lines . Ethernet switch connects to a slot management system SMS and a casino management system CMS network over bus line . GMU also may connect to the SMS and CMS network over bus line . Speakers connect through audio mixer and bus lines to EGM Processor Board and PIB . The proximity and biometric devices and circuitry may be installed by upgrading a commercially available PIB such as a Bally iVIEW unit. Coding executed on EGM Processor Board PID and or GMU may be upgraded to integrate a game having an interactive wheel game as is more fully described herein.

Peripherals connect through bus to EGM Processor Board . For example a bill ticket acceptor is typically connected to a game input output board which is in turn connected to a conventional central processing unit CPU board such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor mounted on a gaming motherboard. I O board may be connected to CPU processor board by a serial connection such as RS 232 or USB or may be attached to the processor by a bus such as but not limited to an ISA bus. The gaming motherboard may be mounted with other conventional components such as are found on conventional personal computer motherboards and loaded with a game program which may include a gaming machine operating system OS such as a Bally Alpha OS. Processor board executes a game program that causes processor board to play a game. In one embodiment the game program provides a slot machine game having an interactive wheel feature game. The various components and included devices may be installed with conventionally and or commercially available components devices and circuitry into a conventionally and or commercially available gaming machine cabinet examples of which are described above.

When a player has inserted a form of currency such as for example and without limitation paper currency coins or tokens cashless tickets or vouchers electronic funds transfers or the like into the currency acceptor a signal is sent by way of I O board to processor board which in turn assigns an appropriate number of credits for play in accordance with the game program. The player may further control the operation of the gaming machine by way of other peripherals for example to select the amount to wager via electromechanical or touch screen buttons. The game starts in response to the player operating a start mechanism such as a handle or touch screen icon.

The game program includes a random number generator to provide a display of randomly selected indicia on one or more displays. In some embodiments the random number generator may be physically separate from gaming machine . For example it may be part of a central determination host system which provides random game outcomes to the game program. Thereafter the player may or may not interact with the game through electromechanical or touch screen buttons to change the displayed indicia. Finally processor board under control of the game program and OS compares the final display of indicia to a pay table. The set of possible game outcomes may include a subset of outcomes related to the triggering of a feature game. In the event the displayed outcome is a member of this subset processor board under control of the game program and by way of I O Board may cause feature game play to be presented on a feature display.

Predetermined payout amounts for certain outcomes including feature game outcomes are stored as part of the game program. Such payout amounts are in response to instructions from processor board provided to the player in the form of coins credits or currency via I O board and a pay mechanism which may be one or more of a credit meter a coin hopper a voucher printer an electronic funds transfer protocol or any other payout means known or developed in the art.

In various embodiments the game program is stored in a memory device not shown connected to or mounted on the gaming motherboard. By way of example but not by limitation such memory devices include external memory devices hard drives CD ROMs DVDs and flash memory cards. In an alternative embodiment the game programs are stored in a remote storage device. In one embodiment the remote storage device is housed in a remote server. The gaming machine may access the remote storage device via a network connection including but not limited to a local area network connection a TCP IP connection a wireless connection or any other means for operatively networking components together. Optionally other data including graphics sound files and other media data for use with the EGM are stored in the same or a separate memory device not shown . Some or all of the game program and its associated data may be loaded from one memory device into another for example from flash memory to random access memory RAM .

In one or more embodiments peripherals may be connected to the system over Ethernet connections directly to the appropriate server or tied to the system controller inside the EGM using USB serial or Ethernet connections. Each of the respective devices may have upgrades to their firmware utilizing these connections.

GMU includes an integrated circuit board a GMU processor and memory including coding for network communications such as the G2S game to system protocol from the Gaming Standards Association Las Vegas Nev. used for system communications over the network. As shown GMU may connect to card reader through bus and may thereby obtain player card information and transmit the information over the network through bus . Gaming activity information may be transferred by the EGM Processor Board to GMU where the information may be translated into a network protocol such as S2S for transmission to a server such as a player tracking server where information about a player s playing activity may be stored in a designated server database.

PID includes an integrated circuit board PID processor and memory which includes an operating system such as Windows CE a player interface program which may be executable by the PID processor together with various input output I O drivers for respective devices which connect to PID such as player interface devices and which may further include various games or game components playable on PID or playable on a connected network server and PID which is operable as the player interface. PID connects to card reader through bus display through video decoder and bus such as an LVDS or VGA bus.

As part of its programming the PID processor executes coding to drive display and provides messages and information to a player. Touch screen circuitry interactively connects display and video decoder to PID such that a player may input information and cause the information to be transmitted to PID either on the player s initiative or responsive to a query by PID . Additionally soft keys connect through bus to PID and operates together with display to provide information or queries to a player and receive responses or queries from the player. PID in turn communicates over the CMS SMS network through Ethernet switch and busses and with respective servers such as a player tracking server.

Player interface devices are linked into the virtual private network of the system components in gaming machine . The system components include the iVIEW processing board and game monitoring unit GMU processing board. These system components may connect over a network to the slot management system such as a commercially available Bally SDS SMS and or casino management system such as a commercially available Bally CMP CMS .

The GMU system component has a connection to the base game through a serial SAS connection and is connected to various servers using for example HTTPs over Ethernet. Through this connection firmware media operating system software or gaming machine configurations can be downloaded to the system components from the servers. This data is authenticated prior to installation on the system components.

The system components include the iVIEW processing board and game monitoring unit GMU processing board. The GMU and iVIEW or other player tracking unit can be combined into one like the commercially available Bally GTM iVIEW device. This device may have a video mixing technology to mix the EGM processor s video signals with the iVIEW display onto the top box monitor or any monitor on the gaming device.

In accordance with one or more embodiments is a functional block diagram of a gaming kernel of a game program under control of processor board using gaming kernel by calling it into application programming interface API which is part of game manager . The components of game kernel as shown in are only illustrative and should not be considered limiting. For example the number of managers may be changed additional managers may be added or some managers may be removed without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

As shown in the example there are three layers a hardware layer an operating system layer such as but not limited to Linux and a game kernel layer having game manager therein. In one or more embodiments the use of a standard operating system such as a UNIX based or Windows based operating system allows game developers interfacing to the gaming kernel to use any of a number of standard development tools and environments available for the operating systems. This is in contrast to the use of proprietary low level interfaces which may require significant time and engineering investments for each game upgrade hardware upgrade or feature upgrade. The game kernel layer executes at the user level of the operating system and itself contains a major component called the I O Board Server . To properly set the bounds of game application software making integrity checking easier all game applications interact with gaming kernel using a single API in game manager . This enables game applications to make use of a well defined consistent interface as well as making access points to gaming kernel controlled where overall access is controlled using separate processes.

For example game manager parses an incoming command stream and when a command dealing with I O comes in arrow the command is sent to an applicable library routine . Library routine decides what it needs from a device and sends commands to I O Board Server see arrow . A few specific drivers remain in operating system s kernel shown as those below line . These are built in primitive or privileged drivers that are i general ii kept to a minimum and iii easier to leave than extract. In such cases the low level communications are handled within operating system and the contents are passed to library routines .

Thus in a few cases library routines may interact with drivers inside operating system which is why arrow is shown as having three directions between library utilities and I O Board Server or between library utilities and certain drivers in operating system . No matter which path is taken the logic needed to work with each device is coded into modules in the user layer of the diagram. Operating system is kept as simple stripped down and common across as many hardware platforms as possible. The library utilities and user level drivers change as dictated by the game cabinet or game machine in which it will run. Thus each game cabinet or game machine may have an industry standard processor board connected to a unique relatively dumb and as inexpensive as possible I O adapter board plus a gaming kernel which will have the game machine unique library routines and I O Board Server components needed to enable game applications to interact with the gaming machine cabinet. Note that these differences are invisible to the game application software with the exception of certain functional differences i.e. if a gaming cabinet has stereo sound the game application will be able to make use of API to use the capability over that of a cabinet having traditional monaural sound .

Game manager provides an interface into game kernel providing consistent predictable and backwards compatible calling methods syntax and capabilities by way of game application API . This enables the game developer to be free of dealing directly with the hardware including the freedom to not have to deal with low level drivers as well as the freedom to not have to program lower level managers although lower level managers may be accessible through game manager s interface if a programmer has the need. In addition to the freedom derived from not having to deal with the hardware level drivers and the freedom of having consistent callable object oriented interfaces to software managers of those components drivers game manager provides access to a set of upper level managers also having the advantages of consistent callable object oriented interfaces and further providing the types and kinds of base functionality required in casino type games. Game manager providing all the advantages of its consistent and richly functional interface as supported by the rest of game kernel thus provides a game developer with a multitude of advantages.

Game manager may have several objects within itself including an initialization object not shown . The initialization object performs the initialization of the entire game machine including other objects after game manager has started its internal objects and servers in appropriate order. In order to carry out this function the kernel s configuration manager is among the first objects to be started. The configuration manager has the data needed to initialize and correctly configure other objects or servers.

The upper level managers of game kernel may include game event log manager which provides at the least a logging or logger base class enabling other logging objects to be derived from this base object. The logger object is a generic logger. Otherwise stated the logger object is not aware of the contents of logged messages and events. The log manager s job is to log events in non volatile event log space. The size of the space may be fixed although the size of the logged event is typically not. When the event space or log space fills up one embodiment deletes the oldest logged event each logged event has a time date stamp as well as other needed information such as length providing space to record the new event. In this embodiment the most recent events are found in the log space regardless of their relative importance. Further provided is the capability to read the stored logs for event review.

In accordance with one embodiment meter manager manages the various meters embodied in the game kernel . This includes the accounting information for the game machine and game play. There are hard meters counters and soft meters. The soft meters may be stored in non volatile storage such as non volatile battery backed RAM to prevent loss. Further a backup copy of the soft meters may be stored in a separate non volatile storage such as EEPROM. In one embodiment meter manager receives its initialization data for the meters during startup from configuration manager . While running the cash in and cash out managers call the meter manager s update functions to update the meters. Meter manager will on occasion create backup copies of the soft meters by storing the soft meters readings in EEPROM. This is accomplished by calling and using EEPROM manager .

In accordance with still other embodiments progressive manager manages progressive games playable from the game machine. Event manager is generic like log manager and is used to manage various gaming machine events. Focus manager correlates which process has control of various focus items. Tilt manager is an object that receives a list of errors if any from configuration manager at initialization and during game play from processes managers drivers and the like that may generate errors. A random number generator manager is provided to allow easy programming access to a random number generator RNG as an RNG is required in virtually all casino style gambling games. The RNG manager includes the capability of using multiple seeds.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a credit manager object not shown manages the current state of credits cash value or cash equivalent in the game machine including any available winnings and further provides denomination conversion services. Cash out manager has the responsibility of configuring and managing monetary output devices. During initialization cash out manager using data from configuration manager sets the cash out devices correctly and selects any selectable cash out denominations. During play a game application may post a cash out event through the event manager the same way all events are handled and using a callback posted by cash out manager and cash out manager is informed of the event. Cash out manager updates the credit object updates its state in non volatile memory and sends an appropriate control message to the device manager that corresponds to the dispensing device. As the device dispenses dispensable media there typically are event messages being sent back and forth between the device and cash out manager until the dispensing finishes. After the dispensing finishes the cash out manager having updated the credit manager and any other game state such as some associated with meter manager that needs to be updated for this set of actions sends a cash out completion event to event manager and to the game application thereby. The cash in manager functions similarly to cash out manager addressing requirements for controlling interfacing and managing actions associated with cashing in events cash in devices and associated meters and crediting.

In a further example in accordance with one or more embodiments I O server may write data to the gaming machine EEPROM memory which is located in the gaming machine cabinet and holds meter storage that must be kept even in the event of power failure. Game manager calls the I O library functions to write data to the EEPROM. The I O server receives the request and starts a low priority EEPROM thread within I O server to write the data. This thread uses a sequence of an 8 bit command and data writes to the EEPROM device to write the appropriate data in the proper location within the device. Any errors detected are sent as IPC messages to game manager . Preferably all of this processing is asynchronously performed.

In accordance with one embodiment button module within I O server polls or is sent the state of buttons every two milliseconds. These inputs are debounced by keeping a history of input samples. Certain sequences of samples are required to detect a button was pressed in which case the I O server sends an inter process communication event to game manager that a button was pressed or released. In some embodiments the gaming machine may have intelligently distributed I O which debounces the buttons in which case button module may be able to communicate with the remote intelligent button processor to retrieve the button events and simply relay them to game manager via IPC messages. In still another embodiment the I O library may be used for pay out requests from the game application. For example hopper module must start the hopper motor constantly monitoring the coin sensing lines of the hopper debounce them and send an IPC message to the game manager when each coin is paid.

Further details including disclosure of lower level fault handling and or processing are included in U.S. Pat. No. 7 351 151 entitled Gaming Board Set and Gaming Kernel for Game Cabinets and provisional U.S. patent application No. 60 313 743 entitled Form Fitting Upgrade Board Set For Existing Game Cabinets filed Aug. 20 2001 said patent and provisional application are both fully incorporated herein by explicit reference.

Referring to enterprise gaming system is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments. Enterprise gaming system may include one casino or multiple locations and generally includes a network of gaming machines floor management system SMS and casino management system CMS . SMS may include load balancer network services servers player interface iVIEW content servers certificate services server floor radio dispatch receiver transmitters RDC floor transaction servers and game engines each of which may connect over network bus to gaming machines . CMS may include location tracking server WRG RTCEM server data warehouse server player tracking server biometric server analysis services server third party interface server slot accounting server floor accounting server progressives server promo control server bonus game such as Bally Live Rewards server download control server player history database configuration management server browser manager tournament engine server connecting through bus to server host and gaming machines .

The various servers and gaming machines may connect to the network with various conventional network connections such as for example USB serial parallel RS485 and Ethernet . Additional servers which may be incorporated with CMS include a responsible gaming limit server not shown advertisement server not shown and a control station server not shown where an operator or authorized personnel may select options and input new programming to adjust each of the respective servers and gaming machines . SMS may also have additional servers including a control station not shown through which authorized personnel may select options modify programming and obtain reports of the connected servers and devices and obtain reports. The various CMS and SMS servers are descriptively entitled to reflect the functional executable programming stored thereon and the nature of databases is maintained and utilized in performing their respective functions.

Gaming machines include various peripheral components that may be connected with USB serial parallel RS 485 or Ethernet devices architectures to the system components within the respective gaming machine. The GMU has a connection to the base game through a serial SAS connection. The system components in the gaming cabinet may be connected to the servers using HTTPs or G2S over Ethernet. Using CMS and or SMS servers and devices firmware media operating systems and configurations may be downloaded to the system components of respective gaming machines for upgrading or managing floor content and offerings in accordance with operator selections or automatically depending upon CMS and SMS master programming. The data and programming updates to gaming machines are authenticated using conventional techniques prior to installation on the system components.

In various embodiments any of the gaming machines may be a mechanical reel spinning slot machine video slot machine video poker machine video bingo machine keno machine or a gaming machine offering one or more of the above described games including an interactive wheel feature. Alternately gaming machines may provide a game with an accumulation style feature game as one of a set of multiple primary games selected for play by a random number generator as described above. A gaming system of the type described above also allows a plurality of games in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention to be linked under the control of a group game server not shown for cooperative or competitive play in a particular area carousel casino or between casinos located in geographically separate areas. For example one or more examples of group games under the control of a group game server are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 079 entitled Networked System and Method for Group Gaming filed on Nov. 9 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the claimed invention without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the claimed invention.

