---

title: Permanent-magnet-less machine having an enclosed air gap
abstract: A permanent magnet-less, brushless synchronous system includes a stator that generates a magnetic rotating field when sourced by an alternating current. An uncluttered rotor disposed within the magnetic rotating field is spaced apart from the stator to form an air gap relative to an axis of rotation. A stationary excitation core spaced apart from the uncluttered rotor by an axial air gap and a radial air gap substantially encloses the stationary excitation core. Some permanent magnet-less, brushless synchronous systems include stator core gaps to reduce axial flux flow. Some permanent magnet-less, brushless synchronous systems include an uncluttered rotor coupled to outer laminations. The quadrature-axis inductance may be increased in some synchronous systems. Some synchronous systems convert energy such as mechanical energy into electrical energy (e.g., a generator); other synchronous systems may convert any form of energy into mechanical energy (e.g., a motor).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08390168&OS=08390168&RS=08390168
owner: UT-Battelle, LLC
number: 08390168
owner_city: Oak Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 466 212 filed May 14 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 110 961 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 199 841 filed Nov. 20 2008 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 274 895 filed Nov. 20 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 264 120. The contents of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 466 212 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 110 961 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 199 841 U.S. application Ser. No. 12 274 895 and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 466 169 are each incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This application was made with United States government support under Contract No. DE AC05 00OR22725 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in these inventions.

This disclosure relates to electric machines and more specifically to synchronous motors and generators.

Due to advances in form and performance demand for motors is increasing. Reduced sizes and improved reliability have broadened the acceptance of electric motors to industries that include transportation aerospace robotics and healthcare.

Some motors use permanent magnets to generate torque. Because the properties of these materials may vary in time and the raw material costs may be excessive such materials may be unsuitable for some applications. In vehicles for example fuel efficiency may be compromised when a permanent magnetic motor is not actuated to drive a vehicle. The continuous fields of the permanent magnets may resist the driving torque of a vehicle and generate core losses.

A permanent magnet less brushless synchronous system includes a stator that generates a magnetic rotating field when sourced by an alternating current. An uncluttered rotor disposed within the magnetic rotating field is spaced apart from the stator to form an air gap relative to an axis of rotation. A stationary excitation core spaced apart from the uncluttered rotor by an axial air gap and a radial air gap substantially encloses the stationary excitation core. Some permanent magnet less brushless synchronous systems include stator core gaps to reduce axial flux flow. Some permanent magnet less brushless synchronous systems include an uncluttered rotor coupled to outer laminations. The quadrature axis inductance may be increased in some synchronous systems. Some synchronous systems convert energy such as mechanical energy into electrical energy e.g. a generator some synchronous systems may convert any form of energy into mechanical energy e.g. a motor .

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

A synchronous system generates high power density at a high torque to weight ratio. Without permanent magnets some of these brushless slip ring less constructions have a reduced size lower weights e.g. due to lightweight materials such as aluminum that may form the frames and less core losses. In vehicles that may use axial and radial gap motors there may be little to no core losses when the system runs free without field excitations. The high power density and driving torque of these systems may be used in other applications that have short intermediate or long core lengths. Upon performance design options the reluctance torque component may be selected to locate at about less than or greater than about a ninety degree load angle. Dynamic balances are improved when systems do not include rotating rotor windings. In these systems and others the excitation fields may be cut off to enhance safety fields may be boosted to increase or reach peak acceleration power in short time periods e.g. about eighteen seconds power factors may be optimized e.g. lowering the loading in inverter applications and efficiency maps may increase due to the adjustable fields. The synchronous systems may be mass produced and may have higher power densities and lower power costs per kilowatt than some induction systems. Some synchronous systems are highly efficient in comparison to some permanent magnet motor constructions. The systems may be operated as an alternating current machine a motor and or a generator.

The stationary excitation core may include two or more magnetically conducting discs that may include recessed ring shape like spaces for receiving the excitation conductors or coils . In a disc system the number of discs may be proportional to the available areas for the flux passing axially through the stationary excitation core. The longer the core length of a machine the greater the number of stationary discs may be used. Many types of materials may form the discs such as solid iron compressed magnetically conducting powder such as iron and other materials that provide good magnetic conduction or ferromagnetic properties. In some applications the discs are not subject to a rotating torque.

In a brushless permanent magnet less system shown in the stationary excitation core may be preformed. During assembly the coils may be laid or positioned in the recessed ring shape space on the disks. Connections to the coils may be integrated into or may be a unitary part of the discs. Coil terminal pins may be inserted into a conducting socket connection pin and socket shown as that passes through the disc thickness through an insulator such as one or more insulation tubes. A first and last disc may have an optional radial groove formed or cut into the side surfaces of the discs that may bring the excitation leads to a stationary hollow channel or coolant shaft .

An uncluttered rotor positioned between the pair of cylindrical stator portions may include two or more uncluttered rotor pole stacks and that are separated by axially centered annulet dielectrics or cylindrical air gaps for example and spacer stacks . The uncluttered rotor may be comprised of many materials including solid or compressed powder laminations punchings of magnetically conducting materials etc. The construction and material may further include other structures and forms including those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 270 203 7 134 180 6 977 454 and 6 891 301 that are incorporated by reference. In some systems a hollow center channel may receive a stationary hollow center shaft that may act as an excitation lead egress cooling channel or tube that has a coolant inlet and outlet and .

The non conducting or magnetically isolated channels materials punchings and or kidney like channels and short radial channels or dielectrics shown in may be nearly identical and almost equally spaced about the annulus of the north polarity and south polarity rotor stacks and and respectively. Between the north polarity and south polarity stacks and the channels materials punchings and or kidney like and radial shapes hereinafter referred to as the channel or channels are rotated about one hundred and eighty electrical degrees apart.

When formed through a fabrication process the magnetically isolated sections of the rotor stacks may be formed by the punched out or preformed channels. The different sections of the channels may be mechanically coupled to other layers or rotor pieces by thin bridges . Multiple thin bridges may be used in high speed applications. In some systems the channels may partially enclose a dielectric non magnetic materials or a cooling e.g. coolant media.

During the rotor assembly described in the channels of a stack sharing a common inner polarity may be positioned adjacent to a spacer stack separated by an axially centered annulet dielectric or air gap at and . A second stack having an opposite inner polarity may be disposed adjacent to an opposite side of the spacer stack in a rotated position. In some synchronous systems the second stack is rotated about 180 electric degrees from the coordinate position of the first stack at . A second axially centered annulet dielectric or air gap may be partially enclosed by the opposite outer surface of spacer stack and an outer surface of the second stack. As more stacks are added the same process may be repeated at .

A mechanical support configured as a frame covers and protects the stationary excitation core uncluttered rotor and stator while supporting the coolant shaft and a rotatable shaft . The frame may support the rotatable shaft directly or intermediately through annular guides such as bearings that reduce friction. Stationary annular guides may support the stationary hollow channel or coolant shaft that supports the stationary excitation core . The frame may be made of a non magnetic material as it may serve a mechanical non magnetic function.

The stationary excitation core may comprise one two or more excitation coil s or conductors. A stationary coil of may comprise toroidal like or ring like elements formed by rotating a closed loop e.g. like an ellipse circle or irregular curve about an axis. The stationary coil wraps around the excitation core near its perimeter adjacent to the axial air gap .

The distribution of rotor flux to the stator in may not be evenly distributed along the length of the stator core. The flux path is longer shown by the continuous line of the flux loops for the flux flowing from the stationary excitation core to the stator than the flux path shown by the discontinuous line of the flux loops from the stator to the stationary excitation core In those synchronous system in which the stator comprises stacks of laminations a dielectric gap or channel between a proximal and a distal end of the stator may minimize or block the unevenness of some axial flux flows. In some synchronous systems the dielectric gap or channel may pass entirely or partially through the stator . In these and other systems the channel or gap may be positioned at a substantially central position within the stator core between the proximal and the distal ends. In a grove or stator core gap is formed or cut into the stator for each stationary coil of the excitation core . The groove or stator core gap reduces core losses in the stator due to the uneven flux density distribution in the axial direction of the stator .

To reduce core losses on the surfaces of a solid uncluttered rotor an out ring of laminations may couple the perimeter of the uncluttered rotor . In an eight pole machine a solid e.g. forged core may couple the laminations shown in . Each annulus like shaped lamination may be made of silicon steel and include multiple narrow bridges of a width dimensioned to maintain the integrity of the lamination during assembly or handling. In some synchronous systems the dimensions of the narrow bridges may be sized to counter the effect of centrifugal force.

To reduce or eliminate the flux leakages that may impede system performance an outer lamination stack may comprise separate multi piece lamination stacks that couple the solid core that is partially shown by the hatched area in . The multi piece laminations may slide on the solid rotor pole portions the uncluttered rotor is partially shown in cross section that may be retained like a keyway or a tongue and groove like engagement. In the uncluttered rotor does not include any bridges in this alternative system.

To block the axial path through the stator the groove or stator core gap shown in may be filled or enclosed by a non magnetic conductor. The non magnetic conductor or insulation may comprise many materials since the non magnetic conductor is not subject to mechanical or centrifugal force in some applications. Other systems rely only on the length and or depth of the separation to block the core loses that may be caused by the non uniformly distributed flux.

Other alternate systems and methods may include combinations of some or all of the structure and functions described above incorporated by reference or shown in one or more or each of the figures. These systems or methods are formed from any combination of structure and function described or illustrated. Some alternative systems or devices interface structures that transport person or things. The system may convert one form of energy into another e.g. convert a form of energy such as electric energy into mechanical power and or mechanical power into other forms of energy such as electric energy .

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

