---

title: Collimated beam channel with four lens optical surfaces
abstract: An optical system and method disclosed include a first lens component and a second lens component within the receive path or the transmit path. The first lens component includes at least two aspheric surfaces that oppose one another and generate a collimated beam channel. The second lens component generates a converging beam and magnifies the converging beam with a magnification factor that is different from a magnification factor in the other path, either the receive path or the transmit path. The receive path and the transmit path include symmetrical lengths and asymmetrical magnification factors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08917997&OS=08917997&RS=08917997
owner: Volex PLC
number: 08917997
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20121005
---
The subject application relates to optical systems forming a collimated beam channel and in particular a collimated beam channel having lenses with at least four optical surfaces.

Advances in technology have made communication using electromagnetic waves are the most reliable and fastest ways of communicating information between points. In general electromagnetic communication systems generate information at a source e.g. transmitter . Information is transmit as a signal through a channel such as free space in radio applications electronic lines in telephone and internet applications or optic fibers in fiber optic applications. During transmission a channel propagating information usually induces loss in a signal and or distorts the signal. Likewise various other mechanics may introduce noise in a signal. A signal is typically received by a receiver which can utilize and or decode the signal.

An optic engine or transmitter utilizes a laser diode LD or light emitting diode LED to encode data through modulation such as amplitude modulation AM frequency modulation FM and digital modulation. LD and LED sources commonly generate signals with wavelengths in a range from 660 nanometers nm to 1 550 nm. Encoded data is propagated through an optic fiber e.g. silicon . Optic fibers couple to an optical receiver which detects amplifies and decodes demodulates the encoded data.

The above described deficiencies are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects disclosed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of the aspects disclosed. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are disclosed for an optical system. An exemplary system comprises an optical transmitter component configured for converting a message having a first format into a second different format for a transmission of the message. An optical receiver component is configured for receiving the message in the second different format. An information channel component is configured for carrying the message in the second different format along a guided pathway having a receive channel and a transmit channel. A first lens component is configured for generating a collimated beam along an optical axis and a second lens component is configured for directing and magnifying the collimated beam with an asymmetrical magnification factor with respect to the receive channel and the transmit channel.

In another non limiting embodiment a system is disclosed having a collimated beam channel configured for optically coupling a beam source to a fiber optic guided pathway. The collimated beam channel comprises a first optical lens component configured for receiving an optical beam from the beam source and generating a collimated beam along an optical axis. The first optical lens component includes a first aspheric surface configured for receiving the optical beam and a second aspheric surface opposite to and transverse to the first aspheric surface. The collimated beam channel includes a second optical lens component configured for receiving the collimated beam at a third convex surface and magnifying the received collimated beam with a fourth curved surface towards an end face of the fiber optic guided pathway.

In yet another non limiting embodiment an exemplary method for optically communicating a light beam comprises transmitting via a beam source component the optical beam along an optical axis of a transmit path. The optical beam is transmitted at a first lens component having a first aspheric surface and a second aspheric surface opposing the first aspheric surface into a collimated beam. The collimated beam is with a second lens component downstream of the first lens component at a third convergent surface. The collimated beam is transformed into a converging beam and the converging beam is magnified along a receive path with a fourth verging surface that is opposite to the third convergent surface of the second lens component.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments and examples are described below with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details in the form of examples are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however that these specific details are not necessary to the practice of such embodiments. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate description of the various embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon such as with a module for example. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

In consideration of the above described deficiencies among other things various embodiments are provided for optical systems and optical components to process optical signals or messages in a collimated beam channel. An optical system for example includes a laser source beam source and or optical source that can provide a wave in which information is transmitted. In an example embodiment an optical transmitter component is configured to convert a message having a first format e.g. an electronic format into a second different format e.g. an optical format for a message transmission. An information channel component is configured to carry the message in the second different format along a guided pathway e.g. a fiber optic cable or the like . The optical system has a receive channel and a transmit channel that includes a collimated beam respectively. A first lens component of the optical system is configured to generate the collimated beam along an optical axis. A second lens component is located along the optical axis downstream of the optical source and the first lens.

The first lens component includes a first lens having a first surface and a second surface that is opposite to and transposed along the first surface. The first surface and the second surface of the lens represent an aspheric surface respectively in which surface profiles are not portions of a sphere or cylinder and are operable to reduce or eliminate spherical aberration as well as reduce other optical aberrations. The second lens component includes at least two surfaces configured to direct and magnify the collimated beam with an asymmetrical magnification factor with respect to the receive channel and the transmit channel of the optical system.

Referring initially to illustrated is an optical system for communication with an optical beam in accordance with various embodiments in this disclosure. System can include a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory examples of which can be found with reference to . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components shown and described in connection with and as well as other figures disclosed herein. System is one example architecture of an optical system in which the components of the system can be combined and or operate externally to one another in different architectures. For example the system includes a transmitter component an information channel component and a receiver component in which any number of the components can be separate and or combined as one component such as an optical transceiver component that includes at least the transmitter component and the receiver component .

The transmitter component of the system includes a modulator component an optical or carrier source component and a channel coupler component . The transmitter component operates as an optical transmitter that converts messages inputted into one format e.g. an electronic format into a different format e.g. an optical format . The modulator component converts a message into a proper format e.g. analog digital for transmission in the system e.g. analog digital and is further configured to impress the message onto a wave e.g. an optical wave . The source component generates the carrier wave on which the information from the modulator component is transmitted e.g. in an optical wave format which can be generated from an optical oscillator not shown such as an LD or LED for example. The channel coupler operates to feed power into the information guide such as an optical cable. The channel coupler operates to direct an optical beam toward the information guide by generating a collimated beam channel onto an end surface for example. The transmitter component interfaces with an information guide component that includes a guided information pathway such as an optical fiber or other functioning guide for the optical transmission of data over a defined distance.

The information guide includes a transmit channel Tx a receive channel Rx one or more optical amplifiers and or repeaters and and is configured to communicatively couple the transmitter component with the receiver component . The optical amplifiers of the information guide operate to boost power levels and ensure sufficient power to the receiver component . Optical repeaters regenerators can also convert weak and distorted optical signals to electrical ones and then regenerate the original digital pulse trains for further transmission in which any of the components and or can operate as an optical amplifier and or an optical repeater based on design of the information guide and the system architecture.

The receiver component includes a detector an amplifier and a processing unit e.g. a processor . The detector operates to convert the optical into an electronic current or another different format for example. The detector can include a photo detector that demodulates the optical signal received through the receive channel Rx and the information guide . The amplifier can operate to amplify or remove any bias of the data in electrical form for processing at the processing unit which can further amplify and or filter the current for quality communications.

In one embodiment the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx are of equal lengths and or of equal distances with respect to one another. An advantage of having substantially similar lengths in the Rx channel and the Tx channel is that a reference is provided for balancing tolerances in both channels however as a result tolerances in signal transmission can become an increasingly limiting factor in the information guide such as with fiber optics supporting multiple modes. For example the information guide can include a plurality of modes in which can present a difficulty involving the difference between the transverse radiation pattern of the source and the mode patterns of waveguide modes in the information channel . Exact coupling with the waveguide can be difficult unless the optic beam patterns are substantially identical or in other words substantially matched. For example rays associated with different modes have each mode excited by a plane wave incident on a slab therein such that the internal angle of the beam is a desired value to guide the beam. As such coupling the optical beam from the source to the information guide component and also to the detector is provided with symmetrical channels in length or in distance with respect to space.

In addition substantially symmetrical distances in the Rx channel and the Tx channel can make tolerances in the spot size difficult or in other words the size of the optical beam onto the detector can become tightly constrained without changing the length of the receive channel. In addition magnification factors of the channels are also substantially equal when both second lenses have planar fourth surfaces. In another embodiment the receive channel can include an output coupler which is described further below that includes an additional fourth lens surface to substantially increase tolerance levels of the spot size without altering a thickness of the lens and maintaining a substantially equal distance of the Rx and Tx channels.

Referring now to illustrated is another exemplary system in accordance with various embodiments described in this disclosure. The system is an optical system that is similar to the system described above and with the channel coupler included within the transmit channel . Additionally the system further includes an output coupler as part of the receive channel Rx.

The output coupler of the optic system operates to direct light emerging from the fiber onto the light detector . For example the output coupler radiates the optical transmission through the information channel in an identical or substantially equal pattern as the acceptance cone received at the fiber end face of the information channel . The output coupler can for example include similar or the same component as with the channel coupler .

In one embodiment the Tx channels and the Rx channels include a plurality of lenses for focusing and or directing the optical beam. The channel coupler includes a first lens component and a second lens component for coupling the optical beam along an optical axis . The first lens component comprises a first lens that has at least two surfaces that are opposite to and transverse to one another for manipulating the optical beam along the optical axis in a collimated beam pattern. The second lens component is located downstream of the first lens component. Although the second lens component is illustrated along the optical axis for ease of illustration other configurations are also envisioned herein in which the collimated beam generated along the optical axis by the first lens component can be directed in a collimated beam pattern by being diverted shifted and or angled along a different axis via additional or intermediate optical components not shown to the second lens component .

In another embodiment the second lens component includes a third surface and a fourth surface that oppose one another along the optical axis . The third surface is configured to receive the collimated beam downstream of the first lens component . The second lens component receives the collimated beam at the third surface and is configured to converge the beam inward toward and traversing the optical axis .

The second lens component operates with the fourth surface as a magnifying surface to magnify the optical beam that is being converged to generate a small concentrated spot size onto the fiber end face for the transmission of optical power. The fourth surface is opposite to the third surface and faces the optical end face. The fourth surface includes a curvature that enables the second lens component to operate as tunable magnifying component that converges a collimated beam in a collimated beam channel and alters the magnification selectively differently in one channel Rx Tx with respect to the other channel Rx Tx .

Referring to illustrates an example system with optical components in accordance with various embodiments described. The system includes similar optical components as discussed above with the transmitter component the carrier coupler the information channel component the output coupler and the receiver component .

The carrier coupler and the output coupler respectively comprise the transmit channel Tx and the receive channel Rx. The transmit channel Tx of the carrier coupler includes the first lens component and the second lens component . The receive channel Rx of the output coupler also includes a first lens component of the receive channel Rx and a second lens component of the receive channel Rx.

In one embodiment the surfaces of the second lens component of the receive channel Rx and the second lens component of the transmit channel Tx differ while parameters of the components and pathways in the transmit channel Tx and the receive channel Rx are substantially equal identical and or symmetrical. For example the first lens component of the receive chancel Rx includes at least two opposing lens surfaces along the optical beam path. The surface is a convergent lens surface that converges a collimated beam towards the optical axis and onto the receiver component e.g. a photo detector . The surface of the second lens component of the receive channel Rx includes a curved surface that alters a magnification of the converging beam in the receive channel Rx from a magnification of the optical beam in the transmit channel Tx.

For example the receive channel Rx or receive path includes the first lens component that has a first lens surface and a second lens surface which are aspheric in curvature and oppositely transposed to one another. The second lens component includes a third surface and a fourth surface that opposes the third surface . The fourth surface is curved and operates as a verging surface that verges the converged collimated beam according to a magnification factor that is different than a magnification of the optical beam emanating from the transmit component and onto the information channel component . The third surface of the second lens component operates as a convergent or convex surface that operates to direct the collimated beam channel towards the optical axis and onto a small spot size area of the receive component .

In another embodiment the carrier channel component included in the transmit channel Tx or transmit path comprises the first lens component and the second lens component . The first lens component is similar in structure and function as the first lens component of the receive path Rx. For example the first lens component includes a first surface and a second surface of the transmit path Tx. The first surface and the second surface comprise aspheric surfaces that operate to generate a collimated beam within the transmit channel Tx and toward the front end face of the information channel downstream of the first and second lens .

The second lens component of the transmit channel Tx comprises a plano convex lens. For example the second lens component includes a first surface or in other words a third surface relative to the first lens component within the transmit channel Tx. The third surface comprise convex or converging surface that focuses the collimated beam towards a center of the optical axis and towards a front end face of the information channel in which the front end face is a polished face configured to receive the optical beam. The second lens component further includes a fourth surface that is a plano surface for passing the optical beam through without further alteration or incidence.

Each of the transmit Tx and receive channels Rx include a magnification factor of the optical beam that is asymmetrical with respect to one another in which the asymmetry is controlled according to the curvature of the fourth surface of the second lens component of the receive channel. Although the control of the magnification factor is within the receive channel this is an illustrative example and the control by the fourth surface could be reversed so that the second lens component of the transmit channel Tx and the second lens component of the receive channel Rx are switched. This alternative would provide a change in a magnification factor of the optical beam through the transmit channel to vary with respect to the receive channel Rx having a plano convex lens rather than a second lens with a curved fourth surface facing the receiver component . Additionally the additional vergence and or magnification of the system provided by the fourth surface could be added or changed on any or a combination thereof of the surfaces of the lenses first lens components or second lens components .

Although both the second lens component of the transmit channel Tx and the second lens component of the receive channel Rx could have a fourth curved surface an added advantage is provided with one of the second lenses being plano in nature at the fourth surface of the receive channel Rx or the fourth surface of the transmit channel Tx and the other curved for further magnification control. For example the transmit channel Tx and the receive channel Rx are able to be configured with equal or substantially equal distances in space which enables tolerances in the control of the optical beam size to be tightly coupled. However a magnification factor between the two channels is asymmetrical as generated by the fourth surface of the second lens component as illustrated in .

Referring to illustrates a collimated beam channel of an optical system in accordance with various embodiments described herein. The optical system includes the output coupler including the first lens component and the second lens component of the receive channel Rx. The output coupler includes a second lens component having a fourth surface that generates an asymmetrical magnification of the collimated beam with respect to the transmit path Tx.

The output coupler includes a source of image height hthat is a focal length or distance ffrom the first lens component of the receive channel Rx that is configured for generating the collimated beam . The angle represents the half angle of radiation of the optical beam with respect to the optical axis through a center point. The first lens component provides the first surface and a second surface in which the first surface is an aspheric surface that collects the optical beam radiating at the angle .

The first lens component is configured as a condenser lens that condenses the optical beam and generates the collimated beam which can vary in degrees of collimation quality depending upon lens aberrations and regardless of the amount of light collected by the first surface e.g. zero to approximately nine degrees or greater . The collimated beam represents an optical beam having rays that are parallel and diverge slower while propagating along the optical axis or with respect to distance. The collimated beams is received at the third lens surface that is a convergent or convex surface and operates as a secondary focusing lens for reimaging the source image.

In one example the angle and the images height is invariant as such the image size hfor the condenser focusing lenses of the optical system could ideally be demonstrated by h h h f f in which f fprovides a magnification factor. The magnification factor f frepresents an ideal magnification factor of the second lens component with the fourth surface being planar rather than curved as illustrated with the second lens component in the previous . Thus the image hin the receive channel Rx of the output coupler is magnified by a magnification factor that is further provided by the fourth surface as a curved or a verging surface and operates to change or tune the magnification from f for from a different magnification than the transmit channel Tx.

Referring to illustrates an optical system having the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx. Similar to the optical systems described above the receive channel Rx includes the output coupler and the transmit channel Tx includes the carrier coupler . Here the second lens component with secondary lens of the receive channel Rx has a curved fourth surface that is planar and allows the optical beam to pass through without additional magnification. The second lens component of the transmit channel Tx however has a fourth surface that is curved or verges to provide a different magnification of the converged collimated beam than the receive channel Rx. In an alternative or additional embodiment the fourth surface and the fourth surface of the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx respectively could comprise similar curvatures.

Referring to illustrates another aspect of an optical system having the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx. For example the distances from one end point to another end point e.g. hto h and hto h are equal or substantially similar. For example a receive channel Rx distance Dis equal to a transmit channel Tx distance D while the magnification factors of each channel are different or asymmetrical with respect to one another. In addition a width Wof the second lens component is equal to or substantially identical to a width Wof the second lens component . Consequently a magnification factor is different within the receive channel Rx and the transmit channel Tx without altering a thickness of the secondary lens in either channel.

While the methods or process flows described within this disclosure are illustrated in and described herein as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases.

An example methodology for implementing a method for an optic system having a collimated channel is illustrated in . Reference is made to the figures described above for ease of description. However the method is not limited to any particular embodiment or example provided within this disclosure.

At the method begins with communicating an optical beam along an optical axis. At the optical beam is transformed into a collimated beam such that rays of the optical beam are substantially parallel to one another. At the method further includes receiving the collimated beam at a second lens component. At the collimated beam is transformed into a converging beam with the second lens component. At the converging beam is magnified with the second lens component.

In one embodiment transmitting the optical beam includes transmitting the beam along a transmit path transmit channel an equal distance as a receive path receive channel . In addition the converging beam is magnified asymmetrically along the receive path with respect to the transmit path. For example a four lens surface of the second lens component can differ between the receive path and the transmit path of the optical beam such that a magnification factor of the receive path is different from a magnification factor of the transmit path. For example the receive path and the transmit path comprise equal distances and additionally a magnification factor of the receive path is tuneable as a multiple of a magnification factor of the transmit path. The tenability comes from an adjustment of the curvature of the fourth surface without altering a distance of the receive path and or the transmit path.

At the optical beam is transmitted from an optical source in a transmit channel. At the optical beam is collimated at a first lens component of a receive channel. At the optical beam is converged and asymmetrically magnified at a second lens component of the receive channel in which the asymmetrical magnification of the optical beam asymmetrical with respect to a different channel e.g. the transmit channel as opposed to the receive channel and or vice versa .

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various non limiting embodiments of the shared systems and methods described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various non limiting embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the shared shopping mechanisms as described for various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing object or device etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the shared shopping systems provided in accordance with various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the shared shopping systems as described in various non limiting embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. A client can be a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself.

In client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. acting as servers provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the shared shopping techniques as described herein for one or more non limiting embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network or bus is the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers with which other computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. acting as servers may also serve as clients e.g. computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to a number of various devices for employing the techniques and methods described herein. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various non limiting embodiments i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to engage on behalf of a user or set of users. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device.

Although not required non limiting embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various non limiting embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer readable storage media and communication media. Computer readable storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer readable storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may also include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data that may be communicated in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

