---

title: Seismic image enhancement
abstract: A method can include accessing seismic data; providing a wave function that defines, at least in part, a correlation window length; generating local autocorrelation functions for the seismic data using the correlation window length; performing cross-correlations between the wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross-correlation coefficient values; determining second derivatives of the local cross-correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values; and rendering the local second derivative values to a display. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09217802&OS=09217802&RS=09217802
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09217802
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application having Ser. No. 61 472 084 entitled Method System Apparatus and Computer Readable Medium for Seismic Image Enhancement filed Apr. 5 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Seismic interpretation is a process that may examine seismic data e.g. location and time or depth in an effort to identify subsurface structures such as horizons and faults. Structures may be for example faulted stratigraphic formations indicative of hydrocarbon traps or flow channels. In the field of resource extraction enhancements to seismic interpretation can allow for construction of a more accurate model which in turn may improve seismic volume analysis for purposes of resource extraction. Various techniques described herein pertain to processing of seismic data for example for analysis of such data e.g. for identifying structures in a geologic environment .

A method can include generating local autocorrelation functions for seismic data and performing cross correlations between each of the local autocorrelation functions with a wave function to provide cross correlation coefficient values where second derivative values are determined for the cross correlation coefficient values. The resulting second derivative values may be rendered to a display for purposes of analysis.

One or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to generate local autocorrelation functions for seismic data perform cross correlations between the wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross correlation coefficient values and to determine second derivatives of the local cross correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values.

A system may include one or more processors memory a network interface a display interface and processor executable instructions stored in the memory to receive seismic data via the network interface generate local autocorrelation functions for the seismic data e.g. using a correlation window length perform cross correlations between a wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross correlation coefficient values determine second derivatives of the local cross correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values and transmit signals via the display interface to render the local second derivative values to a display. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

As an example seismic image enhance SIE may be performed using seismic to simulation software. For example the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. includes various features to perform SIE e.g. with respect to a 3D seismic cube a 2D seismic line etc. . As an example it may not be necessary to re process seismic data prior to performing SIE. For example it may only be necessary to know the dominant frequency of seismic data which will be duplicated and used with an iso frequency component attribute e.g. as an input parameter .

In the PETREL framework a user may apply the iso frequency component attribute to seismic data and the parameters to obtain a value of a dominant frequency doubled in the seismic data. Such a process may provide processed seismic data in a frequency domain where to return the processed seismic data to an amplitude domain a second derivative attribute may be applied. As an example application of an iso frequency component attribute followed by application of a second derivative attribute may provide a user with more data frequency content which may in turn allow a user to identify more stratigraphic and structural features represented by the seismic data.

As an example consider 2D seismic data provided as amplitude versus time depth and position see e.g. . In such an example an iso frequency component attribute may be applied locally to the 2D seismic data using a selected frequency and cycle length where the frequency and the cycle length determine a correlation window length e.g. in units of time where the correlation window is applied locally. As to the selected frequency the value may be selected for example depending on the average frequency content of the seismic data under consideration. The iso frequency component attribute may perform autocorrelation locally on the 2D seismic data e.g. using the correlation window length to generate local autocorrelation functions with respect to time depth and position and then perform cross correlation for the selected frequency for example using a wave function e.g. a cosine function applied locally to generate local values for cross correlation coefficients see e.g. . Given the local values for cross correlation coefficients a second derivative operation may be applied to provide values for the second derivative of the cross correlation values e.g. time depth versus position where the second derivative is taken with respect to time depth see e.g. . In such an example the second derivative of the cross correlation values can yield an attribute that can be thought of e.g. and viewed as an amplitude rather than a frequency e.g. or a frequency correlation value . Thus as an example by taking the second derivative of the correlation coefficient values seismic data may be enhanced e.g. whether 2D or 3D seismic data .

As an example a process may be applied to 3D seismic data optionally to provide a horizontal slice a vertical slice or other slice through the 3D seismic data where features are enhanced by applying autocorrelation cross correlation and second derivative operations e.g. optionally successive first derivative operations .

In various examples a method can include applying a second derivative operation to cross correlation coefficient values for example to improve frequency content of seismic data which may allow a seismic interpreter to visualize features otherwise difficult to discern.

As an example an iso frequency component attribute may be applied to seismic data. The iso frequency component attribute may represent a cross correlation function of auto correlation of seismic data and a kernel function. As an example a kernel function may be a wave function such as a cosine function. Where a cosine function is provided the cross correlation may be referred to as the correlation cosine transform or cosine correlation transform CCT technique. The CCT technique may result in a frequency value as a measure of a contribution of a frequency e.g. optionally defined by a user . An intermediate result of a method that includes application of a cross correlation technique may include data showing a cross correlation coefficient of similarity between autocorrelations of seismic data and a kernel function.

Another attribute referred to as a second derivative attribute may be applied to seismic data related to the iso frequency component attribute output. Upon application of a second derivative operation seismic data may return effectively to the domain of amplitude. As a result a seismic interpreter may be able to identify certain stratigraphic and structural features represented by the seismic data. For time sampled seismic data a second derivative may be approximated using a discretized approximate form.

As an example a workflow may include input of seismic data see e.g. applying an iso frequency component operation see e.g. and applying a second derivative operation for output of a seismic enhanced image SIE see e.g. .

As an example a method for performing SIE may include providing input where the input includes a predetermined volume containing one or more structural and stratigraphic features. The input may further include a plurality of 2D or 3D seismic traces that include a plurality of reflectivity features including frequency content acquisition without a predetermined specific processing. In such an example the plurality of seismic traces may represent elastic characteristics of a geological feature. A method may further include applying a spectral decomposition thereby producing a second plurality of seismic traces containing a plurality of autocorrelation functions with a dynamic range for example between 1 and 1. The method may also include applying a differential equation to the second plurality of seismic traces thereby producing a third plurality of seismic traces that include a second plurality of reflectivity features. The third plurality of seismic traces may represent one or more stratigraphic and structural features that may be interpreted using a seismic interpreter.

As an example a method can perform seismic image enhancement SIE using a first pass that converts seismic data in an amplitude domain to a frequency domain e.g. using an iso frequency component operation . Such a first pass may be a seismic decomposition operation see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 614 which is incorporated by reference herein . A second pass operation for example related to a 3D seismic cube or a 2D seismic line in the frequency domain may be applied in the form of a second derivative operation. Such a second pass operation may convert information in the frequency domain effectively to the domain of amplitude e.g. with higher frequency content .

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield see e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. The surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. The surface unit may be capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. The surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produce data output which may then be stored transmitted etc.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. As shown in the example of a sensor S may be positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at the rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

The drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown generally referenced near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly can include capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with the surface unit . The bottom hole assembly further includes drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The bottom hole assembly may include a communication subassembly that communicates with the surface unit . The communication subassembly is adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electro magnetic telemetry or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include for example a transmitter that generates a signal such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed such as wired drill pipe electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.

Typically the wellbore is drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan typically sets forth equipment pressures trajectories and or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However as information is gathered the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally as drilling or other operations are performed the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected.

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by the surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

The surface unit may include a transceiver to allow communications between the surface unit and various portions of the oilfield or other locations. The surface unit may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at the oilfield . The surface unit may then send command signals to the oilfield in response to data received. The surface unit may receive commands via the transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner the oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. Such a technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. Such adjustments may be made for example automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

The wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example the geophones and the computer . of the seismic truck .. The wireline tool . may also provide data to the surface unit . The surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce the data output that may be stored transmitted etc. The wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in the wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the field operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about the oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in the production tool . or associated equipment such as the Christmas tree the gathering network the surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While the examples of through . illustrate some tools used to measure properties of an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as gas fields mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The field configurations of the examples of through . are intended to provide a brief description of an example of a field usable with oilfield application frameworks. Part or all of the oilfield may be on land water and or sea. Also while a single field measured at a single location is depicted oilfield applications may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

In the data plots . . and . are examples of static data plots that may be generated by the data acquisition tools . . . and . respectively. The static data plot . is an example of a seismic two way response time TWT . The static plot . is an example of a core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The static data plot . is an example of a logging trace. A production decline curve or graph . is an example of a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information and or other measurement data and other parameters of interest.

In the subterranean structure has a plurality of geological formations or layers. As shown the several formations or layers include a shale layer . a carbonate layer . a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault extends through the layers . and .. The static data acquisition tools may be adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted in it will be appreciated that the oilfield may contain a variety of geological structures and or formations. In some locations typically below the water line fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and or its geological features. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations in the oilfield it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more location across one or more oilfields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

Data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may be processed and or evaluated. As an example seismic data displayed in the static data plot . from the data acquisition tool . may be analyzed by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. As an example core data shown in the static plot . and or log data from the well log . may be analyzed by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. As an example production data from the graph . may be analyzed by a reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. Data analyzed by a geologist geophysicist a reservoir engineer etc. may optionally be analyzed using one or more modeling techniques.

In the example of each of the one or more wellsites includes equipment that forms a respective wellbore into the earth. Each of the wellbores extends through a subterranean formation which includes various layers and reservoirs . Such reservoirs may contain fluids such as hydrocarbons e.g. in one or more phases . In the example of each of the wellsites may draw fluid from one or more of the reservoirs and pass such fluid or fluids to the processing facility for example via one or more surface networks . As an example each of the surface networks can include tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from one or more wellsites to the processing facility .

Given the various examples of . . . and various aspects of seismic data e.g. reflection data are described along with processing of such data for example to enhance data for identification of one or more features.

Seismic reflection data includes information about subsurface geology physical rock properties etc. Features may be inferred from reflected wave travel time between source and arrival at one or more receivers. As an example a two way travel time TWT may be defined by the time taken for a seismic wave to travel from a source to a boundary e.g. between layers with a different seismic velocity density and acoustic impedance where reflected energy returns to a receiver. A contrast between acoustic impedance may be referred to as a reflection coefficient which may represent an interface e.g. a boundary . Arrival of reflected seismic waves can produce systematic variations from trace to trace. Such variations may be referred to as seismic events possibly interpreted as real geological interfaces between layers with different reflection coefficients. Measuring travel time of seismic events can allow for determination of attitude and location of the geological interfaces. An interpretation process may take into account amplitude frequency phase wave shape variations etc.

Three dimensional seismic data acquisition can provide a cube of seismic data relative to a three dimensional coordinate system for example X Y and depth Z which may be time. Three dimensional seismic data may be organized in inlines e.g. according to an acquisition direction and crosslines e.g. in a direction perpendicular to an acquisition direction . Three dimensional seismic data may allow for mapping horizons and following of seismic events along at least a portion of an acquisition survey area. Such interpretations may facilitate building of a geological model e.g. optionally a reservoir model .

In three dimensional seismic data an individual seismic trace may be considered to be a seismic wavelet convolution resulting from travel of seismic energy emitted by a source through a subsurface where the seismic wavelet convolution includes reflection coefficients e.g. in series derived from properties of the subsurface e.g. density and seismic velocity of different rock layers crossed by seismic energy emitted by the source .

Various types of processing may be applied to seismic data for example consider correction filtering deconvolution etc. A deconvolution process may aim to compress wavelet shape recover high frequencies attenuate reverberations and short period multiples for example to increase vertical depth resolution of reflectors and to normalize the frequency spectrum of the seismic data being processed. A deconvolution process may uncover one or more reflection coefficients for example to form a series of reflection coefficients. As to corrections as an example a Normal Moveout NMO Correction may be applied e.g. to remove effects of source receiver offset and even out TWT . After some processing seismic traces may be stacked e.g. by positioning seismic reflections to their true subsurface depth or depths . Various processing techniques may be applied to seismic data pre stack or post stack.

After one or more processing techniques have been applied to seismic data interpretations may be made using processed seismic data noting that an interpretation process may include applying one or more additional processing techniques. As an example an additional processing technique may aim to enhance processed seismic data and be referred to as a seismic image enhancement SIE technique. An SIE technique may facilitate recognition of one or more seismic patterns e.g. features germane to potential hydrocarbon accumulations sites depositional environments structural geology etc.

An interpretation process may involve visual display of seismic data and interaction using one or more tools e.g. executable instruction modules stored in memory and executed by one or more processors . An interpretation process may consider vertical seismic sections inline and crossline directions horizontal seismic sections called horizontal time slices etc. Seismic data may optionally be interpreted with other data such as well log data. An interpretation process may include associating seismic reflectors to boundaries of known lithological layers. Features such as faults and seismic reflectors e.g. horizons may be interpreted for example in a travel time domain in an amplitude domain e.g. as to amplitude content . An interpretation process may include identifying reducing etc. a number of mis ties e.g. mismatches between seismic data and well log data crossing of seismic lines and mismatch of seismic reflectors etc. .

An interpretation process may include loading seismic data e.g. from a data store optionally via a network connection . Seismic data may be formatted according to the SEG Y format standard Society of Exploration Geophysicists the ZGY format standard e.g. a bricked format or another format. Seismic data may optionally be loaded for example according to a number of traces.

An interpretation process may include determining one or more seismic attributes. A seismic attribute may be considered for example a way to describe quantify etc. characteristic content of seismic data. As an example a quantified characteristic may be computed measured etc. from seismic data. A seismic attribute may be a rate of change of a quantity or quantities with respect to time space or both time and space. As an example a seismic attribute may provide for examination of seismic data in an amplitude domain in a time domain or in another manner.

An interpretation framework may include modules to determine one or more seismic attributes. Seismic attributes may optionally be classified for example as volume attributes or surface attributes. As an example a volume attribute may be an attribute computed from a seismic cube and may result in a new seismic cube that includes information pertaining to the volume attribute. As an example a surface attribute may be a value associated with a surface of a seismic cube that includes information pertaining to a volume attribute.

Seismic attributes may be derived from seismic wavelet components. As an example amplitude content in seismic data may provide for determining one or more physical characteristics about a subsurface e.g. acoustic impedance reflection coefficients velocities absorption effects . As an example phase content in seismic data may provide for determination of shape and geometry of reflectors e.g. for interpretation of seismic stratigraphy and depositional regimes . As an example frequency content in seismic data may provide for determination of stratigraphic events fault interpretation due to absorption effects forecast of reservoir properties interpretation of additional geologic layering e.g. combine with amplitude content etc.

A seismic interpretation may be performed using displayable information. For example information may be rendered to a display device a projection device a printing device etc. As an example one or more color schemes may be referenced for displayable information for example to enhance visual examination of displayable information. As an example a color scheme may include a palette a range etc. A look up table LUT or other data structure function e.g. linear or non linear etc. may allow for mapping of values associated with one or more seismic attributes to colors e.g. RGB YCbCr etc. . Where the human eye will be used or is used for viewing displayable information a color scheme may be selected to enhance interpretation e.g. distinguishing features of displayable information .

A module for determining one or more seismic attributes may include one or more parameters. As an example a module may include one or more parameters that may be set via a graphic user interface a specification file etc. In such an example an interpreter may wish to examine a seismic attribute for seismic data using one or more values of a parameter. As an example such a module may provide a default value and a field graphical control etc. that allows for input of a value.

One or more seismic attributes may pertain to seismic signal processing of seismic data. Such processing may act on frequency amplitude or other aspects of seismic data. As an example seismic signal processing may operate on a seismic trace which may be provided in an amplitude domain. In an amplitude domain a seismic trace may be represented as a function with respect to time e.g. f t . For example in a two dimensional plot the abscissa may correspond to time and the ordinate may correspond to amplitude.

For a seismic trace in an amplitude domain represented by f t a first derivative with respect to time may be represented by df t dt or in a discretized form for a digitized seismic trace by 

A first derivative seismic attribute may include the foregoing equation e.g. or other approximation equation and be applied to one or more seismic traces. Such an attribute may be considered as phase shifting by 90 the one or more seismic traces. Such an attribute may provide information germane to quality of signal consistency e.g. positive or negative peaks may produce zero crossings and improve correlation between seismic data and lithology indicative well log data.

Where acquired seismic data has been processed to provide approximately zero phase seismic data a comparison may be made between such data and first derivative seismic attribute information e.g. 90 phase shifted . A visual comparison may provide for observation of increased vertical resolution and sharpness of seismic reflectors which for example may facilitate thin bed interpretation. A first derivate seismic attribute volumes e.g. calculated from zero phase seismic data may enhance interpretability and for example may be used as seismic conditioning for a picking tool for seismic reflector interpretation.

For a seismic trace in an amplitude domain represented by f t a second derivative with respect to time may be represented by df t dtor in a discretized form for a digitized seismic trace by 

As an example a second derivative seismic attribute may be implemented in one or more manners. For example consider applying a first derivative seismic attribute twice to provide two 90 phase shifts for a total phase shift of 180 . A phase shift of 180 can provide a second derivative seismic attribute that includes traces of inverted polarity such that peaks become troughs and troughs become peaks.

As to frequency a dominant frequency seismic attribute may be provided. As an example a dominant frequency seismic attribute may leverage one or more other seismic attributes. For example where an instantaneous frequency seismic attribute and an instantaneous bandwidth attribute are provided a dominant frequency seismic attribute may sum a square of instantaneous frequency with the square of instantaneous bandwidth and determine a square root of the sum to represent a root mean square RMS frequency of the amplitude spectrum.

A seismic attribute may pertain to stratigraphic features in seismic data and for example facilitate identification of stratigraphic sequences lateral and vertical variations of lithologies structural orientation measurements frequency decomposition facies distribution etc.

As an example consider an iso frequency seismic attribute. Such an attribute may include use of an iso frequency component to generate a volume attribute through a seismic decomposition technique.

As to a seismic decomposition technique consider as an example a spectral decomposition performed locally that includes generating an autocorrelation function of seismic data on a time window. In such an example the autocorrelation function tends to be insensitive to phase content of the seismic data thus aligning the seismic energy at zero lag. A subsequent process can include performing a cross correlation between a wave function such as a cosine wave function correlation cosine transform CCT e.g. with a defined number of cycles and the generated autocorrelation function where the cross correlation determines numeric similarity of the autocorrelation function and the wave function.

In the above equation G k and H k are signals being correlated for example they may be windowed seismic data to generate an autocorrelation function or a cosine function and a generated autocorrelation function.

Output of a CCT technique may provide a correlation coefficient that measures the correlation between a known cosine wave signature of a specific frequency and the autocorrelation seismic data. An iso frequency seismic attribute three dimensional cube may be scaled for example between 1 to 1 where 0 indicates an uncorrelated function where 1 indicates identical signals and where 1 indicates identical signals but inverted.

As to parameters a cosine frequency parameter and a number of cycles parameter may be provided. Such parameters may define a correlation window length for extraction of the iso frequency seismic attribute. For example a correlation window length may depend on a relative frequency of a cosine function and a frequency content of seismic data. While a cosine function is mentioned e.g. or cosine wave function one or more other types of functions may be used for example one or more other types of wave functions. In a cross correlation process a function may be a kernel function.

As to windowed seismic data a short window tends to avoid focusing of correlation energy for example to facilitate identification of anomalies. As to a long window it may facilitate identification of local geologic effects e.g. and not tuning effects .

As an example a module may provide an option to perform spectral normalization for example a spectral whitening that may act to remove a signature of a seismic wavelet e.g. as associated with a seismic energy source .

As an example an iso frequency seismic attribute may be applied to seismic data for example to reveal subtle variations in lithology e.g. which may indicate stratigraphic traps for hydrocarbons etc. .

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. Thus such instructions may be referred to as executable instructions e.g. computer executable processor executable etc. . While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method .

In the example of the method may access seismic data e.g. 2D 3D etc. in an amplitude domain for example renderable as amplitude in terms of intensity color etc. for time or depth and position e.g. along a line orthogonal to the time or depth dimension . In such an example a selected frequency and cycle length for a wave function such as a cosine function may determine a correlation window length for example in seconds or depth units. The correlation window length may be applied locally to the seismic data for purposes of generating local autocorrelation functions. Given the local autocorrelation functions a cross correlation technique may be applied locally using the wave function to provide output in the form of values of cross correlation coefficients with respect to time or depth and position. Such values may range for example from about 1 to about 1 depending on how the local autocorrelation functions cross correlate with the wave function. Given such a matrix an approximation for a second derivative may be applied for example along the time or depth dimension e.g. a second derivative of values of cross correlation coefficients with respect to time or depth . The resulting second derivatives may be provided in a matrix form for example as second derivative values versus time or depth and position. Such information may be rendered to a display and appear in a manner akin to amplitude domain information. In the foregoing example by taking the second derivative cross correlation information which may be considered as being in a frequency domain is effectively transformed to information akin to that of an amplitude domain . Such a process can facilitate analysis for example where an analyst seeks to identify one or more features. Where the second derivative values are rendered with respect to time or depth and position the result may be considered an image and the process an example of seismic image enhancement.

As an example a method can include accessing seismic data providing a wave function that defines at least in part a correlation window length generating local autocorrelation functions for the seismic data using the correlation window length performing cross correlations between the wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross correlation coefficient values determining second derivatives of the local cross correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values and rendering the local second derivative values to a display. In such an example the accessing seismic data may include accessing seismic data as amplitude versus time or depth and a spatial dimension. As an example a method can include rendering local second derivative values to a display as local second derivative values versus time or depth and a spatial dimension. As an example a method can include picking one or more horizons based on rendering of local second derivative values to a display.

As an example where a method includes providing a wave function such a wave function may be a cosine function for a single frequency e.g. or a sine function shifted in phase . As an example a method may include repeating where for each repetition of the method the method includes providing a wave function for a different single frequency e.g. cosine functions each of a different frequency . As an example a method can include rendering a graphical user interface to a display where the graphical user interface includes a graphical control for input of a frequency for a wave function.

As an example a method can include rendering a graphical user interface to a display where the graphical user interface includes a graphical control for selection of an attribute that effectuates at least performing cross correlations between autocorrelation functions of seismic data and a wave function e.g. specified at a single frequency . As an example a method may include rendering a graphical user interface to a display where the graphical user interface includes a graphical control for selection of an attribute that effectuates at least such performing cross correlations as well as determining second derivatives of cross correlation coefficient values.

As an example one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to access seismic data from a storage device e.g. optionally via a network receive at least one parameter to define a wave function that determines at least in part a correlation window length generate local autocorrelation functions for the seismic data using the correlation window length perform cross correlations between the wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross correlation coefficient values determine second derivatives of the local cross correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values and store the local second derivative values to a storage device. In such an example computer executable instructions may be provided to instruct a computer system to render a graphical user interface to a display for display of a selectable attribute to instruct the computer system to execute the instructions to perform cross correlations and to execute the instructions to determine second derivatives.

As an example one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computer system to receive at least one parameter such as a frequency for a wave function which may be a cosine function. As an example one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computer system to render local second derivative values to a display. In such an example the computer executable instructions may provide for rendering the second derivative values to the display using a color scheme.

As an example a system can include one or more processors memory a network interface a display interface and processor executable instructions stored in the memory to receive seismic data via the network interface generate local autocorrelation functions for the seismic data using a correlation window length perform cross correlations between a wave function and each of the local autocorrelation functions to provide local cross correlation coefficient values determine second derivatives of the local cross correlation coefficient values to provide local second derivative values and transmit signals via the display interface to render the local second derivative values to a display. In such a system the wave function may be for example a cosine function. As an example a wave function may be a wave function characterized by a single frequency.

As an example a system may include instructions to receive or access seismic data as amplitude versus time or depth and a spatial dimension. As an example a system may generate signals to render local second derivative values to a display for example where such signals provide for rendering local second derivative values versus time or depth and a spatial dimension. As an example a system may include processor executable instructions stored in memory to pick a horizon responsive to receipt of an input command during rendering of local second derivative values of cross correlation coefficient values to a display.

In the example of to analyze the seismic volume data via the transform one or more autocorrelation functions of the seismic volume data may be generated via an autocorrelation technique and one or more kernel functions may be provided. A kernel function may be a synthetic time series for example that represents a potential geologic feature of interest. A kernel function may be compared to seismic data e.g. a trace for example over a time window to determine to what extent the seismic data may be represented by the kernel function e.g. to provide information as to a seismic signature within that time window . Where multiple kernel functions are provided seismic data may be analyzed with respect to each of the multiple kernel function for example to determine which kernel function best represents aspects of the seismic data.

As an example the transform may include cross correlating functions. For example the transform may cross correlate one or more of the autocorrelation functions and one or more of the kernel functions . As an output the transform may generate volume data where spatial location e.g. geographic positions or position and time depth of a trace of seismic volume data is preserved and another dimension corresponds to sequenced peak correlation values e.g. for a cross correlation transform for a collection of kernel functions. In the example of the output of the transform is shown as a correlation spectral volume e.g. an approximate graphical representation of actual data . A correlation spectral volume can include sequenced peak correlation values e.g. in the case of cross correlation for one or more kernel functions.

In the seismic volume data represents an initial 3D seismic volume as an input. The processing technique generates one or more autocorrelation functions for example within a specified window which may be output as the autocorrelation functions e.g. a preprocessing operation . While a time window is mentioned a process may be applied optionally in parallel to generate an autocorrelation function for an entire trace noting that a full trace autocorrelation function tends to be insensitive to geology and tends to be more representative of seismic wavelet.

In the example of once the autocorrelation functions are generated the autocorrelation functions may be transformed via the transform which may apply a cross correlation technique using one or more kernel functions. In such an example the autocorrelation functions may be deemed to include unknown characteristics while the kernel functions may be deemed to include known characteristics. As an example a possible kernel function could be derived from dominant spectral frequencies of a geologic section e.g. 8 Hz 35 Hz and 65 Hz .

In the example of the seismic volume data may represent an input window of interest that includes a subset of some seismic data traces. In the example of each of the seismic traces in the seismic volume data may be subject to the autocorrelation technique . By applying the autocorrelation technique to the seismic volume data autocorrelation functions may be produced. The one or more kernel functions may include one or more seismic trace like functions that for example intend to inherently represent and correspond to one or more known geologic features of a formation. Given the autocorrelation functions and the one or more kernel functions in the example of the transform may act to compare unknown features of the autocorrelation functions and known features of the one or more kernel functions . As mentioned output of the transform may be in the form of a correlation spectral volume .

In the example of where multiple kernel functions are provided each of the kernel functions can undergo cross correlation with each of the autocorrelation functions via the transform and as a result the correlation spectral volume may be generated. As an example a first kernel function of the kernel functions may be cross correlated with each of the autocorrelation functions to thereby a first row of the correlation spectral volume .

For the seismic volume data of the example of a first of the kernel functions is cross correlated with each of the autocorrelation functions to generate a row of the correlation spectral volume . Such a process continues until the last remaining one of the kernel functions is cross correlated with each of the autocorrelation functions to generate the last remaining row of the correlation spectral volume . In such an example if a particular cross correlation coefficient value in the correlation spectral volume is a high value this indicates that the geologic characteristic associated with one particular kernel function substantially matches the geologic characteristic associated with one particular autocorrelation function and since the geologic characteristic of the one particular kernel function is a known quantity then the unknown geologic characteristic of the one particular autocorrelation function could be interpreted as substantially equal to the known geologic characteristic of the one particular kernel function. As a result the unknown geologic characteristics of one or more of the autocorrelation functions and therefore one or more of the input seismic volume data traces can be determined from the known geologic characteristics of one or more of the kernel functions by viewing the values of the cross correlation coefficients in the correlation spectral volume .

The method of may provide a horizontal slice through the seismic volume data for example a slice orthogonal to a time or depth dimension. Such a slice may facilitate analysis for example to identify one or more features such as a channel in a subterranean formation. The same slice may be analyzed for two or more frequencies and the results compared. For example a slice at 35 Hz may be compared to a slice at 65 Hz to understand frequency content in the seismic volume data .

In the example of a method akin to the method of may be applied to provide an intermediate result as a slice in a plane along time or depth and position e.g. position orthogonal to a time or depth axis . A second derivative operation may be applied to such an intermediate result to provide a final result that may facilitate picking one or more stratigraphic features.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes see e.g. attributes of the example of . Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a modeling session a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As an example various aspects of the management components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. As described herein various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. . Various technologies described herein may be optionally implemented as components in an attribute library see e.g. the attribute component .

In the field of seismic analysis aspects of a geologic environment may be defined as attributes. As an example seismic attributes can help to condition amplitude seismic data for improved structural interpretation tasks such as determining the exact location of lithological terminations and helping isolate hidden seismic stratigraphic features of a geologic environment. Attribute analysis can be quite helpful to defining a trap in exploration or delineating and characterizing a reservoir at the appraisal and development phase. An attribute generation process e.g. in the PETREL framework or other framework may rely on a library of various seismic attributes e.g. for display and use with seismic interpretation and reservoir characterization workflows . As an example generation of attributes may occur on the fly for rapid analysis while as another example attribute generation may occur as a background process e.g. a lower priority thread in a multithreaded computing environment which can allow for one or more foreground processes e.g. to enable a user to continue using various components .

Attributes can help extract value from seismic and other data for example by providing more detail on subtle lithological variations of a geologic environment e.g. an environment that includes one or more reservoirs .

As described herein one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process etc.

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

