---

title: Sharing input device data in a multiway video conference provided in an online social network
abstract: The subject technology discloses configurations for receiving input device data via an unreliable data channel from a first computing device in which the input device data includes keyboard data, mouse input data and/or touch and gesture data from the first computing device. The subject technology determines a host client computing device among one or more second computing devices in a multiway video conference for receiving the input device data. Further, the subject technology transmits the input device data via a second unreliable data channel to the determined host client computing device, where the input device data is transmitted on a separate data channel from any video or audio data transmitted to the host client computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08928727&OS=08928727&RS=08928727
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08928727
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120906
---
Video conferencing technology enables one or more users to communicate via a video conference in which each user can transmit video and audio to another user in the video conference.

The subject technology provides for sharing data. The subject technology receives input device data via an unreliable data channel from a first computing device in which the input device data includes keyboard data and mouse input data from the first computing device. The subject technology determines a host client computing device among one or more second computing devices in a multiway video conference for receiving the input device data. The subject technology transmits the input device data via a second unreliable data channel to the determined host client computing device in which the input device data is transmitted on a separate data channel from any video or audio data transmitted to the host client computing device. The subject technology receives video data via a video channel from the host client computing device in which the video data includes data of a remote user s desktop responsive to the transmitted input device data. Additionally the subject technology transmits the video data via respective video channels to the first computing device and the one or more second computing devices in the multiway video conference in which each of the respective video channels respectively correspond to the first computing device and each of the one or more second computing devices.

The subject technology provides for sharing data. The subject technology receives input device data via an unreliable data channel from a first computing device in which the input device data includes keyboard data and mouse input data from the first computing device. A host client computing device is determined among one or more second computing devices in a multiway video conference for receiving the input device data. Further the subject technology transmits the input device data via a second unreliable data channel to the determined host client computing device in which the input device data is transmitted on a separate data channel from any video or audio data transmitted to the host client computing device.

Yet another aspect of the subject technology provides a system for sharing data. The system includes one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory for executing one or more instructions by the one or more processors. The one or more instructions include instructions for receiving input device data via an unreliable data channel from a first computing device in which the input device data includes keyboard data and mouse input data from the first computing device. The instructions further include instructions for determining a host client computing device among one or more second computing devices in a multiway video conference for receiving the input device data. The instructions also include instructions for transmitting the input device data via a second unreliable data channel to the determined host client computing device in which the input device data is transmitted on a separate data channel from any video or audio data transmitted to the host client computing device. Further the instructions include instructions for receiving video data via a video channel from the host client computing device in which the video data includes data of a remote user s desktop responsive to the transmitted input device data.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it will be clear and apparent that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

A given video conferencing system can enable one or more users on different computing devices to collaborate and communicate on a real time basis via a video conference. The video conferencing system may be a server that routes data to each computing device or alternatively a peer to peer implementation in which each computing device directly communicates with another computing device. The video conference can take place over a network e.g. the Internet intranet etc. between different computing devices of different remote users. Each computing device in one example includes video and audio capabilities e.g. web camera sound card etc. for capturing video and audio data during the video conference which is then transmitted utilizing the video conferencing system. Further video conference software executing on each computing device communicates with the video conference system. In this manner the video and audio data from a first remote user s computing device can be shared with another remote user s computing device by the video conference system.

Multiway video conferences involving more than two remote users are becoming more prevalent. As used herein the phrase multiway video conference includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a video conference involving more than two remote users on respective computing devices that facilitates real time communication and collaboration between the users. In one example a user s desktop graphical user interface GUI can be shared e.g. screencast with the other users in a multiway video conference. During the multiway video conference the user may wish to grant control of the user s desktop graphical user interface desktop GUI to another user in order to troubleshoot an issue or allow the other user to manipulate interact the desktop GUI or application running on the user s desktop GUI for another purpose. However the types of interactions that can occur between the users during the multiway video conference can be limited in some instances. Typically to grant access to the desktop GUI the user and the other user are required to establish a remote desktop connection wholly separate from the video conference e.g. by utilizing specialized software rather an integrated capability of the video conferencing system which may interrupt the conversation flow and adversely affect the user experience. Further some existing solutions for providing remote desktop sharing may introduce additional latency into the video conferencing system and as a result degrade the user experience e.g. by dropping video and or audio data delaying the presentation of video and or audio or utilizing substantial amounts of computing resources etc. .

Online social networks are popular services for enabling users to interact share data and communicate with other users. Providers of online social networks may wish to extend the capabilities and functionality included in such online social networks to further enrich the user experience and provide other avenues for interacting with users. In this regard few existing online social networks fully leverage video conferencing capabilities with respect to providing multiway video conferencing between different users of the online social network. In particular multiway video conferencing provided by a given online social network may lack the capability to seamlessly provide desktop GUI sharing e.g. screencasting and for remotely controlling the desktop GUI or application running on the desktop GUI on a remote user s computing device e.g. by another user in a multiway video conference .

As described herein the phrase client computing device includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a computing device that remotely controls another computing device. Further as described herein the phrase host client computing device includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a computing device that is remotely controlled by another computing device. Additionally as described herein the phrase remoting session includes its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a session established between a client computing device and a host client computing device for remotely controlling the host client computing device.

The subject technology described herein provides a system performed on one or more computing devices for sharing data in a multiway video conference between a first computing device and one or more second computing devices in an online social network. The multiway video conference provided by the online social network can be accessed by a web browser on each of the respective computing devices. In one example the system is implemented as a server that communicates with each of the computing devices via an existing network infrastructure e.g. Internet intranet etc. . Each of the computing devices can correspond with a respective user in the online social network. The server acts as a hub for receiving video and audio data from one computing device and then broadcasting the video and audio data to the other computing devices in the multiway video conference. For instance incoming video and audio data can include data corresponding to the video and audio captured at the respective computing devices of respective users which is then broadcast to the other user s computing devices for presentation and processing.

Although the example shown in includes a single server the system can include a respective cluster of servers computers that perform a same set of functions provided by the server in a distributed and or load balanced manner. A cluster can be understood as a group of servers computers that are linked together to seamlessly perform the same set of functions which can provide performance reliability and availability advantages over a single server computer architecture.

As illustrated in the server in one example utilizes different and separate data channels for communicating with each of the computing devices. For instance incoming video and audio data are received on respective video and audio channels over a network from respective computing devices and then broadcasted to the other computing devices via respective video and audio channels corresponding to the other computing devices. The different data channels can be logical channels physical channels and or a mixture of logical and physical channels in some configurations.

Video audio and input device data can be transmitted via a network which can include but is not limited to a local network remote network or an interconnected network of networks e.g. Internet . Moreover the client computing device host client computing device other computing devices and server can be configured to communicate over any type of network such as a local area network a wide area network or an interconnected network of networks e.g. the Internet and by using any sort of network communications protocol Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP HTTP etc. .

The server can establish a remoting session between the client computing device and the host client computing device based on an interaction between the client computing device and host client computing device in the online social network. More specifically the server facilitates a negotiation between the client and host client computing devices e.g. by accepting the request from the client and then routing it to the host . As the respective users on the client and host client computing devices have been authenticated via the online social network the server is not required re authenticate the client computing device and host client computing device . In one example the client computing device can transmit a request via the online social network intended for the host client computing device for accessing a desktop or a specific application window on the host client computing device s desktop. The server can receive the request and then subsequently route the request to the host client computing device . On the host client computing device the request can be presented as a dialog box notification or message within the online social network. If a user on the host client computing device accepts the request to grant access to the client computing device the remoting session is automatically established between client and host client computing devices. For instance the server can receive an acknowledgment that the host client computing device granted access to the client computing device. In this manner a typical setup for remote access that requires a multiplicity of steps is reduced to fewer and more friendly to the user experience steps.

To provide remote access and control of one user s computing device in the multiway video conference the server utilizes a separate data channel for receiving control data e.g. input device data from the client computing device and another separate data channel transmitting the control data to the host client computing device . The control data in some configurations includes input device data such as mouse input data keyboard data and or touch and gesture data. The mouse input data corresponds to mouse events that are captured by the client computing device and then transmitted to the server . Similarly the keyboard data corresponds to keyboard events that are captured by the client computing device and subsequently transmitted to the server . Touch and gesture data correspond to inputs received via a touch sensitive input device such as a touch screen or touch pad etc. In one example the separate data channel is an unreliable data channel that utilizes a reliable communication protocol for transferring data to the host client computing device. An unreliable data channel in one example can transport packets according to the following transport protocols User Datagram Protocol UDP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP Datagram Congestion Control Protocol DCCP etc. The unreliable data channel exhibits an amount of data loss in some instances.

The process begins at by receiving input device data via an unreliable data channel from a first computing device e.g. the client computing device in which the input device data includes keyboard data and mouse input data from the first computing device. In some configurations the input device data includes touch and gesture data from the first computing device. If so the process continues to as described below. Alternatively the process continues to as described further below.

The process at determines a host client computing device among one or more second computing devices in a multiway video conference for receiving the input device data. This determination can be made by way of example by including a unique identifier e.g. IP destination address or token with the received input device data that corresponds to the host client computing device. The host client computing device accepts the input device data for being remotely controlled by the first computing device based on an interaction between the host and first computing devices in the online social network e.g. via the aforementioned negotiation procedure described above . Each of the first computing device and the one or more second computing devices correspond to respective users in an online social network in one example.

The process at then transmits the input device data via a second unreliable data channel to the determined host client computing device in which the input device data is transmitted on a separate data channel from any video or audio data transmitted to the host client computing device. The input device data transmitted via the second unreliable data channel utilizes a reliable communication protocol. However the second unreliable data channel exhibits an amount of data loss. Because of the potential data loss the input device data is transmitted in replicate via the second unreliable data channel in some instances. Further transmitting the input device data occurs over a unicast connection established with the host client computing device in some configurations. The unicast connection provides an additional security benefit as the input device data is only transmitted to an intended destination e.g. the determined host client computing device to minimize the potential for network snooping.

After transmitting the input device data at the process determines at if video and or audio data from one of the computing devices in the multiway video conference is received. For the sake of simplicity and not to obscure the below description the following example illustrates receiving video and audio data from one computing device. However it should be understood that video and audio data can be received from each of the computing devices at various different times . In this example the process receives video data via a video channel and audio data via an audio channel from the first computing device in which the video and audio channels are separate data channels from the aforementioned unreliable data channel.

To broadcast this data to the other computing devices in the multiway video conference the process at transmits the video data via respective video channels to the host client computing device and the one or more second computing devices. Each of the respective video channels respectively corresponds to each of the host client computing device and the one or more second computing devices. Similarly the process transmits the audio data via respective audio channels to the host client computing device and the one or more second computing devices in the multiway video conference. Each of the respective audio channels respectively corresponds to each of the host client computing device and the one or more second computing devices. The video and audio data can be transmitted asynchronously in one example. Alternatively the video and audio data can be transmitted synchronously in a parallel manner.

In another example the process receives video data from the host client computing device at . For instance the video data includes data of a remote user s desktop at the host client computing device responsive to the transmitted input device data from 215. In particular the video data includes data of an entirety of the remote user s desktop or includes data of a specific application window from the remote user s desktop in some configuration. To broadcast this video data to the other computing devices the process transmits the video data at via respective video channels to the first computing device and the one or more second computing devices in the multiway video conference. Each of the respective video channels respectively corresponds to the first computing device and each of the one or more second computing devices. In this manner the host client computing device s desktop GUI can be shared with the other computing devices. The process then ends.

A client computing device can capture input device data e.g. mouse keyboard and or touch and gesture input for remotely controlling a host client computing device and then transmit the input device data to a server. As described above the server can receive the input device data and then subsequently transmit the input device data to a host client computing device. Given that the input device data is transmitted via an unreliable data channel in order to reduce latency in the multiway video conference some percentage of data loss is tolerated. To address potential data loss the server transmits the input device data in replicate in some configurations. In other words the server transmits duplicated input device data to the host client computing device. At the host client computing device input device data including duplicated input device data is processed.

The process begins at by receiving input device data via an unreliable data channel in which the input device data includes keyboard data and mouse input data for remotely controlling the host client computing device by a client computing device. Further in some configurations the input device data includes touch and gesture data.

The process at determines if the received input device data includes duplicate data received in a prior transmission received by the host client computing device. In one example the received input device data includes one or more data segments including keyboard data mouse input data or touch and gesture data where each of the one or more data segments include respective identifiers for each keyboard data mouse input data or touch and gesture data included in the one or more data segments. To determine if the received input device data includes duplicate data the process determines if the one or more data segments have been previously received based on the respective identifiers for each keyboard data mouse input data or touch and gesture data included in the one or more data segments. For instance the respective identifiers indicate a sequence in which the each keyboard data mouse input data or touch and gesture data was received. The process utilizes a record of previously received data segments according to the respective identifiers and then compares the respective identifiers in the received data segments to one or more identifiers corresponding to previously received data segments for keyboard mouse input and or touch and gesture data.

The process at discards the duplicate data if it is determined that duplicate data is included in the received input device data. In one example the process flushes a buffer containing the received input device data or marks the received input device data as invalid.

The process at determines if the received input device data includes new data received by the host client computing device in which the new data includes input device data that is received at an initial time by the host client computing device. In one example the process compares the respective identifiers of keyboard data mouse input device data and or touch and gesture data from the received input device data with the identifiers from the record of previously received keyboard mouse and or touch and gesture input similar to the discussion above at in order to determine if new data is received.

The process at updates a graphical user interface GUI provided by the host client computing device responsive to the determined new data included in the received input device data. For example the GUI is refreshed or rendered according to the received input device data.

The process then at transmits video data via a video data channel corresponding with the updated GUI to a server for sharing with a plurality of client computing devices in a multiway video conference. The multiway video conference between the plurality of computing devices is accessed in a web browser at each of the plurality of computing devices in some configurations. The process then ends.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

The following description describes an example API architecture in which some configurations of the subject technology can be implemented.

It will be appreciated that the API implementing component can include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through the API 410 and are not available to the API calling component . It should be understood that the API calling component can be on the same system as the API implementing component or can be located remotely and accesses the API implementing component using the API 410 over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with the API 410 it should be understood that other API calling components which can be written in different languages or the same language than the API calling component can use the API 410.

The API implementing component the API 410 and the API calling component can be stored in a machine readable medium which includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer or other data processing system . For example a machine readable medium includes magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices etc.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims.

