---

title: Composite public cloud, method and system
abstract: A composite public cloud enables an automated marketplace system for, selling and trading of computational resources by aggregating available compute resources so that buyers are automatically matched with sellers. A listing of compute resources available on a prospective seller's system and bids by prospective buyers for resources offered is maintained. A seller uses a series of attributes to characterize an available resource for prospective buyers. Compute resources are presented in a form which can be easily quantified or compartmentalized. Prospective buyers search the marketplace system based on desired resource criteria. The marketplace continually evaluates the attributes of resources available for sale and the desired criteria of prospective buyers. The system attempts to match buyers and sellers, optimizing for the needs of both parties. If a desirable match is found, the marketplace system facilitates a transaction between both parties, making the purchased resource available to the buyer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977754&OS=08977754&RS=08977754
owner: Metacloud Inc.
number: 08977754
owner_city: Chatsworth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120508
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 484 178 filed May 9 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

Generally the invention relates to cloud computing. More particularly the invention relates to a method and system for creating a composite public cloud.

Recently a model for delivering hosted services over the Internet as emerged that has come to be known as cloud computing . The term cloud computing flows naturally from the cloud symbol that is often used to represent the Internet or other network in various diagrams. The hosted services fall into a handful of categories for example Infrastructure as a Service IaaS Platform as a Service PaaS and Software as a Service SaaS .

Cloud computing has several characteristics that distinguish it from traditional hosting. It is available on demand often by the minute or the hour for example. A user can have as much or as little of a service as they need or want at a time. Additionally the service is managed by the provider. Cloud computing owes its development to advances in virtualization and distributed computing coupled with continually increasing opportunities for high speed Internet access.

In general there exist public and private clouds with the public clouds making computational resources available to all corners. In contrast a private cloud is usually privately owned and run and serves a limited population of users for example the employees of a large corporation that owns the compute infrastructure. Additionally virtual private clouds can be created from public cloud resources.

Infrastructure as a service is a way of taking individual physical servers and virtualizing them in such a way that one may have for example a thousand physical servers upon which virtualization software may be overlaid. The virtualization application can in its turn present those thousand physical servers as for example 10 000 virtual servers. Within these virtual servers one can then run his or her corresponding enterprise applications. Thus virtualizing previously physical resources is known as infrastructure service.

A composite public cloud enables an automated marketplace system for buying selling and trading of computational resources by aggregating available compute resources so that buyers are automatically matched with sellers. A listing of compute resources available on a prospective seller s system and bids by prospective buyers for resources offered is maintained. A seller uses a series of attributes to characterize an available resource for prospective buyers. Compute resources are presented in a form which can be easily quantified or compartmentalized. Prospective buyers search the marketplace system based on desired resource criteria. The marketplace continually evaluates the attributes of resources available for sale and the desired criteria of prospective buyers. The system attempts to match buyers and sellers optimizing for the needs of both parties. If a desirable match is found the marketplace system facilitates a transaction between both parties making the purchased resource available to the buyer.

A composite public cloud enables an automated marketplace system for selling and trading of computational resources by aggregating available compute resources so that buyers are automatically matched with sellers. A listing of compute resources available on a prospective seller s system and bids by prospective buyers for resources offered is maintained. A seller uses a series of attributes to characterize an available resource for prospective buyers. Compute resources are presented in a form which can be easily quantified or compartmentalized. Prospective buyers search the marketplace system based on desired resource criteria. The marketplace continually evaluates the attributes of resources available for sale and the desired criteria of prospective buyers. The system attempts to match buyers and sellers optimizing for the needs of both parties. If a desirable match is found the marketplace system facilitates a transaction between both parties making the purchased resource available to the buyer.

In an embodiment the marketplace described above presupposes a reliable inventory of compute to offer for sale in the marketplace. In an embodiment the inventory is the compute and the storage and everything else that s part of the cloud. If the compute is to be offered in the marketplace as a commodity the supply must be reliable and the quality good. In an embodiment the solution to the problem of obtaining an adequate inventory of acceptable quality is to offer only compute that has been managed and operated by the provider.

Conventional cloud computing is based on the public cloud model described in greater detail herein below wherein subscriber s or clients purchase compute from services providers that provide expansive public networks. While the conventional public cloud model readily makes compute available to parties who have none or who are in need of more compute than they have the resources for and provides the additional advantage of providing full management of the subscribed it has the distinct disadvantage of being quite costly. In fact an organization can install and manage its own data center for a fraction of the cost of the same compute capacity purchased from a cloud computing provider. Unfortunately the organization is then faced with the formidable burden of managing its own private cloud. Thus there exists a great need in the art for a solution to the problem posed by the expense of public cloud providers and the burden of managing a private cloud.

In an embodiment a service provider contracts with organizations or parties having physical servers in data centers to design and implement private clouds in their data centers that are then fully managed by the service provider. Additionally the service provider sets up an IaaS infrastructure as a service offering in the data center. Thus the organization is able to dedicate a portion of its compute to public tenants in effect creating a public cloud that can then be aggregated with the same type of public compute from other parties into a Composite Public Cloud as described herein below. Therefore by leasing a portion of its compute to public tenants through the Composite Public Cloud the organization is able to convert a traditional cost center into a profit center. In addition the cost to maintain its own private cloud is a fraction of the cost to acquire equivalent compute from public cloud providers. In an embodiment the service may employ a subscription business model wherein clients may pay on a per server basis for cloud management from the service provider. It will be readily appreciated that other business models are equally suitable.

In an embodiment the various components of the managed private cloud are implemented via OPENSTACK open source cloud computing software. In particular the virtualized networking is a function of an OPENSTACK project known as NOVA NETWORKING also OPENSTACK COMPUTE. NOVA is the software that controls an Infrastructure as a Service IaaS cloud computing platform. NOVA does not include any virtualization software but instead defines drivers that interact with underlying virtualization mechanisms that run on a host operating system and exposes functionality over a web API application programming interface . Additionally a self service dashboard is a function of OPENSTACK DASHBOARD.

As above managed private cloud clients may make their underutilized compute resources available for sale in effect using a portion of their private clouds to create public clouds which as above may be aggregated to form a Composite Public Cloud. Companies can come and purchase resources like compute and storage which resources are provided by the managed private cloud customers giving them an opportunity to leverage their excess resources and to generate a cash flow or a revenue stream from their private cloud. In an embodiment the Composite Public Cloud is in actuality a virtualized cloud aggregated from all these portions of these various private clouds.

In addition to reducing the client s cloud computing costs and providing an opportunity to generate cash flow from the data center the above model also solves the service provider s problem of sourcing compute inventory for the Composite Public Cloud. The inventory constitutes the compute the storage and everything else that is part of the cloud.

By sourcing compute inventory from its own managed private cloud clients the service provider is assured of a steady inventory of compute of known quality. By supplying inventory of known quality that the provider has managed the provider is able to provide a reliable repeatable experience to customers purchasing compute through the Composite Private Cloud.

Essential to the creation of a vibrant compute resale marketplace compute inventory must be created. To function as a commodity compute inventory must be quantifiable measurable and deterministic. By first managing the compute seller s Private cloud low level measurement and quality constraints can be put in place. Private Cloud management software guarantees quality of service via network QoS compute orchestration and workload management. Performance data is continually streamed from the private cloud to the central market so that compute consumption can be further metered in the interest of performance control.

New sold inventory is segregated and encapsulated as to not present a security risk to the Private Cloud tenants or prior sold inventory. Compute containment occurs by means of packet inspection and filtering at all layers of the network stack.

Compute resources have a series of associated attributes for the purpose of describing the quality of the resource available for sale. A multitude of dynamically derived data will be continuously streamed to the central Market Place control logic which will include at least one of 

Grace Period denotes the minimum amount of time the Private Cloud Provider is required to give to the purchaser in the event purchased compute must be terminated and reclaimed. Longer grace periods will likely translate into higher market values. By default all compute is considered perpetual until terminated by either party 

In an embodiment the Market Logic tracks all contracts lot sold time to delivery and the percentage of time a contract is delivered without interruption up to the grace period . This percentage is made available to the compute lot purchaser as a measure of quality so that it can be considered alongside the asking price . Contract success percentage also affects market price.

In an embodiment the marketplace system maintains a listing of both compute resources available for sale on a prospective seller s system and bid requests by prospective buyers for resources offered. In this regard the marketplace functions as a compute resource aggregator or intermediary.

In an embodiment the contract holder can utilize a compute lot at start of availability but prior to such time contracts can be bought and sold freely. In an embodiment the contacts are traded on a compute commodity exchange and may be freely bought and sold in speculative transactions on the exchange.

In an embodiment prospective buyers may search the marketplace system via automated or manual means based on desired resource criteria. The marketplace continually evaluates the attributes of resources available for sale and the desired criteria of prospective buyers. The system attempts to match buyers and sellers optimizing for the needs of both parties. Assuming a desirable match is found the marketplace system facilitates a transaction between both parties ultimately making the purchased resource available to the seller.

Turning now to a schematic diagram of a logical private cloud aggregation is shown. In an embodiment a Composite Public Cloud is formed by aggregating excess compute from private clouds N . As shown in each of the private clouds comprises at least one availability zone. Private cloud includes private availability zones and . Private cloud N includes for example one private availability zone . The ordinarily skilled person will understand that the configuration of private clouds and the private availability zones is for illustration only. In actual fact a private cloud could have a large number of availability zones as described below. Going back to one can see that private availability zone of private cloud contains multiple tenants for example private tenants and and resale tenants and . Private availability zone contains for example two private tenants and three resale tenants . Private cloud N includes for example one private availability zone having one resale tenant and three private tenants 

In embodiments an availability zone may be a physical instance of a private cloud. For example as shown in private cloud N is shown to contain a single availability zone. Thus there exists only one physical instance of private cloud N. On the other hand private cloud has two availability zones . Thus there exist two physical instances of private cloud . In embodiments each physical instance may constitute a separate data center each in different locations. For example private cloud could be the private data cloud of a multi national corporation having data centers for example in North America and Asia.

It can be seen that the Composite Public Cloud may contain for example public availability zones each of which contains at least one of public tenants . As shown the public tenants in the Composite Public Cloud are virtual or logical entities that are created by mapping resale tenants from private availability zones within private clouds N thereby aggregating the resale tenants to form a virtual Composite Public Cloud .

It is to be understood then that while tenants are a logical separation availability zones represent a physical separation. Thus an availability zone may be thought of as a super set of tenants.

In contrast to the Composite Public Cloud described herein a public cloud is one based on the conventional cloud computing model in which a service provider makes resources such as applications and storage available to the general public over a publicly available network such as the Internet. Public cloud services may be free or may be offered on a pay per usage model. The public cloud is exemplified by such IaaS offerings as AMAZON WEB SERVICES which is in effect a public cloud segregated into multiple data centers. Thus when a client purchases compute time from Amazon he or she may specify I want my virtual server to sit within the Amazon East Coast or West Coast or European data center. By placing that compute in these different availability zones the client is basically placing that virtual machine in different instances of AMAZON s cloud.

One of the important aspects of infrastructure as a service IaaS is that it is multi tenant thus providing the ability to logically segregate computing resources from each other within the same cloud effectively filtering traffic between different members of the same cloud and specifying rules for how that traffic should flow.

Thus if one were to build a private cloud having fifty physical servers and within those fifty physical servers there were two virtual servers on each physical server the resulting cloud would number a hundred virtual servers on the fifty physical servers . In an exemplary IaaS offering the service provider might segregate that cloud into two virtual tenants each tenant having fifty virtual machines. From the point of view of cloud computing the service provider can make rules that say for example that he would only allow Web traffic between these two tenants or only allow e mail traffic between these two tenants. Thus such rules can be put into place at a protocol level.

Therefore the attribute of multi tenancy is the basis for a marketplace in which a portion of the tenants defined within a managed private cloud customers are made available for resale. Thus the multi tenancy capability for a given private cloud allows the cloud owner to sell compute to for example two or three customers via the marketplace and to segregate those two or three customers on their own tenant space protecting them from each other but also protecting the managed private cloud corporate customer from what amounts to foreign compute coming in through the brokerage.

One might realize based on the foregoing that the Composite Public Cloud is in fact not a cloud. In one embodiment the Composite Public Cloud is actually a portal that is constructed to have the look and feel of a public cloud. As a customer of the Composite Public Cloud one would visit the Composite Public Cloud portal and for example submit a virtual machine that one wanted pushed out to the Composite Public Cloud to be offered for sale. By means of the portal the Composite Public Cloud provider depicts each of those managed private clouds as availability zones in the Composite Public Cloud. Multi tenancy and the concept of the availability zone are thus extremely useful in describing the Composite Public Cloud to prospective compute sellers and to prospective compute buyers.

Turning now to shown is a schematic diagram of a private cloud aggregation platform embodiments of which serve to implement the logical private cloud aggregation described herein above. Embodiments of the private cloud aggregation platform will include at least one of the following components 

As previously indicated the physical infrastructure of a cloud is in essence commodity hardware regular physical servers disks storage and network switches with a software overlay and virtually carved up to be presented as whatever housed within data centers of varying size from small data centers having only a few servers to large data centers having thousands of servers. Referring now to shown is a representation of an exemplary data center . As previously described a single data center is ordinarily represented within the cloud as an availability zone. As shown in the data center includes typically a number of servers. Here there are two server racks each containing four rack servers for a total of eight servers. Each server is a DELL POWEREDGE R701 rack server DELL Inc. Roundrock Tex. . Each server in turn is communicatively coupled to a network switch . Here each network switch is a DELL FORCE 10 chassis based switch DELL Inc. Roundrock Tex. . Each of the switches is communicatively coupled to the cloud either directly to the Internet or via a network such as a WAN wide area network .

One of ordinary skill will recognize that the above description is exemplary only. As above a data center may house only a few servers or it may house many thousands. Additionally because a data center may be built completely from commodity hardware there may exist thousands of component configurations using commodity hardware supplied by a vast number of manufacturers.

Referring back to the previous example of the fifty physical servers in a corporate private cloud the servers are typically off the shelf commodity X86 base servers. Two servers may be allocated as cloud controllers tasked with the role of handling orchestration collaboration and management of compute across the remaining servers. The remaining servers in that cloud are hypervisors. The person of ordinary skill will recognize that hypervisor is an industry standard term for software that allows for the creation of one or more virtual machines on top of a real physical machine. In an exemplary embodiment the hypervisor used is KVM Kernel based virtual machine . It will be appreciated however that other hypervisors may be used. Then each of the fifty physical servers is communicatively coupled to a commodity network switch as shown in .

While a full virtual service oriented infrastructure may include a wide array of technologies that provide resource aggregation management availability and mobility the hypervisor may be seen as the foundational core of virtual infrastructure.

Using the foregoing software hardware architecture enables virtualization of all of the computing allowing creation of as many virtual servers as desired. Additionally network routing relationships between the different tenants may also be dynamically defined.

As mentioned previously the virtualization software may include a user dashboard from which customized views and user interfaces may be created. show views created from the dashboard. shows a billing overview that includes a tenant billing summary . shows a tenant summary that includes an active instant usage summary and a terminated instant usage summary .

Referring now to shown is a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer platform within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one of the methodologies discussed herein below may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine may comprise a network router a network switch a network bridge personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance or any machine capable of executing a sequence of instructions that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

The computer platform includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer platform may further include a display unit for example a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer platform also includes an alphanumeric input device for example a keyboard a cursor control device for example a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device for example a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of executable instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein below. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received over a network by means of a network interface device .

In contrast to the platform discussed above a different embodiment uses logic circuitry instead of computer executed instructions to implement processing offers. Depending upon the particular requirements of the application in the areas of speed expense tooling costs and the like this logic may be implemented by constructing an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having thousands of tiny integrated transistors. Such an ASIC may be implemented with CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor TTL transistor transistor logic VLSI very large scale integration or another suitable construction. Other alternatives include a digital signal processing chip DSP discrete circuitry such as resistors capacitors diodes inductors and transistors field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic array PLA programmable logic device PLD and the like. It is to be understood that embodiments of this invention may be used as or to support software programs executed upon some form of processing core such as the Central Processing Unit of a computer or otherwise implemented or realized upon or within a machine or computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer. For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals for example carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or any other type of media suitable for storing or transmitting information. Additionally a machine readable medium may be understood to mean a non transitory machine readable medium.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

