---

title: Variable resistance memory device and operating method thereof
abstract: An operating method of a variable resistance memory device including a pre-read step which may include the steps of: reading a first reference cell using a first reference voltage; reading a second reference cell using a second reference voltage; and setting a third reference voltage based on the first and second reference voltages; and a main read step of reading a selected memory cell using the third reference voltage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030861&OS=09030861&RS=09030861
owner: SK Hynix Inc.
number: 09030861
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20121219
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean application number 10 2012 0094864 filed on Aug. 29 2012 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to a semiconductor memory device and more particularly to a variable resistance memory device and an operating method thereof.

In general a semiconductor memory device is classified into a volatile memory device and a nonvolatile memory device. The volatile memory device loses data stored therein when power supply is cut off but the nonvolatile memory device maintains data stored therein even though power supply is cut off. The nonvolatile memory device may include various types of memory cells.

The nonvolatile memory device may be divided into a flash memory device a ferroelectric RAM FRAM using a ferroelectric capacitor a magnetic RAM MRAM using a tunneling magneto resistive TMR layer a phase change memory device using chalcogenide alloys and the like depending on the structure of memory cells. In particular the phase change memory device is a nonvolatile memory device using phase change based on temperature change that is resistance change. For this reason the phase change memory device is also referred to as a variable resistance memory device.

The phase change memory device includes memory cells formed of a phase change material for example a chalcogenide alloy which is a germanium Ge antimony Sb tellurium Te mixture GST hereafter referred to as a GST material . The GST material has an amorphous state having a relatively high resistivity and a crystalline state having a relatively low resistivity. The memory cell of the phase change memory device may store data 0 corresponding to the amorphous state and data 1 corresponding to the crystalline state. The GST material may be heated to program the data corresponding to the amorphous state or the crystalline state into the memory cell of the phase change memory device. For example the amorphous state or the crystalline state of the GST material may be controlled by adjusting the magnitude of a current for heating the GST material and the application time of the current.

However as the time elapses after the program operation resistance drift may occur in the GST material forming the memory cell of the phase change memory device. When the resistance drift occurs the resistance value of the GST material does not maintain a fixed value but increases. The resistance change of the GST material may reduce a sensing margin of the memory cell thereby reducing the reliability of the phase change memory device.

A variable resistance memory device of which the reliability is improved and an operating method thereof are described herein.

In an embodiment an operating method of a variable resistance memory device includes a pre read step including the steps of reading a first reference cell using a first reference voltage reading a second reference cell using a second reference voltage and setting a third reference voltage based on the first and second reference voltages and a main read step of reading a selected memory cell using the third reference voltage.

In an embodiment a variable resistance memory device includes a memory cell arranged at a region where a word line and a bit line cross each other a first reference cell and a second reference cell connected to the word line a reference sense amplifier configured to perform a read operation for the first and second reference cells and generate a third reference voltage generation code based on a first reference voltage used for the read operation for the first reference cell and a second reference voltage used for the read operation for the second reference cell and a main sense amplifier configured to select a third reference voltage according to the third reference voltage generation code and perform a read operation for the memory cell using the selected third reference voltage.

Hereinafter a variable resistance memory device and an operating method thereof according to various embodiments will be described below with reference to the accompanying drawings through the various embodiments.

Various embodiments will be described below in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present invention to those skilled in the art.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale and in some instances proportions may have been exaggerated in order to clearly illustrate features of the embodiments. In this specification specific terms have been used. The terms are used to describe the present invention and are not used to qualify the sense or limit the scope of the present invention.

In this specification and or represents that one or more of components arranged before and after and or is included. Furthermore connected coupled represents that one component is directly coupled to another component or indirectly coupled through another component. In this specification a singular form may include a plural form as long as it is not specifically mentioned in a sentence. Furthermore include comprise or including comprising used in the specification represents that one or more components steps operations and elements exists or are added.

Referring to the nonvolatile memory device may include a memory cell array a row decoder a column decoder a data read write circuit an input output buffer circuit and a control logic .

The memory cell array may include a main cell array  M and a reference cell array  R. The main cell array  M may include memory cells for storing data provided from an external device not illustrated . The reference cell array  R may include reference cells for performing a read operation while minimizing a resistance drift effect. The main cell array  M and the reference cell array  R will be described with reference to .

The row decoder may be operated according to the control of the control logic . The row decoder may be connected to the memory cell array through a plurality of word lines WL. The row decoder may be configured to decode an address ADDR inputted from outside. The row decoder may provide a select voltage to a selected word line and provide an unselect voltage to an unselected word line according to the decoding result.

The column decoder may be operated according to the control of the control logic . The column decoder may be connected to the memory cell array through a plurality of bit lines BL. The column decoder may be configured to decode the address ADDR. The column decoder may be configured to electrically connect the bit lines BL to the data read write circuit according to the decoding result.

The data read write circuit may be operated according to the control of the control logic . The data read write circuit may include a write driver and a sense amplifier .

The write driver may be configured to perform a write operation on the memory cells included in the memory cell array . The write driver may be configured to provide a write current to a bit line BL during a write operation. For example the write driver may provide a current for writing or programming data 1 or 0 to a selected memory cell MC.

The sense amplifier may be configured to perform a read operation on the memory cells included in the memory cell array . The sense amplifier may be configured to read data stored in a selected memory cell during a read operation or verify read operation. The sense amplifier may sense a difference between a reference voltage and the voltage of a sensing node formed according to the state of the selected memory cell. Furthermore the sense amplifier may determine the data stored in the memory cell from the sensing result. The sense amplifier may be configured to sense states of the reference cells and control the reference voltage according to the sensing result. This operation will be described in detail.

The input output buffer circuit may be configured to receive data from an external device for example a memory controller a memory interface a host device a test device or the like or output data to the external device. For this operation the input output output buffer circuit may include a data latch circuit not illustrated and an output driving circuit not illustrated .

The control logic may be configured to control overall operations of the phase change memory device in response to a command provided from the external device. For example the control logic may control read program or write and erase operations of the phase change memory device . Furthermore when the variable resistance memory device is configured with a phase change memory device the erase operation may indicate an operation of programming a memory cell to the amorphous state.

The control logic may be configured to control a reference cell program operation and a pre read operation in order to perform a read operation or verify read operation while minimizing a resistance drift occurring in the main cell array  M. The control logic performs a reference cell program operation and a pre read operation through the write driver and the sense amplifier . The reference cell program operation and the pre read operation will be described in detail with reference to a flow chart below.

The memory element may have a variable resistance value depending on an applied current I. Therefore the memory element may be referred to as a resistor element. Referring to illustrating the cross section of the memory element the memory element may include a top electrode a GST material a contact plug CP and a bottom electrode .

The top electrode may be connected to a bit line BL. The bottom electrode may be connected between the CP and a selecting element not illustrated . The CP is formed of a conductive material for example TiN . The CP is referred to as a heater plug. The GST material is formed between the top electrode and the CP .

The phase of the GST material may change depending on the magnitude of a supplied current and the time at which the current is supplied. As illustrated in the phase of the GST material corresponding to a reset state or set state may be decided by an amorphous volume . As the phase changes from the amorphous state to the crystalline state the amorphous volume decreases. The amorphous state corresponds to the reset state and the crystalline state corresponds to the set state. The GST material has a resistance value which is varied according to the amorphous volume . That is data to be written into the memory cell is decided by the amorphous volume of the GST material which is formed according to an applied current.

In RST represents a condition for changing the GST material into the amorphous state that is reset state . The GST material changes to the amorphous state when the GST material is heated at a higher temperature i.e. y axis displays temperature TMP and the x axis displays time t than a melting temperature Tm during a time t and then rapidly quenched. The amorphous state has a relatively high resistance value. For example when the GST material changes to the amorphous state the memory cell of may store data 0 .

Furthermore ST represents a condition for changing the GST material into the crystalline state that is set state . The GST material changes to the crystalline state when the GST material is heated at a higher temperature than a crystallization temperature Tc during a time t longer than the time t and then slowly quenched. The crystallization temperature Tc is lower than the melting temperature Tm. The crystalline state has a relatively low resistance value. For example when the GST material changes to the crystalline state the memory cell may store data 1 .

In order to determine data stored in the memory cell that is in order to determine the resistance distributions of the memory cell a reference voltage is used. For example when the voltage of a sensing node formed according to the state of the memory cell is smaller than the reference voltage the sense amplifier of determines that the memory cell is in the set state i.e. SET . As another example when the voltage of the sensing node formed according to the state of the memory cell is larger than the reference voltage the sense amplifier determines that the memory cell is in the reset state i.e. RESET .

When the reference voltage is properly varied i.e. Variable it is possible to secure a sensing margin even though the resistance distributions of the memory cell is changed by a resistance drift effect as indicated by dotted lines of i.e. y axis displays the number of cells of cells and the x axis displays resistance R .

Referring to the memory cell may include a memory element and a selecting element . The memory element may be connected between a bit line BL and the selecting element . The selecting element may be connected between the memory element and the ground GND. The selecting element has a gate connected to a word line WL. illustrates that the memory element may be connected between the bit line BL and the selecting element but the selecting element may be connected between the bit line BL and the memory element .

The memory element has the same configuration i.e. GST and performs the same operation as the memory element illustrated in . Therefore the detailed descriptions thereof will be omitted herein.

The selecting element may include an NMOS transistor NT. When a predetermined voltage is applied to the word line WL to select the memory cell the NMOS transistor NT is turned on. When the NMOS transistor NT is turned on the memory element receives a current through the bit line BL.

Referring to the memory cell may include a memory element and a selecting element . The memory element may be connected between the bit line BL and the selecting element . The selecting element may be connected between the memory element and the word line WL.

The memory element has the same configuration i.e. GST and performs the same operation as the memory element illustrated in . Therefore the detailed descriptions thereof will be omitted herein.

The selecting element may include a diode D. The diode D has an anode connected to the memory element and a cathode connected to the word line WL. When a ground voltage GND not shown is applied to the word line WL to select the memory cell a voltage difference between the anode and the cathode of the diode D is changed. When the voltage difference between the anode and the cathode of the diode D becomes higher than the threshold voltage of the diode D the diode D is turned on. When the diode D is turned on the memory element receives a current through the bit line BL.

The main cell array  M may include memory cells MCs arranged at regions where bit lines BL to BLn and word lines WL to WLm cross each other. The memory cells MC connected to one word line for example any one of the word lines WL to WLm may be simultaneously programmed when the corresponding word line is enabled.

The reference cell array  R may include set reference cells SRC programmed in a set state that is a crystalline state . Furthermore the reference cell array  R may include reset reference cells RRC programmed in a reset state that is an amorphous state . One or more of set reference cells SRCs may be connected to each of the word lines. Furthermore one or more of reset reference cells RRCs may be connected to each of the word lines.

For this reason the memory cells MCs the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC connected to one word line for example any one of the word lines WL to WLm may be substantially simultaneously programmed when the corresponding word line is enabled. For example the memory cells MCs may be programmed in a state based on inputted data the set reference cell SRC may be programmed in a set state and the reset reference cell RRC may be programmed in a reset state at the same time or substantially the same time. This means that the same resistance drift effect may occur in the memory cells MCs the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC. Based on resistance changes of the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC which are influenced by the same resistance drift effect as the memory cells MCs a read operation for the memory cells MCs may be performed.

At step S i.e. Program selected memory cell to SET or RESET state a selected memory cell MC is programmed in any one of the set state and the reset state depending on inputted data. At step S i.e. Program SET reference cell to SET state and RESET reference cell to RESET state the reference cells SRC and RRC are programmed. That is the set reference cell SRC is programmed in the set state and the reset reference cell RRC is programmed in the reset state. The reference cells SRC and RRC are programmed for a pre read operation included in a read operation.

As described above memory cells MC a set reference cell SRC and a reset reference cell RRC which are connected to a selected word line are simultaneously programmed. That is the program operation for the memory cells MCs connected to the selected word line step S and the program operation for the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC connected to the selected word line step S are performed in parallel.

The set sense amplifier   may be configured to perform a read operation for the set reference cell SRC. The set sense amplifier   may be configured to sense a difference between the voltage of a sensing node not illustrated formed according to the state of the set reference cell SRC and the reference voltage provided from the reference voltage adjust block  .

The reset sense amplifier   may be configured to perform a read operation on the reset reference cell RRC. The reset sense amplifier   may be configured to sense a difference between the voltage of a sensing node not illustrated formed according to the state of the reset reference cell RRC and the reference voltage provided from the reference voltage adjust block  .

The pass fail check block   may be configured to control the reference voltage adjust block   according to the sensing results of the set sense amplifier   and the reset sense amplifier  . The reference voltage adjust block   may be configured to vary a set reference voltage SRV provided to the set sense amplifier   and a reset reference voltage RRV provided to the reset sense amplifier   according to the control of the pass fail check block  . Furthermore the reference voltage adjust block   may be configured to provide the set reference voltage SRV provided to the set sense amplifier   and the reset reference voltage RRV provided to the reset sense amplifier   to the reference voltage setting block   according to the control of the pass fail check block  .

When the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   or the reset sense amplifier   is a fail the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage adjust block   to vary the reference voltages SRV and RRV. For example when the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a fail the pass fail check block   may control the reference voltage adjust block   to increase the set reference voltage SRV. When the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a fail the pass fail check block   may control the reference voltage adjust block   to decrease the reset reference voltage RRV.

When the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a pass the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage adjust block   to provide the set reference voltage SRV provided to the set sense amplifier   from the reference voltage adjust block   to the reference voltage setting block  . When the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a pass the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage control block   to provide the reset reference voltage RRV provided to the reset sense amplifier   from the reference voltage adjust block   to the reference voltage setting block  .

The reference voltage setting block   may be configured to set a reference voltage to be used for a read operation of the main sense amplifier  M. For example the reference voltage setting block   may calculate an average of the set reference voltage SRV provided from the reference voltage adjust block   when the read operation of the set sense amplifier   is passed and the reset reference voltage RRV provided from the reference voltage adjust block   when the read operation of the reset sense amplifier   is passed. The calculated average value is provided to the main sense amplifier  M as a code value i.e. REF Voltage Code for generating a reference voltage to be used for a read operation of the main sense amplifier  M.

The reference voltage select block   of the main sense amplifier  M may be configured to select a reference voltage to be used for a read operation of a selected memory cell MC among voltages provided from a voltage generator not illustrated based on the reference voltage code value. As another example the reference voltage select block   may vary a voltage provided from the voltage generator not illustrated based on the reference voltage code value.

Referring to the read operation of the variable resistance memory device may include a pre read operation S and a main read operation S. The pre read operation S may include a read operation for reference cells SRC and RRC. The main read operation S may include a read operation for a selected memory cell MC. Through the pre read operation S a reference voltage to be used for the main read operation S is set.

At step S i.e. Read SET reference cell the set sense amplifier   performs a read operation on a set reference cell SRC connected to a selected word line WLm.

At step S i.e. Read pass the pass fail check block   may determine whether the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a pass or not. When the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a pass i.e. Yes the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage adjust block   to provide the set reference voltage SRV provided to the set sense amplifier   to the reference voltage setting block  . When the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a pass the procedure proceeds to step S. When the sensing result of the set sense amplifier   is a fail i.e. No the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage adjust block   to provide a set reference voltage SRV higher than the current set reference voltage SRV to the set sense amplifier  .

At step S i.e. Maximum SET reference voltage the reference voltage adjust block   may determine whether the set reference voltage SRV provided to the set sense amplifier   is the maximum value or not. When the read operation for the set reference cell SRC is a fail i.e. Yes even though the set reference voltage SRV was applied as the maximum value the procedure proceeds to step S i.e. Read Fail and the pre read operation S is ended as a fail.

At step S i.e. Increase reference voltage when the set reference voltage SRV is not the maximum value i.e. No the reference voltage adjust block   increases the set reference voltage SRV and provides the increased set reference voltage SRV to the set sense amplifier  . Until the read operation for the set reference cell SRC is passed the read operation is repeated while the set reference voltage SRV is varied.

At step S i.e. Read REST reference cell the reset sense amplifier   may perform a read operation on the reset reference cell RRC connected to the selected word line WLm.

At step S i.e. Read pass the pass fail check block   may determine whether the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a pass or not. When the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a pass i.e. Yes the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage adjust block   to provide the reset reference voltage RRV provided to the reset sense amplifier   to the reference voltage setting block  . When the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a pass the procedure proceeds to step S. When the sensing result of the reset sense amplifier   is a fail i.e. No the pass fail check block   controls the reference voltage control block   to provide a reset reference voltage RRV lower than the current reset reference voltage RRV to the reset sense amplifier  .

At step S i.e. Minimum RESET reference voltage the reference voltage adjust block   may determine whether the reset reference voltage RRV provided to the reset sense amplifier   is the minimum value or not. When the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC is a fail i.e. Yes even though the reset reference voltage RRV was applied as the minimum value the procedure proceeds to step S i.e. Read fail and the pre read operation S is ended as a read fail.

At step S i.e. Decrease reference voltage when the reset reference voltage RRV is not the minimum value i.e. No the reference voltage adjust block   decreases the reset reference voltage RRV and provides the decreased reset reference voltage RRV to the reset sense amplifier  . Until the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC is passed the read operation is repeated while the reset reference voltage RRV is varied.

For example the read operation for the set reference cell SRC and the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC may be performed in parallel. For another example the read operation for the set reference cell SRC and the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC may be sequentially performed.

At step S i.e. Setting read reference voltage for selected memory cell the set reference voltage SRV when the read operation for the set reference cell SRC was passed i.e. Yes and the reset reference voltage RRV when the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC was passed i.e. Yes are used to set the reference voltage to be used for the read operation of the selected memory cell MC i.e. S . For example an average value or intermediate value of the set reference voltage SRV when the read operation for the set reference cell SRC was passed and the reset reference voltage RRV when the read operation for the reset reference cell RRC was passed is used as the reference voltage to be used for the read operation for the selected memory cell MC.

After the pre read operation S for setting the reference voltage to be used for the read operation of the selected memory cell MC through the read operations for the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC is completed the main read operation S for the selected memory cell MC may be performed. At step S i.e. Read selected memory cell the main sense amplifier  M performs a read operation for the selected memory cell connected to the same word line as the word line connected to the set reference cell SRC and the reset reference cell RRC. The read operation for the selected memory cell MC may be performed in the same manner as a general read operation except that the read operation may be performed using the reference voltage set through the pre read operation S.

The controller may be coupled to the host and the data storage medium . The controller may be configured to access the data storage medium in response to a request from the host . For example the controller may be configured to control a read program or erase operation of the data storage medium . The controller may be configured to drive firmware for controlling the data storage medium .

The controller may include well known components such as a host interface a central processing unit CPU a memory interface a RAM and an error correction code ECC unit .

The CPU may be configured to control overall operations of the controller in response to a request of the host. The RAM may be used as a working memory of the CPU . The RAM may temporarily store data read from the data storage medium or data provided from the host .

The host interface may be configured to interface the host and the controller . For example the host interface may be configured to communicate with the host through one of a USB Universal Serial Bus protocol a MMC Multimedia Card protocol a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnection protocol a PCI E PCI Express protocol a PATA Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment protocol a SATA Serial ATA protocol an SCSI Small Computer System Interface protocol and an IDE Integrated Drive Electronics protocol.

The memory interface may be configured to interface the controller and the data storage medium . The memory interface may be configured to provide a command and address to the data storage medium . Furthermore the memory interface may be configured to exchange data with the data storage medium .

The data storage medium may be configured with the variable resistance memory device of according to an embodiment. The data storage medium may include a plurality of nonvolatile memory devices NVM to NVMk. As the data storage medium may be configured with the variable resistance memory device according to an embodiment the reliability of the data storage device may be improved.

The ECC unit may be configured to detect an error of the data read from the data storage medium . Furthermore the ECC unit may be configured to correct the detected error when the detected error falls within a correction range. Meanwhile the ECC unit may be provided inside or outside the controller depending on the memory system .

As another example the controller and the data storage medium may be integrated into one semiconductor device to form a memory card. For example the controller and the data storage medium may be integrated into one semiconductor device to form a PCMCIA personal computer memory card international association card a CF compact flash card a smart media card a memory stick a multi media card MMC RS MMC or MMC micro an SD secure digital card SD Mini SD or Micro SD or a UFS universal flash storage card.

As another example the controller or the data storage medium may be mounted in various types of packages. For example the controller or the data storage medium may be packaged and mounted according to various methods such as POP package on package ball grid arrays BGAs chip scale package CSP plastic leaded chip carrier PLCC plastic dual in line package PDIP die in waffle pack die in wafer form chip on board COB ceramic dual in line package CERDIP plastic metric quad flat package MQFP thin quad flat package TQFP small outline IC SOIC shrink small outline package SSOP thin small outline package TSOP thin quad flat package TQFP system in package SIP multi chip package MCP wafer level fabricated package WFP and wafer level processed stack package WSP .

Referring to the SD card may include one command pin for example second pin one clock pin for example fifth pin four data pins for example first seventh eighth and ninth pins and three power supply pins for example third fourth and sixth pins .

Through the command pin second pin a command and a response signal are transmitted. In general the command is transmitted to the SD card from the host and the response signal is transmitted to the host from the SD card.

The data pins first seventh eighth and ninth pins are divided into receive Rx pins for receiving data transmitted from the host and transmit Tx pins for transmitting data to the host. The Rx pins and the Tx pins respectively form a pair to transmit differential signals.

The SD card may include the variable resistance memory device of according to an embodiment and a controller for controlling the variable resistance memory device. The controller included in the SD card may have the same configuration and function as the controller described with reference to .

The host connection unit and the card connection unit may include a plurality of pins. The pins may include a command pin a clock pin a data pin and a power supply pin. The number of pins may differ depending on the type of the memory card .

The host controller may transmit a write command CMD a clock signal CLK generated from a clock generator not illustrated inside the host and data DATA to the memory card through the host connection unit . The card controller operates in response to the write command received through the card connection unit . The card controller may store the received data DATA in the memory device using a clock signal generated from a clock generator not illustrated inside the card controller according to the received clock signal CLK.

The host controller may transmit a read command CMD and the clock signal CLK generated from the clock generator inside the host to the memory card through the host connection unit . The card controller may operate in response to the read command received through the card connection unit . The card controller may read data from the memory device using the clock signal generated from the clock generator inside the card controller according to the received clock signal CLK and transmit the read data to the host controller .

The SSD may include an SSD controller a buffer memory device a plurality of G memory devices to a power supply a signal connector and a power connector .

The SSD may operate in response to a request of the host device . That is the SSD controller may be configured to access the variable resistance memory devices to in response to a request from the host . For example the SSD controller may be configured to control read program and erase operations of the variable resistance memory devices to

The buffer memory device may be configured to temporarily store data which are to be stored in the variable resistance memory devices to . Furthermore the buffer memory device may be configured to temporarily store data read from the variable resistance memory devices to . The data temporarily stored in the buffer memory device are transmitted to the host or the variable resistance memory devices to according to the control of the SSD controller .

The variable resistance memory devices to are used as storage media of the SSD . Each of the variable resistance memory devices to may include the variable resistance memory device of according to an embodiment. Therefore the reliability of the SSD may be improved.

The variable resistance memory devices to are connected to the SSD controller through a plurality of channels CH to CHn respectively. One channel may be connected to one or more variable resistance memory devices. The variable resistance memory devices connected to one channel may be connected to the same signal bus and data bus.

The power supply may be configured to provide power PWR inputted through the power connector into the SSD . The power supply may include an auxiliary power supply . The auxiliary power supply may be configured to supply power to normally terminate the SSD when sudden power off occurs. The auxiliary power supply may include super capacitors capable of storing the power PWR.

The SSD controller may be configured to exchange signals SGL with the host through the signal connector . Here the signals SGL may include commands addresses data and the like. The signal connector may include a connector such as PATA Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment SATA Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SCSI Small Computer System Interface or SAS Serial SCSI according to the interface method between the host and the SSD .

The memory interface may be configured to provide a command and address to the variable resistance memory devices to . Furthermore the memory interface may be configured to exchange data with the nonvolatile memory devices to . The memory interface may scatter data transmitted from the buffer memory device over the respective channels CH to CHn according to the control of the CPU . Furthermore the memory interface may transmit data read from the variable resistance memory devices to to the buffer memory device according to the control of the CPU .

The host interface may be configured to provide an interface with the SSD in response to the protocol of the host . For example the host interface may be configured to communicate with the host through one of PATA Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment SATA Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SCSI Small Computer System Interface SAS Serial SCSI protocols. Furthermore the host interface may perform a disk emulation function of supporting the host to recognize the SSD as a hard disk drive HDD .

The ECC unit may be configured to generate parity bits based on the data transmitted to the variable resistance memory devices to . The generated parity bits may be stored in spare areas of the variable resistance memory devices to . The ECC unit may be configured to detect an error of data read from the nonvolatile memory devices to . When the detected error falls within a correction range the ECC unit may correct the detected error.

The CPU may be configured to analyze and process a signal SGL inputted from the host . The CPU controls overall operations of the SSD controller in response to a request of the host . The CPU controls the operations of the buffer memory device and the variable resistance memory devices to according to firmware for driving the SSD . The RAM is used as a working memory device for driving the firmware.

The network adapter may be configured to provide an interfaces between the computer system and external networks. The CPU may be configured to perform overall arithmetic operations for driving an operating system or application programs staying in the RAM .

The data storage device may be configured to store overall data required by the computer system . For example the operating system for driving the computer system application programs various program modules program data and user data may be stored in the data storage device .

The RAM may be used as a working memory device of the computer system . During booting the operating system application programs various program modules which are read from the data storage device and program data required for driving the programs are loaded into the RAM . The ROM stores a basic input output system BIOS which is enabled before the operating system is driven. Through the user interface information exchange is performed between the computer system and a user.

Although not illustrated in the drawing the computer system may further include a battery application chipsets a camera image processor CIP and the like.

According to the embodiments it is possible to improve the sensing margin of the variable resistance memory cell thereby improving the reliability of the variable resistance memory device.

While various embodiments have been described above it will be understood to those skilled in the art that the embodiments described are by way of example only. Accordingly the variable resistance memory device described herein should not be limited based on the described embodiments.

