---

title: Systems and methods for enabling secure messaging, command, and control of remote devices, communicated via a short message service or other message oriented communications mediums
abstract: Given the rise in popularity of communicating personal, private, sensitive, or vital peer-to-peer or peer-to-group information over potentially insecure text messaging infrastructure, it would be desirable to provide a solution that enables the exchange of this type of information securely over at least one path via data and/or voice networks. Furthermore, it would be highly desirable to enable access to the secure exchange of information over the at least one path by a given entity, as well as other computer applications that the given entity may use.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172680&OS=09172680&RS=09172680
owner: PROTECTED MOBILITY, LLC
number: 09172680
owner_city: Rockville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
This application claims the benefit of the following applications which are also incorporated herein by reference as if expressly set forth 

The technology herein relates to message security and more particularly to secure exchange of message oriented and or command and control data between at least one server class system e.g. utilized by an organization and at least one peer system over potentially diverse communications paths. The technology herein further relates to a server class system that can also act as a gateway for other applications to exchange secure messages with at least one peer system.

Today a significant amount of information is communicated via the Short Message Service SMS infrastructure that is provided by mobile phone carriers worldwide. Other message oriented communications paths also exist such as Twitter and Google Groups. This type of communications has become widely popular over traditional voice conversations because it offers the participants some semblance of privacy in a room. No longer can an individual just eavesdrop on at least part of a conversation. In this simple case an interloper needs to be close enough to be able to read the screen of the communicating device.

While a naive user may believe that text conversations are private in fact some nefarious party can easily purchase technology over the Internet or elsewhere that allows him to monitor the communications exchange. Thus no real security exists in the vast majority of modern text messaging. An attacker can easily intercept and read the texts you send to your friends your family your business colleagues and others.

Even with the inherent security risks many entities who ought to be concerned about security and secrecy have embraced the technology due to the immediacy of the communications. Doctors and nurses may use the technology to exchange patient information even though this type of information is required by law to be secured. Financial institutions often send updates to their customers about their account balances transactions trades etc. that could easily be intercepted by malicious parties. Other use cases abound.

Some shy away from using these communications paths due to the insecurity but these vital and resilient communication channels have proven useful during times when other paths such as traditional voice and data networks are either overloaded or inaccessible especially during natural or unanticipated disasters. During these occurrences it has been well documented even by the US government that 

Consider government officials who need to exchange secure but potentially unclassified information. Other critical infrastructure such as a country s energy grid sensors or other machine to machine M2M communications provide for command and control of the equipment. Individuals with mal intent could easily create havoc during the exchange of information in these scenarios.

Thus with the proliferation of mobile portable or other remote computing devices being utilized in day to day communications retaining secure access with these devices is of paramount importance. Prior art is filed with examples of how to provide for secure communications with these devices over traditional data interconnects such as IP based networks virtual private networks transport layer security etc.

However many of these mediums are bandwidth constrained. Trying to layer traditional methods of securing communications onto these environments may prove fruitless as well as potentially exacerbate an already difficult situation. Therefore it would be highly desirable to provide a lightweight solution that enables secure access to and communications with these computing devices over message oriented channels as an alternative.

Furthermore many systems today are unable to participate in any correspondence via this technology or are saddled with additional overhead when communicating information to peer systems through some existing gateway infrastructure.

The exemplary illustrative non limiting technology herein addresses these needs in a multitude of ways. Exemplary illustrative non limiting technology herein thus provides methods and systems provided by a server based computing system utilized by an organization or entity to communicate securely with mobile portable or other embedded systems via message oriented communications facilities.

An example non limiting Protected Mobility Enterprise Console PMEC allows an organization or entity to utilize these alternate communications paths through a provided console interface and or via exposed web services that other applications can use to send and receive potentially private information. The exemplary illustrative non limiting technology herein provides among other things security of communications between the PMEC and collaborating devices.

To enable secure exchange of message oriented communications and maintain access to cooperating devices services such as those provided by a protected mobility enterprise console PMEC can be utilized. In one exemplary illustrative non limiting arrangement the PMEC is an application that can be installed by a given organization on a generic computer based platform or provided as a hosted managed service for a given entity. Its illustrative non limiting core functionality allows individuals operators or other applications to securely exchange sometimes critical information with other devices that are within its domain. The exchange of information can be accomplished over Internet related protocols such as HTTP alternatively through messaging services that provide gateway services to wireless network short messaging services or directly through interconnects with communication carriers.

Enabling more than one communications path to potentially critical infrastructure or personnel via the cooperating computing devices provides for resiliency of information flow and in some cases helps maintain business continuity. First responders governments military may also find these services useful.

As shown in the example non limiting PMEC is logically architected into separate functional areas or modules each providing separate capabilities that may be geographically physically dispersed to enable the system to scale. They are for example 

In the example shown PMEC interacts with a variety of devices that may connect to it from the Internet or other data network s and or from voice cellular network s . For example PMEC can securely or insecurely interact with cellular capable devices such as smart phones cellular telephones tablet computers laptop computers and the like that communicate using GSM LTE or other cellular wireless protocols. PMEC can also interact securely or insecurely with WiFi or other networked devices such as laptop computers tablet computers smartphones etc. that interconnect with the internet data network s . It is also compatible with third party SMS messaging service provider s that in turn may interconnect with the voice cellular network s and the Internet data network s .

After installation Operators Administrators use the operators services interface to configure manage the PMEC application block . The operator services may employ a database service to hold configuration policy and or key information or this information can be inputted on demand or both. Communications with at least one cooperating device can also be instantiated through this interface as it uses the facilities of the other provided services to complete the task

After configuration and access to the web service interface is enabled other applications can now interact with the exposed API via standard protocols such as HTTP s or other common remote procedure call mechanism that may be used for inter process communications block . The API allows other applications to exchange message oriented communications including but not limited to locating a device sending information de registering devices etc. with the at least one device that is within the PMEC s domain.

Whether the message oriented communications is generated via the Web user interface or through communications via the Web services interface for secure messaging the PMEC may use its cryptographic service interface to secure the message if the at least one device is registered within the PMEC s domain block . Given the appropriate cryptographic material the cryptographic services interface will appropriately cipher the message and return it for further processing by the PMEC .

While PMEC can send and receive secure messages sending receiving non secure messages is also possible i.e. . Clearly this would be the case if the PMEC did not have an associated public keys for a device. However in the example non limiting implementation an operator application may also choose to send a clear text message. If the application operator chooses to send a secure message and an associated public key is not known by the PMEC an error can be returned.

Assuming no error has occurred once the message has been processed by the cryptographic service interface the PMEC s message router is then handed the message to correctly exchange the communiqu with its intended target s block . If the message is outbound the message is handed off to PMEC gateway service for ultimate distribution via the at least one message gateway service such as etherSMS . If the information is inbound the message is then handed off to either the Web User interface service and or the Web Services interface for consumption by the Administrator operator an external application in communications with the Web Service API or both.

If the message router determines that the message is destined for at least one of the devices that is within the PMEC s domain based on policy and configuration the service will then forward the communiqu via the at least one of the configured messaging channel block . The messaging channel interconnects can be Internet based service such as etherSMS Skype Twitter to a wireless carrier s network other etc. Alternate paths for the communications to occur can be easily envisioned by those skilled in the art.

In one example non limiting configuration the PMEC in conjunction with a cooperating computer application such as ProtectedSMS as defined in co pending patent application No. 61 556 635 filed Nov. 7 2011 entitled Secure Messaging enables message oriented communications to be exchanged with various ones of such devices in a secure manner. By using the defined lightweight Contact Registration Exchange as described in co pending application co pending patent application No. 61 556 635 filed Nov. 7 2011 entitled Secure Messaging the PMEC can establish a database of public key s for devices in within its domain.

Assuming secure messaging is desired once the public keys are exchanged via the mechanisms outlined in patent application No. 61 556 635 filed Nov. 7 2011 entitled Secure Messaging between the at least one target device and a PMEC e.g. registered message oriented communications can be sent or received securely. In one exemplary embodiment illustrated in the PMEC is able to send a number of different command and control messages to the at least one collaborative device.

Additional services can be provided. For example there may be a need to send the same information to multiple recipients such as a locate command. In one example scenario a team of first responders are in the field handling a situation. A commander may need to determine the location of his her team members. As indicated in an administrator can easily define groups of users and or devices. By simply selecting the group via the non limiting illustrative web user interface an operator can send a locate command request to a plurality of devices that are associated with the selected group. As each request response is processed the operator of the PMEC can view the status of each command. The location of each device may be reported back to the PMEC as GPS or other location coordinates that could be easily displayed via existing mapping applications such as Google Maps. More sophisticated maps could be used to give in building or three dimensional displays of the location of each device.

Another advantage that can be realized via the group communications can also be enhanced by the PMEC becoming the relay agent for multiparty communications. By the at least one device responding to a group text message the PMEC could replicate that information and send that to the other members of the group. This could potentially increase cost savings considering some current pricing models for message oriented communications. In one illustrative example many communications carriers charge a price for each message sent and each one received. Without the PMEC it is possible in one scenario that if one of at least a plurality of devices responds to a group message and that the at least one device would have to send a message to each other participant of the group. Having the PMEC involved would allow the initiating device to send the message once to the PMEC and have the PMEC then replicate the message potentially reducing the cost of total number of messages communicated.

In one illustrative embodiment each operator administrator may log in via the web user interface to access the services available via the console. is one non limiting example of a login page. Here credential information is captured and validated against an entity s policy information to determine who what when where and how a particular operator administrator may access the PMEC services. The credential information is also used to create an audit trail of the operator administrator s actions.

As described previously in the non limiting illustrative embodiment allows for an authorized operator administrator to create groups of devices or users. As depicted these groups can be defined as a collection of users devices or both. This allows an entity to flexibly communicate or issue command and control message to individuals that may have more than one device. Alternatively if the devices are headless or have no user associated with it the entity can easily communicate with a subset of devices within the PMEC s domain.

Similarly and is a non limiting illustrative embodiment of web pages that enable an authorized operator administrator to add modify delete device types and carriers that enable the authorized administrator operator will used when defining user device account profile configuration information. For instance based on a specified carrier configuration may include but not limited to an email gateway information used for sending SMS information what MMS URL to use etc. Device type information may include but not limited to message limitations any transcoding that may be necessary what interface to used such as etherSMS or cellular messaging services etc. Other information can be easily envisioned by those schooled in the art.

Along with the operator administrator interface the PMEC exposes a number of API s that via a web services interface that other applications may use to exchange message oriented and or command and control information to and from devices within the PMEC s domain. This service can then be accessed by an entity s other applications including but not limited to Customer Relation Management CRM Machine to Machine M2M communications for infrastructure command and control etc. If a device user cryptographic credentials have been registered with the at least one PMEC applications can communicate securely to the intended device s and or user s .

Consider the following non limiting usage scenario a financial institution would like to send out alert information to at least one of their customers via message oriented communications due to the immediacy of the information. In many cases today an institution may send an email however access can be cumbersome. The user may not be notified of the availability of the information as they may have to log onto a website to gain access to their email etc. delaying the notification. Furthermore the exchange may take multiple steps to provide the information to the intended party. Other impediments can be easily envisioned. Instead by using the PMEC the same financial application that generated the email can send an alert to the at least one customer via alternative message oriented communication. This information can be delivered to the at least one customer s device in a secure manner. Through the web service API the application can send the PMEC via standard protocols such as Internet HTTP s the user device identification information e.g. name phone number network ID etc. along with the information to be sent. The PMEC will then generate a secure message through its cryptographic services. Once complete together with a companion product such as ProtectedSMS as described in application U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 556 635 filed ON Nov. 7 2011 entitled Secure Messaging that is installed on the at least one customer s device the PMEC will then forward the secure message to the at least one customer s device via its message router service sending the message via the at least one gateway service such as etherSMS . Alternate paths may also be available and or used in coincidence with communications that may consider least cost routing etc. Because ProtectedSMS also allows for messages to require a read return receipt the initiating application can then determine if the message being sent was at least received by the intended at least one customer device and the operator opened the message.

Alternatively a similar scenario can be easily envisioned using the PMEC s group functionality to exchange message oriented communications securely with a plurality of customers devices.

The PMEC can also interface with additional gateway services such as those provided by etherSMS to enable communications via cellular wireless SMS channels or within the etherSMS network via other Internet base messaging services Twitter Skype Peep etc. or directly to cellular wireless carriers networks based on its configuration and or infrastructure available.

While the technology herein has been described in connection with exemplary illustrative non limiting embodiments the invention is not to be limited by the disclosure. The invention is intended to be defined by the claims and to cover all corresponding and equivalent arrangements whether or not specifically disclosed herein.

