---

title: Method and system for detection of user-initiated events utilizing automatic content recognition
abstract: Systems, methods and/or techniques for detection of user-initiated events in relation to a media device are described, for example utilizing a content recognition system. A method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. The method may include receiving user interaction with the media device and the user interaction causes initiation of a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device. The method may include receiving one or more interactive events from a content recognition system in response to the user interaction. The method may comprise executing the one or more interactive events to affect video content that is playing on the media device, and display one or more overlay windows corresponding to the affected video content. One or more video fingerprints that correspond to the affected video content may be communicated to the content recognition system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015745&OS=09015745&RS=09015745
owner: Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
number: 09015745
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121228
---
This application makes reference to claims priority to and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 596 012 filed on Feb. 7 2012.

Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to digital audio video content recognition. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for detection of user initiated events utilizing automatic content recognition.

Smart or connected televisions TVs may receive data from data networks that allow a viewer to access broadcast digital content and also receive multimedia content. Smart TVs may also be capable of receiving and communicating information over the internet.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for detection of user initiated events utilizing automatic content recognition substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may be found in a method and system for detection of user initiated events utilizing automatic content recognition ACR . Various embodiments of the present invention may enable the detection of user initiated events utilizing a system that is operable to perform automatic content recognition and that may utilize an abstraction layer. Various embodiments of the invention may utilize ACR techniques described herein to detect user interaction with a media device and or a unit for example a set top box associated with or included within the media device. In response to detecting certain user interactions the content recognition system may cause an interactive event to be communicated to and be executed on the media device. A viewer may interact with the interactive event which may affect the operation of the media device and or the unit for example a set top box.

In various embodiments of the invention a method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. The method may comprise receiving user interaction with the media device wherein the user interaction causes the initiation of a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device. One or more interactive events may be received from a content recognition system in response to the user interaction. The one or more interactive events may be executed in order to affect video content that is playing on the media device and one or more overlay windows may be displayed. The method may comprise communicating to the content recognition system one or more video fingerprints that correspond to video content that has been affected by the user interaction. The content recognition system may communicate the one or more interactive events to the media device in response to detecting a match with the one or more video fingerprints. The one or more interactive events may be executed at a time that is synchronized to the user interaction with the media device.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the video content as affected by the user interaction may determine the one or more interactive events that are communicated from the content recognition system. For example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to fast forward through one or more commercials. The one or more interactive events when executed may display an incentive to watch the one or more commercials and may display an option whether to continue fast forwarding. The incentive to watch the one or more commercials may be an overlay window that informs viewers of a scavenger hunt game and the scavenger hunt game may be operable to allow viewers to earn points by indicating items in the one or more commercials. In another example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to pause a program and the one or more interactive events when executed may display entertainment or advertisements while the video content is paused. In another example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to tune to an unauthorized or blocked channel or program and the one or more interactive events when executed may block the media device from displaying an unauthorized program and may tune to an alternative channel.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the method may comprise executing the one or more interactive events to accept user response data from a user. The user response data affects video content that plays on the media device. In another exemplary embodiment user preferences may determine the type of the one or more interactive events that are communicated from the content recognition system.

Various embodiments of the invention may utilize a content recognition system comprising one or more servers. The content recognition system may be operable to detect one or more matches between one or more video fingerprints corresponding to video content playing on a media device and one or more video fingerprints corresponding to video content for example archived content in the content recognition system. The content recognition system may be operable to detect user interaction with the media device by analyzing the one or more fingerprint matches. The user interaction may initiate a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device. In response to the user interaction the one or more servers of the content recognition system may be operable to communicate one or more interactive events to the media device. The one or more interactive events may be operable to execute on the media device and may be operable to control video content that plays on the media device. In some embodiments of the invention the content recognition system comprises an event trigger module that is operable to indicate to the one or more servers the one or more interactive events that should be communicated to the media device.

In some embodiments of the invention the content recognition system comprises an event trigger module that is operable to indicate to the one or more servers one or more types of video playback situations related to video content playing on the media device that should trigger an interactive event. The types of video playback situations may comprise one or more of the following when the video content starts stops pauses fast forwards reverses and changes playback speed etc. In some embodiments of the invention the one or more interactive events may be adapted to present an incentive to watch a commercial if a viewer initiates a feature that is operable to fast forward the video content. In some embodiments the one or more interactive events may be adapted to entertain a viewer or present advertisements while the video content is paused.

In some embodiments of the invention the content recognition system may be operable to implement parental controls by detecting user interaction with the media device by detecting the initiation of a feature that is operable to tune to an unauthorized channel or program. In this regard the one or more interactive events may be adapted to block the media device from displaying an unauthorized program and may tune to an alternative channel.

The real time event manager may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to manage real time events based on inputs provided by one or more sources. For example the real time event manager may be operable to manage real time events provided by an event trigger module that may assign interactive event IDs to live network programming. The real time event manager may also manage interactive events interactive event IDs assigned to archived network programming provided by an event trigger module which may be prepared by a component that analyzes and archives video segments. A network time protocol NTP server may be utilized to provide synchronization of multiple fingerprint servers utilizing multiple fingerprint technologies. Moreover the real time event manager may be operable to trigger interactive events in legacy systems and or in web based systems.

The real time event manager may be operable to receive one or more inputs from an event trigger module and generate based on those inputs the interactive event identifiers IDs that can be communicated to the fingerprint servers where they can be associated with or assigned to the video fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers . The real time event manager may be operable to communicate the interactive event IDs to a television system e.g. legacy system and or to a web system. The interactive event identifiers may be utilized in the television system and or in the web system to trigger interactive events. Moreover the communication of the interactive event identifiers may be based on one or more of an EBIF an HTTP live streaming HLS a satellite network protocol or some other protocol.

In an embodiment of the invention the real time event manager may be operable to generate one or more signals that provide instructions to the fingerprint servers to enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. The instructions may be related to information that is to be generated and or provided to the end user devices for network television station identification. The instructions may indicate the type of information that is to be provided to the end user devices and or when such information is to be provided. In some instances a portion of the ACR system other than the real time event manager or in conjunction with the real time event manager may generate the signals for providing instructions to the fingerprint servers .

The fingerprint servers may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to handle fingerprinting and fingerprint communications to the fingerprint matching systems . Since each vendor or television manufacturer is likely to utilize its own fingerprint technology each of the fingerprint servers may be a dedicated server for each of the fingerprint technologies supported by the system . In some embodiments of the invention a portion of one or more fingerprint servers may be operable to perform video fingerprinting while a portion may be operable to perform audio fingerprinting. Fingerprint technologies from multiple vendors may utilize different computations to perform fingerprinting of video and or audio frames. For example each fingerprint technology may utilize a specific set of algorithms parameters operations and or data processing methods for example.

In an embodiment of the invention the fingerprint servers may be operable to receive one or more signals from the real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system to enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 730 422 discloses an exemplary method and system for logo identification utilizing ACR in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The instructions may be utilized to determine and or provide locations to the end user devices to take fingerprints of the video content being displayed on a viewing screen. In some instances at least a portion of the fingerprinting locations may be provided by the real time event manager and or by another portion of the ACR system through the instructions received by the fingerprint servers . In other instances the fingerprinting locations may be determined by the fingerprint servers based on locally and or remotely stored information. Each fingerprinting location may comprise coordinates in a video frame e.g. x coordinates y coordinates that indicate a particular region in the video frame to fingerprint.

The fingerprint servers may provide the fingerprinting locations for communication to the end user devices for example in the form of fingerprint profiles. The fingerprint profiles may comprise fingerprinting locations and or other information to be utilized by an end user device for ACR fingerprinting. In some instances the fingerprint profiles may be generated by the fingerprint servers in response to the instructions received. In other instances the fingerprint profiles comprising the fingerprinting locations may be received by the fingerprint servers from the real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system . The fingerprint profile of a particular end user device may be updated based on an indication that additional and or different locations may be needed during fingerprinting to identify the network television station logo or symbol being displayed on a viewing screen at the end user device . The update may be generated by the corresponding fingerprint server and then communicated to the end user device or may be received by the corresponding RTFS from the real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system and then communicated to the end user device .

The indication that a fingerprint profile update may be needed may be the result of network operations that recognize that certain content is being broadcast by several network television stations concurrently e.g. State of the Union address . In such instances the fingerprinting locations being utilized may not analyze the region in a video frame where the logo of the network television station is displayed. Thus providing additional fingerprinting locations in this region may enable detection and identification of the logo and consequently of the network television station.

The indication that a fingerprint profile update may be needed may also be the result of feedback provided by an end user device . The feedback may indicate for example that the content being displayed has been identified but that the content may have originated in any one of several sources and the particular source of the content has not been identified. In such instances the fingerprinting locations being utilized may not analyze the region in a video frame where the logo of the network television station is displayed. Thus providing additional fingerprinting locations in this region may enable detection and identification of the logo and consequently of the source of the content.

In some instances the fingerprint profile and or the fingerprint profile update received by an end user device may comprise information that indicates to the end user device that any additional fingerprinting locations may be utilized automatically when the source e.g. network television station of a particular content is not initially identified.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the fingerprint servers may be operable to communicate fingerprint profiles and or fingerprint profile updates to the end user devices through the fingerprint matching systems . Feedback and or queries from the end user devices may be received by the fingerprint servers for processing. The fingerprint servers may in turn communicate information corresponding to the feedback and or queries from the end user devices to the real time event manager and or to another portion of the ACR system for further processing.

The fingerprint matching systems may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable for matching fingerprints produced by the fingerprint servers with fingerprints produced by the end user devices . Each of the fingerprint matching systems may correspond to a particular ACR or fingerprint technology. In this regard each of the fingerprint matching systems may be supported by a third party such as a TV manufacturer for example. Additionally one or more of the fingerprint matching systems may be a hosted service for example cloud computing etc. which may be accessible via the Internet.

The fingerprint servers may be operable to send fingerprints interactive event IDs and other information to their corresponding fingerprint vendors fingerprint matching systems through one or more networks e.g. wireline networks optical hybrid fiber coaxial HFC wireless networks and or by utilizing one or more communication protocols. Communication between the fingerprint servers and the fingerprint matching systems may occur through one or more wireless and or wireline communication links. The communication links described above may support one or more communication protocols. Accordingly the fingerprint servers and the fingerprint matching systems may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces to enable the use of the appropriate communication protocols.

The fingerprint matching systems may be operable to compare fingerprints produced by the end user devices with fingerprints provided by the fingerprint servers. When a match occurs a fingerprint matching system may indicate that an interactive event is to take place in an end user device . These interactive events may allow a viewer of an end user device to be presented with information on the screen or display of an end user device such as advertisements prompts to change channels or playback modes notifications of coupons games and the like and may allow a viewer to interact with the information presented.

Communications between the fingerprint matching systems and the end user devices may occur through one or more communication links networks e.g. wireline networks optical hybrid fiber coaxial HFC wireless networks for example network and or by utilizing one or more communication protocols. The communication links and or networks described above may support one or more communication protocols. Accordingly the fingerprint matching systems and the end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces to enable the use of the appropriate communication protocols.

The application server may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store or host or contain address information related to the location of one or more applications or interactive events. It should be understood that a system for example system may include more than one application server even though some of the figures and descriptions throughout this disclosure may refer to a single application server in order to describe certain aspects of the systems and methods of this disclosure. It should be understood that in some setups an end user device may have an application installed prior to the time that a fingerprint match is detected related to that device. In this setup the application server may push an interactive event that displays and or executes on the pre installed application. In other setups and or situations the application itself may be pushed to the end user device and the end user device may be operable to handle and or execute the application and interactive event. Various configurations may exist with respect to the end user devices and the application server such that portions of the code which may be operable to execute an interactive event on an end user device may be pre installed on the end user device. Therefore throughout this disclosure when reference is made to an application or an interactive event being pushed or communicated from an application server it may be understood that the application or one or more portions thereof may be pre installed on the end user device. Alternatively the application server may push the application including the interactive event together.

The application server may be operable to receive from an end user device information related to an interactive event ID. The information may be provided by the end user device in response to a match between a fingerprint that may be taken and or generated by the end user device and a fingerprint that may be taken and or generated by a corresponding fingerprint server . In some embodiments of the present disclosure the application server may receive information related to an interactive event ID directly from a fingerprint matching system instead of or in addition to receiving information from an end user device . Thus in this regard the end user device may prompt the application server for content or the application server may push the content to the end user device without being prompted by the end user device. Therefore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to the end user device requesting content from an application server i.e. a pull the application server may actually push the content to the end user device and vice versa with respect to references to application servers pushing content i.e. the end user device may instead request content from the application servers .

The event trigger module may comprise servers computers devices user interfaces and the like that allow interaction between an administrative user such as a partner or an event creator director etc. and the system . Alternative or in conjunction the event trigger module may allow for interaction with a component that archives and analyzes video segments. In one example the event trigger module may include an end user computer and peripheral devices and or interfaces such that an individual such as a partner or an event creator director etc. may communicate with the system via the computer and peripherals and or interfaces. The event trigger module may include peripherals and or interfaces whereby a partner that is responsible for creating event content that appears on end user devices may create interactive events that synchronize to a live or replayed broadcast. In another embodiment of the invention the event trigger module may include or be in communication with a component that archives and analyzes video segments such that interactive events may be assigned to archived video segments. For example a component may analyze and store an episode of a TV show and may determine when in the episode or related commercial an interactive event is to take place for example when to push a commercial to a media device . The event trigger module may then communicate with an interactive timeline archive to associate event IDs which can then be communicated to a real time event manager to assign those interactive event IDs to fingerprints associated with live or replayed programming.

In operation once the event trigger module communicates with the real time event manager to assign interactive event IDs to fingerprints associated with live or replayed programming being viewed on an end user device the real time event manager may generate and or handle event identifiers or event triggers that correspond to specific times in a program. The event identifiers may be assigned to the appropriate fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers . The real time event manager may provide synchronization to appropriately assign the event identifiers to the right spot on a video and or audio sequence.

Each of the fingerprint servers may then communicate the event identifiers generated or handled by real time event manager and the fingerprints to its corresponding one of the fingerprint matching systems . The fingerprint matching systems in turn receive fingerprints from their corresponding end user devices and try to match those fingerprints to the ones received from their corresponding fingerprint servers . When a match occurs the event identifier and or other information may be passed to the appropriate end user device and or to an application server . Based on information determined by the fingerprint matching system the end user device may obtain for example interactive information e.g. graphics text applications from the application server . There may be other actions performed by the user in connection with the interactive event and or other information presented or produced in connection with the interactive event.

Once a match occurs in one of the fingerprint matching systems and the end user device and or the application server obtains the appropriate information from its corresponding fingerprint vendor the application server then sends the appropriate content such as an application or interactive event to the end user device that corresponds to the interactive event ID. The end user device may communicate interactive event ID information to the application server in order to request content or content may be pushed by the application server to an end user device without the device requesting it. In some embodiments in order for an end user device to accept content from an application server the device may have to be logged in to an appropriate network connected application web page or the like. Additionally the end user device may need to have an appropriate ACR service running on the device.

The end user devices may comprise a plurality of devices such as connected TVs connected TV with paired handheld and or mobile devices also referred to as second screen devices such as smartphones PDAs and tablets for example. End user devices may also be referred to as media devices where an end user device may be a media device that is utilized by a user to communicate with a system such as an ACR system. The End user devices may also be referred to as viewer devices display devices or ACR based devices for example. In a particular end user device setup for example a setup in a viewer s home one or more devices may be connected to a system . Each device in a setup may be connected to the system via a network or via a separate end user device that is part of the same setup. For example a viewer may have a setup that includes a smart TV that connects to the system via the network and the viewer may also have a tablet or other second screen device that communicates with the smart TV and allows the viewer to interact with content that is displayed on the smart TV. In some instances the content displayed on such a second screen device may coincide with the content that is displayed on the main end user device and this coincided content may allow a user or viewer to interact with content displayed on the main end user device in a synchronized manner. In instances when a secondary or paired device that supports a particular fingerprint technology is used that device may also be able to communicate with the corresponding fingerprint match i.e. as in the case of audio system that supports the compatible fingerprint technology. This may in effect comprise a manual pairing with presented content on the primary screen i.e. TV and as such may operate in a similar manner to pairing directly with the smart TV.

Each of the end user devices may comprise an ACR module . The ACR module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to provide various functionality and or services comprising synchronous event manager functionality fingerprint capture services logo detection and or user initiated event detection.

An end user device may include or be in communication with a media unit provided or supported by a television network or service provider such as for example a set top box gateway computer tuner other digital video device etc. The media unit may read and or analyze a network broadcast feed as shown in for example in order to display programming on the end user device . The media unit may include a digital video recorder DVR component that is operable to record live programming for later replay or playback by a viewer sometimes referred to as on demand viewing. An ACR system for example system may be operable to analyze video being played back on an end user device via a DVR the same as it analyzes live programming. In this respect an ACR system may analyze video being played back via a DVR generate fingerprints of the video and send the fingerprints to a fingerprint matching system for example systems . A media unit and a smart TV end user device may also be configured and operate such that the smart TV may communicate commands to the media unit. For example a smart TV with proper authentication for example may be operable to instruct a media unit to change channels perform video playback functions perform guide functions and the like. A media unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces and may utilize appropriate communication protocols to interact directly with a network for example the network . In this regard a media unit may send data via a network or may receive commands via a network.

End user devices for example utilizing an ACR service API s an application framework and other interface circuitry software and the like may be operable to present applications to a viewer. For example an end user device may be operable to present text including customized formatting including new lines pages fonts and the like window borders wrappings and other graphics. Additionally an end user device may be operable to present customized overlay windows for example designed by third parties. An end user device may be adapted to present brand graphics and messages sponsorship text and logos graphs and other feedback images for example user response results from a poll.

The end user devices may be operable to receive and utilize a fingerprint profile and or a fingerprint profile update and to take fingerprints in a pre determined number of locations in a video frame. Each fingerprinting location may be defined by a set of coordinates that describe a region in the video frame where a fingerprint of the video content is to be taken. The end user devices may be operable to receive a series of fingerprint profiles and or fingerprint profile updates and may be operable to adjust ACR fingerprinting accordingly.

The abstraction layer may refer to for example the ability of an ACR system to assign the same event identifiers to different sets of video fingerprints that are generated by different video fingerprint technologies. That is by appropriately timing the assignment of event identifiers to multiple sequences of video fingerprints that are generated from the same video content but with different video fingerprinting technologies a single ACR system is able to support video fingerprinting technologies from multiple vendors. This approach allows the ACR system to be both flexible and scalable with respect to fingerprint technology vendors. Additional details of an exemplary ACR system that utilizes an abstraction layer may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 730 352 filed on Dec. 28 2012 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In one setup a single smart TV device may be connected to an ACR system. In another setup multiple devices may be connected to an ACR system for example where one device such as a smart TV may be the primary end user device and one or more hand held devices such as tablets PDAs or smart phones may be second screen devices. A second screen device associated with the connected TVs may be a tablet e.g. iPad Samsung Galaxy etc. smartphone e.g. iPhone Android etc. or other like device for example. In this setup the second screen devices may either be in communication with the network directly or they may be in communication with the network via the primary device or both. It should be understood that in any particular setup not all of the devices need to be ACR enabled devices. In some examples one of the devices may an ACR enabled device and the other may not be ACR capable but may still interact with the ACR enabled device. Therefore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to an ACR based device in a setup it should be understood that not all of the devices need to be ACR capable. Devices in a setup may also be referred to as media devices. Furthermore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to a single end user device in a setup it should be understood that the setup may contain multiple end user devices and vice versa with respect to references to multiple end user devices. In another setup hand held devices which may in some situations operate as second screen devices may act as one or more primary end user devices and optionally one or more secondary end user devices. In this setup one or more hand held devices may receive broadcast feed content and may also allow one or more users to interact with interactive events sent over the network .

An end user device for example devices . . . may include or be in communication with a media unit for example set top boxes . . . . The media unit may have been provided by or be supported by a television network or service provider. The media unit may read and or analyze a network broadcast feed as shown in in order to display programming on the end user device. In many respects the media unit of may be similar to the media unit described in conjunction with for example. Viewers may interact with the media unit via an associated remote control or optionally via a hand held device. For example a viewer may interact with the media unit to start stop fast forward reverse and or pause content that is playing on the end user device. The viewer may also interact with the media unit to select or tune in to a channel to watch or to change channels. The viewer may also interact with the media unit to view manage select and or watch and or replay recorded programming and in this regard the viewer may interact with the media unit to start stop fast forward reverse and or pause the recorded content that is playing on the end user device. Media units such as set top boxes may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to present viewers with many more options and perform many more functions and or operations some of which may affect how the connected end user device operates. It should be understood that this disclosure contemplates various types of media units for example set top boxes gateways computers tuners other digital video devices etc. not just set top boxes. Therefore throughout this disclosure whenever reference is made to a set top box it should be understood that other types of media units are contemplated as well.

A set top box for example unit and a smart TV end user device such as end user device may also be configured and operable such that the smart TV may communicate commands to the set top box. For example a smart TV with proper authentication for example may be operable to instruct a set top box to change channels or video playback modes perform guide functions and the like. Alternatively or in addition a set top box may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces and may utilize appropriate communication protocols to interact directly with a network for example network . In this regard a set top box may send data via a network or may receive commands via a network. For example a remote system for example an ACR system may send commands via a network to a smart TV and provided that the ACR system possesses proper authentication may cause the smart TV to change channels either directly on the TV itself or indirectly via an API exposing an interface between the TV and STB e.g. IR function or video playback modes perform guide functions or other operations.

The End user devices for example devices . . . may utilize the same video and or audio fingerprinting technology utilized by the associated fingerprint servers and supported by the associated fingerprint matching system vendors. The fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the Internet for the viewer devices. These services may comprise video and or audio fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send fingerprints to the fingerprint vendor for matching.

As shown in a variety of end user devices . . . may be operable to properly execute applications served by application server by way of for example an API such as the system API and or vendor specific interfaces . . . . A standardized API may be utilized to reduce the number of APIs being utilized. In one example a vendor for example vendor may acquire the system API and then implement the system API along with additional vendor specific interfacing into the devices manufactured by the vendor. In this example the system API and the interface for vendor may be implemented fully or substantially within devices manufactured by vendor . In another example a vendor for example vendor may provide a vendor specific interface or API such as interface to the operators and or directors of application server or other parties that are responsible for creating applications and or interactive events . In this example operators directors or other parties may implement an API for each vendor in which case the vendor interface and system API may be implemented within the application server or related system components utilized to create and store applications.

API s that allow interfacing with various systems and sub systems such as systems or modules from different vendors may be provided. For example an API may enable an end user device to perform real time downloading and invocation of applications from the application server . Additionally API s and or vendor interfaces may establish a single framework that can be leveraged for various applications. For example the framework may include functions that facilitate user response data to multiple locations for example user response data could be sent to multiple distinct locations and or servers the address of which may be maintained by the system or network content provider. In another example the framework may enable the invocation of overlay windows and applications and may facilitate data communication between multiple applications and or overlay windows and between applications and an external entity for example a third party service. In another example the framework may enable the communication of content data and other information to and from second screen devices.

End user devices for example devices . . . may comprise an ACR service that enables the device to perform one or more functions that may allow the end user device to operate with or communicate with the ACR system and may allow the end user device to execute one or more applications and or interactive events. In some examples the ACR service may be active and running directly on connected devices whenever the devices are operating or communicating with the system and the ACR service may invoke an application framework which may include system API s. The ACR service may be operable to listen for or detect actionable events for example interactive events and then act upon these events according to rules which may be defined in a corresponding interface definition. The ACR service may be operable to receive and or collect user responses in response to an interactive event for example and communicate corresponding response data to an application service or external entity such as a server service URL or the like.

In the example shown in the event trigger module may indicate to the application server which applications and or interactive events the application server should push to network connected end user devices when certain content and or content playback situations indications appears on the screen of the end user device . The event trigger module may select appropriate applications and or interactive events that are synchronized with time points in the live or replayed content being played on the end user device . In this regard the event trigger module may communicate interactive events that correspond to points in live or replayed content such that the real time event manager may be operable to trigger interactive events via a fingerprint server and fingerprint matching system in the end user device . When an interactive event is triggered in an end user device for example device the device may send a request for data via a network to an application server . Note that the triggered events may have specific parameters defining their operation during trick modes i.e. pause fast forward rewind slow etc .

The application server s may be operable to handle data sent from an end user device as well as data sent from various components and modules within the event trigger module . When the application server receives a signal and or request and an interactive event ID from an end user device the application server may send application data to one or more end user devices via a network . The application server may send application data to an end user device in response to receiving a signal and an interactive event ID from the device for example. The application server and or the event trigger module may also be operable to integrate with a variety of back end systems for example to integrate external application event content servers not shown into the system.

It should be understood that application data for example application data relates to one or more interactive events and or applications. Therefore when a description herein refers to a module communicating an application or an interactive event it should be understood that the application and or the interactive event may actually be sent in the form of one or more data packets. One or more data packets related to an application and or interactive event may generally be referred to as application data for example application data . The application data may comprise but need not be limited to text banners shapes graphics overlays sidebars applications widgets and or video for example. The application data may also comprise computer code applications or other interactive elements that when executed by an end user device may present content to a viewer and allow a viewer to interact with an interactive element. The application data may be synchronized with content that is currently or was recently displayed on the end user device. In one example when the application data is sent to an end user device the end user device may display an overlay window that takes up at least a portion of the full display .

In one example implementation of the techniques described herein for example as shown in a viewer may be watching a replay of a television show using a DVR feature in a set top box for example where the video of the television show is displaying on the screen of the end user device . In this example the television show that the viewer is watching may have previously been analyzed and archived by a component associated with or included in the event trigger module . The component may have determined when in the show an interactive event should take place or what types of video playback situations should trigger a particular interactive event e.g. trick mode options .

An ACR system for example one similar to the system described in reference to may be operable to detect when a user initiates an event related to video that plays on an end user device. For example an ACR system may be operable to detect when a user starts stops fast forwards reverses and or pauses a program that is playing on the end user device. An ACR system may also be operable to detect when a user selects or tunes to a channel or changes channels. An ACR system may detect these and other user initiated events by utilizing the ACR techniques described herein. In addition to being operable to detect when video displayed on an end user device matches one or more reference video segments an ACR system may also be operable to detect when video displayed on an end user device is playing back in a different manner than one or more reference video segments. For example the ACR system may detect that a video is being played back at different speed or in a different direction for example. An ACR system may also be operable to detect when video displayed on an end user device is playing back in a different manner than one or more reference video segments by detecting images that display on the screen of an end user device related to content playback commands. For example if a box and or icons appear on the end user device when a user chooses to fast forward a recorded program an ACR system may detect the box and or icons to determine that a viewer is attempting to fast forward a program. For example the viewer may initiate a feature that is operable to fast forward through one or more commercials. In addition to or in conjunction with ACR techniques an ACR system may detect user initiated events by accepting and analyzing signals sent via the end user device and or a related unit such as a set top box over a network.

Referring to the example illustrated in a viewer may be watching a replay of a television show where the video of the television show is displaying on the screen of the end user device . The event trigger module and or associated components may have determined what types of video playback situations should trigger a particular interactive event. For example the event trigger module may have determined that if during or just before the first commercial in a recorded program the user attempts to fast forward an interactive event should be initiated. The screen illustrates an exemplary video frame that is related to commercial that a viewer may encounter and attempt to fast forward past. In some embodiments of the invention the ACR system may detect that the video displaying on the screen of the end user device is playing back at a greater speed than an archived reference video which indicates that the viewer is attempting to fast forward . The ACR system including a fingerprint server and a fingerprint matching system may then initiate an interactive event with an associated interactive event ID to execute on the end user device . The end user device may then request the interactive event and or the application that may be associated with the interactive event ID from the application server . The application server may then send the appropriate application data to the end user device via a network . The device may then display the interactive event application.

The interactive event displayed via an overlay window for example may be designed for example to persuade or incentivize a viewer to continue to watch a commercial by informing the viewer of useful information or by allowing the viewer to interact with a contest program feature or the like. In one example as shown in a scavenger hunt contest may allow a viewer to collect points by viewing and identifying items that appear on the screen of an end user device during a commercial. When the viewer attempts to fast forward a commercial the ACR system may initiate an interactive event that displays an overlay window informing the viewer that they can earn scavenger hunt points or other types of incentives for this commercial. The viewer may then have the option to continue fast forwarding or interact while fast forwarding as this will be controlled by the STB while the ACR module may be resident on the smart TV itself or to stop fast forwarding and watch the commercial. The playback of the program including any fast forwarding may be paused until the user selects and option. This may happen if the ACR enabled smart TV can communicate with the STB and the viewer has permitted this access. A scavenger hunt contest like the one contemplated by may be associated with an online service that allows a user to collect points across multiple programs and optionally to compare the number of points earned with other members of the online service. The user s points and other information related to the scavenger hunt contest may be associated with a user account on a system that supports a plurality of user accounts. The end user device may be adapted to communicate via a network with such an online service to store point totals and retrieve information about other members.

Other types of contests programs features or the like may be displayed to a viewer instead of or in addition to a scavenger hunt contest. For example overlay window may inform a viewer that the commercial contains information about valuable coupons or optionally that the commercials include trailers for exciting new movies.

The end user device associated set top box and or the ACR system may be adapted to allow viewers to set preferences related to interactive events and related to content that is displayed on the end user devices. For example a viewer may maintain a list of movies or genres that may be of interest to the viewer. User preferences may indicate that interactive events should only notify the viewer of movie trailers that are categorized accordingly. In another example user preferences may indicate that no overlay windows associated with the fast forward feature should be displayed. In another example user preferences may indicate that no overlay windows should be displayed at all. The end user device associated set top box and or the ACR system may include a mode or setting whereby in one or more situations user preferences may be overridden. If such a mode or setting is active an overlay window may be presented on an end user device even if a user setting indicates an opposite preference.

The example depicted in includes a two device devices setup. In this example once a viewer sees an overlay window on the screen of their end user device device and or the viewer may interact with the related application or interactive element via a second screen device such as a PDA tablet or smart phone. In this example the user may have an application installed on the second screen device that enables the user to see displays information and interactive choices that coincide with the overlay window on the screen of the end user device . The viewer may then select a choice or otherwise indicate a response by interacting with the second screen device for example by pressing on the screen with a stylus or the viewer s finger or by pressing buttons on the second screen device.

As one example depicted in it can be seen that the screen of second screen device may display interactive choices that coincide with the choices displayed in overlay window . A viewer may then indicate a response using the second screen device for example by selecting a button labeled No. In the example of when the viewer selects No on the second screen device the same choice appears as selected in the overlay window . The second screen device may communicate the viewer s response to the end user device or directly to upstream application servers by a variety of connections such as a wired connection and or a wireless connection e.g. WIFI Bluetooth infrared and the like . Other setups may include a single end user device for example device . In these setups a viewer may interact with the related application or interactive element via a remote control or other interface associated with the end user device

Referring to for example purposes a viewer may indicate a response that he does not want to fast forward through a commercial see the No option indicated on overlay window . For example the viewer may be interested in participating in a scavenger hunt contest and may choose to watch the commercials in order to look for items that display in the commercials to gain points. In this example if the viewer selects No the commercials may resume playing back on the end user device . This may occur if the ACR enabled smart TV communicates directly with the STB DVR. In most scenarios this may not be the case. The viewer will explicitly have to stop fast forwarding if they wish to participate in the game.

In the example depicted in a viewer may have selected No in response to an overlay window that may have been displayed or presented when the viewer attempted to fast forward a commercial. When the viewer selected the No option which may have indicated that the viewer was not sure he wanted to fast forward the commercials may have resumed playing back on the end user device although in most cases the viewer will have to explicitly stop fast forwarding. In this example the viewer may have decided to watch the commercials in order to participate in a scavenger hunt contest where a user for example notices and indicates items displayed on the end user device. In the example depicted in a user may have noticed an item such as a power outlet which may have appeared in the background of a commercial displayed on the screen of an end user device . The user may indicate an item that was noticed using a hand held device for example device or a remote control or other interface associated with end user device . For example the display of a hand held device may coincide with the content that is displayed on the screen or could permit drawing and or highlighting of that content on the end user device . The hand held device may be operable to allow a user to touch or circle noticed items using a finger or a pointer stylus or the like. If a user discovers and indicates an item that qualifies for points in a scavenger hunt contest an overlay window may display on the screen informing the viewer that one or more points were earned.

If a viewer responds to an interactive event that requires data to be sent to a remote system user response data may be transmitted via a network to such a remote system for example an ACR system or other system server or the like. The remote system for example an ACR system may be operable to receive and handle user response data. The user response data may comprise but need not be limited to answers to multiple choice questions text responses contest point updates and the like. In one example user response data may be sent to the same application server similar to application server of see that transmitted the application data and or interactive event to the end user device . However in some embodiments of the invention the end user device may be operable to transmit response data to other servers and devices in addition to or instead of an application server.

The exemplary implementation of the techniques described herein as shown and described in relation to is only one example. The ACR techniques described herein may be applied to other situations and may be utilized to initiate other interactive events.

In one situation a viewer may be watching a television show either live or replayed where the video of the television show is displaying on the screen of an end user device. Referring to for explanation purposes only the event trigger module may have determined that if a show is paused utilizing DVR features for example incorporated into a set top box an interactive event should be initiated. For example the ACR system may detect that the video that is displayed or presented on the screen of the end user device is playing back at a slower speed or paused completely than an archived reference video which indicates that the viewer has paused the show . The ACR system the fingerprint matching system and associated components may then initiate an interactive event with an associated interactive event ID to execute on the end user device . The invocation of the event may be performed locally on the device as the detection of the trick mode i.e. pause fast forward rewind will in most cases be performed there as well. The end user device may then request the interactive event and or application associated with the interactive event ID from the application server . The application server may then send the appropriate application data to the end user device via a network . The device may then display the interactive event application.

The interactive event when executed by the end user device may display an overlay window that may be synchronized with the user initiated event for example a pause a show. The overlay window may take up a portion of the screen or the whole screen . The interactive event may be designed to entertain a viewer while the show is paused. For example the interactive event may be a game quiz or other type of entertainment. The interactive event and end user device s may be adapted to accept user response data from a viewer and optionally communicate user response data to a remote system.

In another example while a show is paused the ACR system may initiate a commercial and or advertisement to display on the screen of the end user device . Such commercials and or advertisements may or may not be interactive. In some embodiments of the invention the ACR system maintains an archive of time relevant commercials that may be pushed to end user devices at certain times or during certain playback situations during a program. In some situations commercials may be relevant and valuable to a network for a limited amount of time for example 7 days. In some situations a television network or other content provider may only get credit and or money for commercials that are played to consumers within a certain number of days. In this regard it may be beneficial for a content provider to utilize an ACR system and a database to maintain a set of time relevant commercials. An ACR system may detect when end user devices are paused for example and may push relevant commercials to end user devices. In other examples an ACR system may detect when a user may be watching an older recorded program for example when the commercials begin to play and the ACR system may push time relevant commercials to replace stale or less valuable commercials.

In another situation the ACR techniques described herein may be applied to implement parental controls. For example a child may be watching a television show either live or replayed where the video of the television show is displaying on the screen of an end user device. Referring to the event trigger module may have determined that if a viewer attempts to tune to a specific unauthorized channel or program an interactive event should be initiated. For example a viewer may initiate a feature that is operable to tune to channels and the content recognition system may be operable to detect the channel that the viewer is attempting to tune to. Unauthorized channels or programs may be for example pornographic channels violent channels and other channels that are not appropriate for children or may have been blocked for some other reason. For example the ACR system may detect that the video of the new channel or program displaying on the screen of the end user device matches archived reference video that has been flagged as an unauthorized channel or program or it may use a variant of logo and or guide detection to determine the channel number and compare against a list of prohibited channels for a given service provider. Alternative or in addition the ACR system may detect other features displayed on the screen to detect an unauthorized channel or program such as a channel and or program information bar along the bottom of the screen. Alternative or in addition a set top box may transmit information to the ACR to system to indicate the channel program as being unauthorized. The ACR system and optionally a fingerprint matching system may then initiate an interactive event with an associated interactive event ID to execute on the end user device . The end user device may then request the interactive event and or application associated with the interactive event ID from the application server . The application server may then send the appropriate application data to the end user device via a network . The device may then display the interactive event and or application.

The interactive event when executed by the end user device may display an overlay window that is synchronized with the user initiated event for example tuning to an unauthorized channel program . The overlay window may be overlaid or displayed on at least a portion of the screen . The interactive event may be designed to block the video and or audio of the unauthorized program and or prevent the viewer from tuning to the unauthorized channel. For example the interactive event may display an overlay window that informs the viewer that they are attempting to access an unauthorized channel and or program and may optionally provide the viewer with alternative options. For example if the overlay window may provide the viewer with an option to tune to a cartoon channel instead. In some embodiments of the invention the interactive event may cause the end user device and or set top box to tune to an alternative channel automatically. Alternatively or in conjunction with presenting a viewer with alternative channel options an interactive event may display advertisements for example advertisements targeting children. In one example the interactive event may be operable to display advertisements that take up the majority or all of the screen such that the content of the unauthorized channel program cannot be seen by the viewer.

At step the user may interact with the interactive event and or may make a choice related to the interactive event and or video playback. For example a user may choose whether to watch the commercial or resume fast forwarding or a user may play a game that displayed while a program was paused or a user may choose to tune to an alternate channel instead of an unauthorized channel. At step the interactive event may execute to affect video content on the media device based on the user interaction. For example a commercial may be played that offers a viewer chances to earn points in a scavenger hunt game or a game may be presented until a user chooses to resume video playback or the media device may tune to an alternate channel chosen by the user. At step in some situations the interactive event may receive and or handle user response data and in some situations the media device may communicate user response data to a remote system and or server. For example if a user chooses to watch commercials to earn points in a scavenger hunt game the media device may communicate user account information and game information to a remote system.

Referring to there is shown a data processing system that may correspond to one or more components of an exemplary system for detection of user initiated events. The data processing system may comprise a processor module a memory module a network module and an input output I O interface module .

The processor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to perform the operations functions processes techniques and the like for example one or more of the operations functions processes and techniques described herein. In this regard the processor module may be operable to enable one or more components of a system for detection of user initiated events. The processor module may comprise at least one processing device . The processing device may be a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP and or other type of integrated circuit that may be utilized to perform data processing operations.

The memory module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store information utilized to enable an example dial testing and audience response system. The network module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to allow the data processing system to communicate with one or more other data processing systems. This may comprise for example other data processing systems within the same system for detection of user initiated events or other data processing systems external to the same system for detection of user initiated events. The network module may be operable to support one or more communication protocols such as wireline protocols and or wireless protocols. The I O interface module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to interact with one of more devices or other sources of interactive information such as interfaces or peripherals that allow interaction by a director and or administrator or a device that allows a computer code to be loaded into the memory module of the data processing system.

In various embodiments of the invention and referring to a method may be executed in a content recognition system comprising one or more servers that are operable to communicate with one or more media devices. At step the content recognition system may enable detecting one or more matches between one or more video fingerprints corresponding to video content playing a media device and one or more video fingerprints corresponding to video content in the content recognition system. At step the content recognition system may enable detecting user interaction with the media device by analyzing the one or more fingerprint matches. The user interaction may initiate a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device. At step the one or more servers may communicate one or more interactive events to the media device. The one or more interactive events may be operable to execute on the media device and may be operable to control video content that plays on the media device. The one or more interactive events may be synchronized to the user interaction with the media device.

In some embodiments of the invention as shown at step as a preliminary step an event trigger module in the content recognition system may indicate to the one or more servers one or more types of video playback situations related to video content that should trigger an interactive event. The event trigger module may also indicate one or more interactive events that may be communicated to the media device as a result of a video playback situation being detected. The types of video playback situations may comprise one or more of the following when the video content starts stops pauses fast forwards reverses and changes playback speed etc. In one example the one or more interactive events may be operable to present an incentive to watch a commercial if a viewer initiates a feature that is operable to fast forward the video content. As another example the one or more interactive events may be adapted to entertain a viewer or present advertisements while the video content is paused. In some embodiments the content recognition system is operable to implement parental controls and the content recognition system may detect the initiation of a feature that is operable to tune to an unauthorized channel or program. In these embodiments the one or more interactive events may be adapted to block the media device from displaying an unauthorized program and may tune to an alternative channel.

In some embodiments of the invention as shown at step as an intermediary step the content recognition system may be operable to maintain and or reference user preferences related to interactive events and the content recognition system may reference user preferences to determine types of interactive events that the content recognition system should communicate to the media device.

In various embodiments of the invention and referring to a method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. At step the media device may receive user interaction from a viewer wherein the user interaction initiates a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device. In one example the user interaction may comprise initiating a feature that is operable to fast forward through one or more commercials and the one or more interactive events when executed may present an incentive to watch the one or more commercials and may display an option whether to continue fast forwarding. In another example the user interaction may comprise initiating a feature that is operable to pause a program and the one or more interactive events when executed may present entertainment or advertisements while the video content is paused. In another example the user interaction may comprise initiating a feature that is operable to tune to an unauthorized channel or program and the one or more interactive events when executed may block the media device from displaying an unauthorized program and tune to an alternative channel.

At step the media device may generate one or more video fingerprints that correspond with video content that is playing on the media device as the video content is affected by the user interaction. At step the media device may receive one or more interactive events from a content recognition system in response to the user interaction. At step the media device may execute the one or more interactive events to affect video content that is playing on the media device and the media device may display one or more overlay windows. The displaying may occur at time that is synchronized to the video content playing on the media device. At step the media device may accept user response data from a user wherein the user response data affects video content that plays on the media device. For example a user may indicate that they do not want to fast forward through a commercial in which case the video content may resume playing back on the media device.

In various embodiments of the invention a method may be executed in a media device that is operable to play video content. The method may comprise receiving user interaction with the media device wherein the user interaction causes the initiation of a feature that affects video content that plays on the media device . The method may comprise receiving one or more interactive events from a content recognition system in response to the user interaction. The method may comprise executing the one or more interactive events to affect video content that is playing on the media device and display one or more overlay windows . The method may comprise communicating to the content recognition system one or more video fingerprints that correspond to video content that has been affected by the user interaction. The content recognition system may communicate the one or more interactive events to the media device in response to detecting a match with the one or more video fingerprints. The one or more interactive events may be executed at a time that is synchronized to the user interaction with the media device.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the video content as affected by the user interaction may determine the one or more interactive events that are communicated from the content recognition system . For example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to fast forward through one or more commercials and the one or more interactive events when executed may display an incentive to watch the one or more commercials and may display an option whether to continue fast forwarding. The incentive to watch the one or more commercials may be an overlay window that informs viewers of a scavenger hunt game and the scavenger hunt game may be operable to allow viewers to earn points by indicating items in the one or more commercials. In another example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to pause a program and the one or more interactive events when executed may display entertainment or advertisements while the video content is paused. In another example the user interaction may cause the initiation of a feature that is operable to tune to an unauthorized or blocked channel or program and the one or more interactive events when executed may block the media device from displaying an unauthorized program and may tune to an alternative channel.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the method may comprise executing the one or more interactive events to accept user response data from a user wherein the user response data affects video content that plays on the media device . In another exemplary embodiment user preferences may determine the type of the one or more interactive events that are communicated from the content recognition system.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure may provide a non transitory machine and or computer readable storage and or media having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine computer and or data processing system thereby causing the machine computer and or data processing system to perform the steps as described herein for detection of user initiated events utilizing automatic content recognition.

Accordingly the present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one machine computer and or data processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected machines computers and or data processing systems. Any kind of machine computer and or data processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods and techniques described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

