---

title: Access control list for a multi-user communication session
abstract: A system and associated methods for adding one or more invitees from a calendar event to an access control list of a multi-user communication session is disclosed. The conference application includes a social network engine, a conference server module, a session management module and a user interface engine. The social network engine hosts a multi-user communication session associated with a calendar event at the social network server. The conference server module retrieves an invitee list from a calendar application, converts the invitee list into an access control list for the multi-user communication session and stores the access control list in a cache. The session management module receives a request from one or more users to join the multi-user communication session, retrieves the access control list for the multi-user communication session from the cache and compares the one or more users against the access control list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08990329&OS=08990329&RS=08990329
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08990329
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121105
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Application No. 61 682 276 entitled Access Control List for a Multi User Communication Session filed Aug. 12 2012 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Conferencing software frequently does not support email and scheduling functions. As a result various approaches have been developed to integrate conferencing software with email and scheduling applications. The most common approach is to generate a calendar invite that links to the conference and includes a personal identification number PIN for accessing the conference. This presents multiple problems. First the email can be forwarded to other people who were not invited to the conference. Second the PIN is one more cumbersome step that discourages users from adopting the technology. Third if invitees want to invite additional participants to the conference the interplay between the conferencing software and the email and scheduling application can be cumbersome.

In some embodiments the specification describes a computer implemented method comprising receiving a first request from a first user to join a multi user communication session that is associated with a social network the first user being a member of the social network responsive to receiving the first request retrieving an invitee list from an event in a calendar application converting the invitee list into an access control list and storing the access control list in a cache determining whether the first user is on the access control list responsive to the first user being on the access control list starting the multi user communication session receiving a second request from a second user to join the multi user communication session identifying the second user as being on the access control list adding the second user to the multi user communication session ending the multi user communication session and discarding the access control list.

In some embodiments the operations further include extracting identifiers of the users from the access control list comparing a user profile of the first user to the identifiers to identify a match and responsive to determining the match confirming that the first user is on the access control list. The operations further include responsive to receiving a request from the calendaring application transmitting identifying information associated with a group in the social network wherein the multi user communication session is associated with the group in the social network. The operations further include receiving a request from the first user to add a third user to the multi communication session adding the third user to the access control list and adding the third user to the multi user communication session. The operations further include saving the access control list to a cache and discarding the access control list from the cache at an end of the multi user communication session.

In some embodiments the features further include the access control list being created anew responsive to the event recurring in the calendar application. The features further include the invitee list comprising at least one of a name an email identifier and a social network profile identifier of one or more invitees. The features further include responsive to the first user not being in the access control list further comprising denying the first user access to the multi user communication session.

The specification describes a conference application that advantageously works with a calendar application stored on a separate server to conduct a multi user communication session without the use of PINs. The conference application also smoothly adds new users to multi user communication session seamlessly instead of risking complications by involving a calendar application. Lastly because the conference application generates an access control list for each event the conference application avoids problems with recurring events that have a changing list of invitees.

In one embodiment the system includes a social network engine a session management module a conference server module and a user interface engine. The social network engine generates a social network and manages user interactions within the social network. The session management module generates a multi user communication session for the social network and instructs the user interface engine to generate graphical data for displaying the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the session management module generates a multi user communication session responsive to receiving a request from a user to initiate the multi user communication session. The session management module generates a multi user communication session by interacting with audio and video capture user devices to obtain a real time audio video synchronous communication data stream of the user. For example the session management module interfaces with a software driver stored on the user device that controls the functionality of a microphone and a video camera e.g. a webcam or forward facing camera included in the user device. In another embodiment the session management module receives a request from a first user to join the multi user communication session. The request includes at least one of a name an email identifier and a social network profile identifier associated with the first user. In another embodiment the session management module permits other users into the multi user communication session based on the access control list associated with the multi user communication session.

The conference server module retrieves an invitee list from a calendar application. For example the conference server module interfaces with an online calendar application that manages day to day activities of a user. In one embodiment the conference server module determines whether the multi user communication session has started before retrieving the invitee list. The conference server module determines the access control list for the multi user communication session responsive to retrieving the invitee list and stores the access control list in a cache. In one embodiment the conference server module updates the access control list for the multi user communication session using the invitee list. The invitee list comprises at least one of a name an email identifier and a social network profile identifier of one or more invitees. In one embodiment the conference server module converts the invitee list into the access control list by matching the identifying information e.g. an email address to user profile information for the social network.

The network may be a conventional type network wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations for example a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In one embodiment the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In another embodiment the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data for example via SMS MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail etc. While only one network is illustrated persons with ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any number of networks may be coupled to the above mentioned entities.

In one embodiment a conference application may be operable on the social network server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server can be a hardware server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. The social network server sends and receives data to and from one or more of the user devices and the calendar server via the network . The social network server also includes a social network application not pictured that can be part of the conference application or a standalone application. A social network can be any type of social structure where the users are connected by a common feature. The common feature includes relationships connections e.g. friendship family work an interest etc. The common features are provided by one or more social networking systems such as those included in the architecture including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph. In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related. Furthermore it should be understood that the social network server may be representative of one social network and that there may be multiple social networks coupled to the network each having its own server application and social graph. For example a first social network may be more directed to business networking a second may be more directed to or centered on academics a third may be more directed to local business a fourth is directed to dating and others are of general interest or a specific focus.

The user devices in are used by way of example. Although only two user devices are illustrated persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any numbers of user devices are available to any number of users . The users interact with the client devices via signal lines respectively. In one embodiment the conference application may be stored on the user device which is connected to the network via signal line . In another embodiment the conference application can be a thin client application that includes part of the conference application on the user device and part of the conference application on the social network server to add one or more invitees from a calendar event to an access control list of a multi user communication session. The user devices can be any computing device that includes a memory and a processor. For example the user devices can be a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or any other electronic device capable of accessing the network etc.

In one embodiment the user device includes a browser . The browser can be code and routines stored in the memory and executed by the processor of the user device . The browser includes any browser application that can retrieve pages hosted by a server for example the calendar server the social network server a third party server not shown etc. and can present the pages on a display device not shown on the user device . In another embodiment the browser retrieves and presents pages hosted by the user device . The term page used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any document or information resource that comprises textual elements non textual elements for example static images animated images audio video etc. interactive elements for example games buttons hyperlinks etc. scripts for example JavaScript code implementing Ajax techniques etc. metadata etc. In another embodiment the page is a web page in any file format for example HTML HTML5 XHTML XML etc. known to a person with ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment the calendar server can be any computing device such as a hardware server including a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. The calendar server sends and receives data to and from the one or more of the user devices and the social network server via the network . The calendar server also includes a calendar application .

The calendar application can be code and routines stored in the memory and executed by the processor of the calendar server for providing users with an electronic version of a calendar. The calendar application maintains calendar data for users of the calendar server on a calendar data storage not pictured . In one embodiment the calendar application processes user requests to view add and drop events on one or more dates on the electronic version of the calendar. For example an event for celebrating birthday of a friend at 7 PM on Sunday an event for a business meeting with colleagues from 12 PM to 1 PM etc. The event can be public or private.

The private event includes one or more second users as invitees invited by a first user creating the event on his or her calendar. The first user can invite the one or more second users by using at least one of a name e.g. full name nickname etc. an email identifier and a social network profile identifier e.g. a handle on the social network of the one or more second users. The one or more second users can accept or decline the invitation to the private event that is then reflected on the personal calendar of the one or more second users. In one embodiment the one or more second users can invite one or more third users to the event created by the first user. In another embodiment the calendar application also includes an option for calendar sharing where the first user can share his or her calendar with the one or more second users by specifying the one or more second users with whom the calendar can be shared. A level of permission can be assigned for each of the one or more second users gaining access to the shared calendar. For example users can be assigned read only permission or full edit control over the shared calendar. In some embodiments private events are visible on the calendar to event invitees and invisible to users that are not invited to the event.

In one embodiment the calendar application transmits a request to the conference application to generate an event for users associated with a group in the social network generated by the conference application . For example if a user wants to have a videoconference with a family group to make an announcement to family members the user can specify in the calendar application to invite members of the family group. In some embodiments the calendar application queries the conference application for identifying information for the members of the family group for example through the use of an application programming interface API .

In another embodiment once a user creates an event using the calendar application the calendar application transmits the event details to the conference application . Once the event is about to begin or responsive to a user trying to join the multi user communication session the conference application transmits a request to the calendar application for the invitee list. This advantageously avoids a situation where the calendar application has to transmit updates to the conference application each time a change is made to the invitee list.

The conference application can be code and routines for managing a multi user communication session. The conference application receives a request from one or more users to join the multi user communication session associated with a calendar event. The conference application retrieves an invitee list associated with the calendar event and converts the invitee list into an access control list for the multi user communication session. The one or more users are checked against the access control list and provided with access permission to the multi user communication session responsive to being present in the access control list. The conference application discards the access control list for the multi user communication session once the multi user communication session has ended. The conference application is described in further detail below with reference to .

Referring now to the conference application is shown in more detail. is a block diagram of a computing device that includes a processor a memory a communication unit and a storage device according to some examples. The components of the computing device are communicatively coupled by a bus . Optionally the computing device can be a social network server . In one embodiment the computing device may be a user device

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus via signal line for communication with the other components. Processor may process data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processing capability may be limited to supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images. The processing capability might be enough to perform more complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory is coupled to the bus via signal line for communication with the other components. The instructions and or data may include code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one embodiment the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media for example a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit transmits and receives data to and from at least one of the user device the calendar server and the social network server depending upon where the conference application is stored. The communication unit is coupled to the bus via signal line . In one embodiment the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication with the user device . In another embodiment the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data with the user device or any other communication channel using one or more wireless communication methods such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH or another suitable wireless communication method.

In yet another embodiment the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In yet another embodiment the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols such as TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP as will be understood to those skilled in the art.

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that temporarily stores data used by the conference application for example a cache. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one embodiment the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis. In the illustrated embodiment the storage device is communicatively coupled by the bus for communication with the other components of the computing device via signal line . Although only one storage device is shown in multiple storage devices may be included. In another embodiment the storage device may not be included in the computing device and can be communicatively coupled to the computing device via the network .

In the illustrated embodiment the storage device stores access control list . The access control list can be data determined by the conference server module for specifying the lists of users with permission to join the multi user communication session. In one embodiment each entry in the access control list can specify a user and an associated permission. The user can be specified by at least one of a name an email identifier and a social network profile identifier. For example an entry Alice grant in the access control list can indicate that user Alice has permission to join the multi user communication session. In a second example an entry 1234567 grant in the access control list can indicate the user with a social network profile identifier 1234567 has permission to join the multi user communication session on the social network. In yet another embodiment the access control list can be used by the session management module for determining access permission for one or more users to join the multi user communication session.

In one embodiment the conference application includes a controller a social network engine a conference server module a session management module and a user interface engine .

The controller can be code and routines for handling communications between the conference application and other components of the computing device . In one embodiment the controller can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for handling communications between the conference application and other components of the computing device . In another embodiment the controller can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the controller may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

The controller may send and receive information via the communication unit to and from one or more of a user device a social network server and a calendar server . In one embodiment the controller identifies the type of data being received and transmits the data to the appropriate module or engine of the conference application . For example the controller receives information from the social network server for rendering a user interface of the social network and transmits the information to the user interface engine . In another embodiment the controller receives user inputs and user actions submitted by the user from the user device . The controller sends the user actions and the user inputs to the appropriate module or engine of the conference application . For example the controller receives a request to join a multi user communication session and forwards the request to the session management module .

In one embodiment the controller receives information from other components of the conference application and transmits the information to the appropriate component in the system via the communication unit . For example the controller receives graphical data for generating a user interface from the user interface engine . The controller transmits the graphical data to a display device not shown that is part of the user device . In another embodiment the controller receives a conference initiation notification from the session management module .

In another embodiment the controller receives data from components of the conference application and stores the data in the storage device . For example the controller receives data including the access control list determined by the conference server module and stores the data in the storage device . In yet another embodiment the controller retrieves data from the storage device and sends the data to components of the conference application . For example the controller retrieves data including the access control list from the storage device and sends the data to the session management module .

The social network engine can be code and routines for generating and managing a social network. In one embodiment the social network engine can a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating and managing a social network. In another embodiment the social network engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the social network engine can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the controller the user interface engine and other components of the conference application .

The social network engine manages the social network by handling registration of users publication of content e.g. posts comments photos links check ins etc. hosting multi user communication sessions managing of groups managing different sharing levels updating the social graph etc. The social network engine registers a user by receiving information such as a username and password and generates a user profile that is associated with the user and stored as part of the social graph. In one embodiment the social network engine requests that the user provide the email address that the user has associated with the calendar application so that the user can be properly identified in the social network as being associated with invitee lists generated by the calendar application . In another embodiment the user profile includes additional information about the user including interests e.g. soccer reading food activities e.g. searching history indications of approval posts comments and demographics e.g. age ethnicity location .

The social network engine receives social network content from the controller . The social network content includes for example a description of activities performed by the user and the user s friends conversations events etc. The social network engine transmits instructions to the user interface engine to generate graphical data for displaying a user interface that includes the social network content.

In one embodiment the social network engine communicates with the calendar server to access the calendar data of one or more users. The social network engine generates a notification to alert the one or more users on the social network of the oncoming multi user communication session corresponding to a shared calendar event. For example a selectable visual reminder or a textual reminder is generated on a social network profile of the users associated with shared calendar event.

In another embodiment the social network engine receives instructions from the session management module for hosting the multi user communication session at the social network server . For example the social network engine receives a unique Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the multi user communication session that is generated by the session management module and incorporates the URL at the social network server . The social network engine retrieves profile information including a profile photo and a name for providing presence awareness of the one or more users participating in the multi user communication session. The profile information is retrieved responsive to receiving at least one of an email identifier a name and a social network profile identifier of the one or more users associated with the multi user communication session.

The conference server module can be code and routines for determining an access control list for the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the conference server module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating and managing a social network. In another embodiment the conference server module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the conference server module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the controller the social network engine the session management module and other components of the conference application .

In one embodiment the conference server module communicates with the calendar server to retrieve a calendar invitee list for one or more events created by the calendar application . For example the conference server module interfaces with an integrated calendar application in the social network that manages day to day activities of a user. The conference server module converts the calendar invitee list into the access control list for the multi user communication session associated with the one or more events. The calendar invitee list comprises at least one of a name an email identifier and a social network profile identifier of the one or more invitees. In one embodiment the conference server module extracts the identifying information e.g. an email address from the calendar invitee list and matches the identifying information to user profile information for the social network. For example a user Alice can have an email address alice xyz.com associated with her profile information on the social network. If a match is found in the social network the conference server module generates a corresponding entry in the access control list for the multi user communication session. The conference server module stores the access control list in the storage device .

In one embodiment the conference server module determines the access control list anew for recurring events in the calendar application which may include different invitees. For example an access control list for a weekly business meeting event is determined every week. The conference server module discards the access control list once the multi user communication session associated with the event has ended. Because the conference server module generates an access control list for each event the conference application avoids problems with recurring events that have a changing list of invitees.

In one embodiment the conference server module receives information from the session management module instructing that the multi user communication session has ended. The conference server module discards the access control list in the storage device responsive to receiving the information from the session management module .

In another embodiment the calendar application requests information from the conference server module to generate the invitee list. The conference server module receives a request from the calendar application via the controller for information about a group on the social network. For example a user wants to setup a skiing event with his ski group on the social network. The social network engine provides the calendar application with contact information for the members of the group e.g. names email addresses unique identifiers etc. .

The session management module can be code and routines for generating a multi user communication session and instructing the user interface engine to generate graphical data for displaying the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the session management module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating a multi user communication session. In another embodiment the session management module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the session management module can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the conference server module the social network engine and other components of the conference application .

In one embodiment the session management module generates a multi user communication session responsive to receiving a user request for starting the multi user communication session at the social network. The multi user communication session comprises at least one of a video conference an audio conference and instant messaging. In one embodiment the session management module generates a multi user communication session by interacting with audio and video capture devices of the user device to obtain a real time audio video synchronous communication data stream of the user . For example the session management module interfaces with a software driver stored on the user device that controls the functionality of a microphone and a video camera e.g. a webcam or forward facing camera included in the user device . The audio video data stream captured by a user device may be encoded using various audio and video codecs and then encapsulated into a container before transmitting to the user interface engine . In another embodiment the session management module generates a multi user communication session that allows users participating in the session to share documents a scratchpad and computing device screenshots with one another.

The session management module receives a request from one or more users to join the multi user communication session at the social network. In one embodiment the multi user communication session corresponds to a shared calendar event. The session management module receives the access control list associated with the multi user communication session from the conference server module or retrieves the access control list from the storage device and determines whether the one or more users are present on the access control list. The session management module compares the user profile information of the one or more users against the retrieved access control list and confirms that the one or more users are present on the access control list responsive to determining a match. The session management module then provides access permission for the one or more users found present in the access control list to join and starts the multi user communication session. For example a user Alice with a social network profile identifier 1234567 requests to join the multi user communication session at the social network. If a corresponding matching entry 1234567 grant is found in the access control list then the user Alice is granted permission by the session management module to join the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the session management module generates a unique Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the multi user communication session to send to the social network engine to host the multi user communication session at the social network server .

The session management module receives a request from a permitted user in the multi user communication session to add one or more users that are absent on the invitee list into the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the request includes the Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with the multi user communication session. For example the user Alice who is a member of the multi user communication session can request to add another user for example by clicking an add button being displayed in the user interface. The session management module updates the access control list to include the one or more users added to the multi user communication session. The session management module then provides access permission for the one or more users found present in the updated access control list to join the multi user communication session. In one embodiment the session management module sends a URL for joining the multi user communication session to the user. In another embodiment the session management module sends another type of notification to the user to invite the user to join the session for example a notification in the social network or a message with an invitation.

The user interface engine can be code and routines including routines for generating graphical data for providing user interfaces to users. In one embodiment the user interface engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating graphical data for providing user interfaces that includes information from the social network the calendar and the multi user communication session. In another embodiment the user interface engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the user interface engine can be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the conference application .

In one embodiment the user interface engine receives instructions from the calendar server to generate graphical data that depicts an electronic calendar or a user interface for establishing an event. An example of a user interface for establishing an event is illustrated below as . In another embodiment the user interface engine generates graphical data for social network content based at least in part on instructions from the social network engine . For example the user interface engine generates graphical data for displaying posts comments photos videos etc. The user interface engine sends the graphical data to an application e.g. a browser in the user device via the communication unit causing the application to display the data in a user interface.

In one embodiment the user interface engine receives instructions from the session management module to generate graphical data for displaying a multi user communication session. In another embodiment the user interface engine receives a user action corresponding to the multi user communication session. The term user action used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any action performed by the user using the user interface provided to the user . The user action includes muting the volume on the video conference enlarging the video conference to full screen switching to another video conference in the browser window hiding the display of the video conference etc. The user interface engine updates the graphical data in response to the received user actions. Examples of user interfaces including graphical data that displays video conferences are explained in further detail with reference to .

Turning now to one example of a graphical representation of a user interface for adding one or more invitees to an event in an electronic calendar is illustrated. The user interface displays an events page under the calendar link in a social network associated with the user Sara . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other implementations are possible where the calendar application is not integrated with the social network. The user Sara enters the title of the event by typing the title into the title field . The user Sara also inputs the date and time for the event under the date and time fields . The user Sara indicates whether the event is a video call by checking the video call radio button under event details. The user Sara then invites one or more users to the event by entering a name in the name field and clicking the add button . In another example the user Sara can enter an email identifier associated with the one or more users for the purpose of inviting to the event. Once the user Sara is done inviting the user interface displays the list of invitees added by the user Sara for easy reference. When a user requests to join the conference the conference application sends a request to the calendar application for the invitee list.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the technology can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the present embodiment is described in one embodiment below primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present embodiment applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the description. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present embodiment of the specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

