---

title: Deferred social network check-in
abstract: A system and method is disclosed for sharing previously visited locations in a social network. A mobile computing device (for example, a smartphone) may be configured to receive and transmit a token to a server, the token including event information related to an event at a previously visited location. One or more candidate places of interest are then determined based on the event information, and provided for display to a user of the mobile computing device. The user selects one or more selected places of interest from the candidate places of interest, and the server provides, for display to one or more other users in a social network, a representation of the user and the selected places of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09508103&OS=09508103&RS=09508103
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09508103
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
The subject technology relates generally to location aware and navigational devices. Location aware smart phones and other devices have been integrated with interactive location services to provide users the ability to view their current locations and the current locations of their friends. In this manner a user may view the current location s of the user s friends in real time. Location aware devices may also be integrated with a check in feature that enables a user to select in real time a place of interest near the user s current geographic location to announce to other users for example in a social network where the user is currently located.

The subject technology provides a system and computer implemented method for indicating to members of a social network that a user previously visited a place of interest based on a token obtained from an event at the place of interest. According to one aspect a computer implemented method may include receiving a token at a computing device the token including event information related to an event at a previously visited location determining in response to receiving the token one or more candidate places of interest based on the event information providing the one or more candidate places of interest for display to a first user receiving from the first user one or more selected places of interest selected from the one or more candidate places of interest and providing for display to one or more second users of a social network a representation of the first user and the selected places of interest. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatuses and computer program products for implementation of the computer implemented method.

The previously described aspects and other aspects may include one or more of the following features. For example receiving the token may comprise activating an integrated camera associated with the computing device as a barcode scanner waiting for a barcode to be viewed by the integrated camera and on the integrated camera viewing a barcode that includes the event information electronically reading the barcode to read the event information and electronically storing the event information in a memory associated with the computing device. Receiving the token may comprise positioning a near field communication NFC device embedded within the computing device near a radio frequency identification RFID transmitter the RFID transmitter transmitting the event information and receiving the event information into the computing device using the NFC device. Receiving the token may comprise providing to a user in connection with a graphic user interface an input for receiving the event information and receiving at the input the event information in the form of a user provided code. Receiving the token may comprise providing to a user in connection with an activity stream one or more input controls for receiving the event information and receiving at the one or more input controls the event information in connection with a user provided message posted to the activity stream.

The event information may include a code and wherein determining one or more candidate places of interest comprises indexing using the code a plurality of records corresponding to respective events to identify at least one candidate event. In this regard the method may further comprise determining from the at least one candidate event one or more establishments associated with the event. The token may be received in connection with a user account the method further comprising determining in response to receiving the one or more selected places of interest one or more offerings and providing the one or more offerings to a user of the user account. The computing device may be a mobile computing device associated with a user or a server associated with the social network. The representation may be provided as one or more posts to a message stream.

In another aspect a machine readable medium may include instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause a machine to perform a method of indicating to members of a social network that a user previously visited a place of interest based on a token obtained from an event at the place of interest. In this regard the method may include receiving an event code related to a previously concluded event determining based on the event code the previously concluded event receiving from a user confirmation that the user was at the previously conducted event and providing for display to other users of a social network a representation of the user and the previously conducted event. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatuses and computer program products for implementation of the machine readable medium.

The previously described aspects and other aspects may include one or more of the following features. For example receiving the event code may comprise scanning at least a portion of a tangible document to electronically read the event code from the document. Receiving the event code may comprise receiving the event code as part of a wireless signal transmitted from a near field transmitter. The event code may be received at an interactive user interface provided by a computing device.

The event code may be received from multiple users of the social network. In this regard the method may further comprise associating in the social network the multiple users with the previously concluded event and displaying the association in one or more activity streams. The event code may be received in connection with a user account. In this regard the method may further comprise determining in response to receiving the confirmation one or more offerings for a user of the user account and providing the one or more offerings to the user of the user account. The event code may be received at a mobile computing device associated with the user. The event code may be received at a server device associated with the social network the server device receiving the event code over a network from a mobile computing device associated with the user.

In a further aspect a system may include a processor and a memory. The memory may include instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to facilitate the steps of receiving a digital token from a mobile computing device the digital token comprising information related to a previously concluded event determining based on the information the previously concluded event receiving from a first user confirmation that the first user was at the previously conducted event and providing to a modified social media check in service an instruction to check in the first user to the previously concluded event the check in operation informing one or more second users in a social graph with the first user that the first user was at the previously concluded event.

These and other aspects may provide one or more of the following advantages. A user who would otherwise check in to a visited place of interest may forgo the check in and perform a check in at a later time based on a token or other document or receipt received from an event at the place of interest. Accordingly the user does not need to access or have handy a mobile device to perform the check in. Additionally the user is afforded the opportunity to review tokens collected during a journey and may be more selective in which places of interest to share with others in a social network based on the entire journey.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A computing device for example a smart phone or social media server may be integrated with a check in feature that enables a user of a social network to send an indication for example an announcement message or the like to members of the user s social graph informing the members that the user is visiting or has visited a place of interest for example a business establishment at or near the user s current or past geographic location. As will be described further the user may not required to be at the geographic location to perform a check in. Rather the subject technology enables the user to use tangible or intangible information collected while at an event at the place of interest to later perform a modified social media check in indicating that that the user visited the place of interest. Accordingly users may assert their attendance to others within a social network at their convenience.

During a journey user may collect one or more event tokens . Example event tokens may include for example a movie ticket receipt or other paper document with an event code for example a quick response code printed thereon. Event tokens may also include digital tokens for example emailed receipts digital signatures or other digital information received by a computing device. Event token corresponds to an event attended by user . Events may include any event in which the user attends or participates and can be memorialized. Without limitation an event may include attending a movie at a movie theater or a play visiting a theme park or place of recreation for example a public beach or the like. An event may include making a purchase at a business establishment. Event token memorializes the event and provides event information that is usable by interface to facilitate the check in feature of the subject technology.

In some aspects a computing device for example a smartphone personal or notebook computer tablet computer PDA augmented reality glasses or a television or other display device with one or more computing devices embedded therein or attached thereto associated with user may include a scanning device . User may use scanning device to read and store an event code printed on event token . Event code facilitates the transfer of event token from its real world embodiment to a digital form. Accordingly event token may be a digital token for example a digital signature stored on a mobile device that is received by scanning event code input at interface or received by wireless transmission to the computing device associated with user .

In one example scanning device is a NFC reader embedded within the computing device. During a visit to a business establishment scanning device may receive transmission of event token as digital information electronically transmitted from a point of sale terminal. In another example scanning device is a barcode reader and event token is represented by a barcode. On reading the barcode scanning device receives a corresponding digital token which is then stored on the computing device. Similarly scanning device is not limited to reading barcodes but may read or recognize other types of identifiers associated with an event. Scanning device may employ image recognition to identify images or objects associated with an event. Scanning device may be implemented by a camera associated with the user s computing device. In a further implementation scanning device is substituted with a text input box on an interactive interface displayed by the computing device for input of an event code.

On completion of a journey user may use deferred check in interface to input one or more event tokens received during the journey. Interface may be one or more web pages implemented by social network or may be implemented as one or more controls integrated with certain aspects of social network for example one or more input fields or selectable drop down lists provided in connection with an activity stream .

Interface may include stand alone software installed on a computing device for example a mobile device used by user . In this aspect interface may function to receive event tokens and to upload the received tokens to a central server for the check in feature of the subject technology. For example when installed on a mobile device for example a smart phone tablet or notebook computer personal computer PDA or the like interface may configure a camera integrated with the mobile device to function as a barcode reader. In another example interface operates an integrated NFC reader. Either of these readers may be used to receive and store one or more event tokens over the course of a journey. Interface may then provide certain screens for selecting certain event tokens and to check in to one or more corresponding places of interest visited in the past. On check in a place of interest is shared with one or more second users in social network as if first user had checked in to the place of interest while visiting the place of interest.

In one aspect the event information may be input in connection with a message posted to a message stream. When constructing the message user selects a control for input of the event information in connection with the message.

On receiving an event token a computing device associated with the deferred check in interface determines one or more candidate places of interest based on the event information and displays the one or more candidate places of interest to the user. A candidate place of interest may be a tangible establishment or institution or an event at a geographic location. Likewise event token may correspond to a single place of interest or multiple places of interest at a single geographic location.

In one aspect event token includes an event code that is cross referenced to a corresponding candidate place of interest. Event lookup software associated with interface may for example search a repository for known places of interest for example businesses recreation centers or the like using the event code. In one aspect repository may cross reference event code to a geographic location or coordinate. A central server may retrieve the geographic location from repository based on event code and then query a social media check in service using the location to retrieve one or more candidate places of interest proximate to the location.

Candidate places of interest are displayed at interface . A display of a candidate place of interest may simply be a display of event information provided by event token or event code . For example the display of a place of interest may include the name of a business establishment or event at a visited location. Interface may request that a user confirm the event information by selecting a candidate place of interest for a social media check in. On selection of a candidate place of interest the selected place of interest including event information is shared with other users in social network for example in a message stream . In other aspects where an event token does not provide enough information for the subject technology to reliably predict the place of interest interface may provide multiple candidate places of interest to the user. User may then select one or more selected places of interest from the one or more candidate places of interest for example determined to be in the vicinity of a geographic location corresponding to the event information . A selected place of interest may then be provided through social network for display to other users of a social network. User may also add additional event information to provide users a more detailed account of the selected place of interest.

On receiving from user one or more selected places of interest a representation of the user and the selected previously visited places of interest may be provided for display in the social network. For example the representation may include a character description of the one or more selected places of interest together with a user identifier such as the user s name picture or other likeness of the user. In one example the representation may be a message posted to a message stream viewable by other users in the user s social graph. User may return to the representation in social network and add update or change information pertaining to the check in or delete the check in at the user s discretion.

Computing device is also operably connected to a central computing device for example one or more servers over network . Central computing device may be configured to provide a social network or other software interface for enabling one or more first users to perform a check in to a previously visited location and for notifying one or more second users of the check in. For example central computing device may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs for the integration of mobile to web extension applications. Additionally the social network provided by central computing device may include a social check in application that allows users of the social network to check in to a physical place using computing device and share their location with their friends or contacts in a social graph.

When a user for example a customer of a business establishment makes a purchase POS terminal provides user with an event token including a code for example a barcode or sequence of numbers letters and or symbols . In the depicted example event token is a receipt received for a purchase made at business establishment . Accordingly code may specify a purchase code and or the time and location of the purchase. Code may also be barcode for example a matrix barcode that includes an alphanumeric code or other information that corresponds to an event for which event token was received. User for example a ticket holder may retain event token after the purchase and at a later date and time scan the barcode using the previously described deferred check in interface to provide the event information including the event for example the name of a movie event location for example a specific theater and time of the event to central computing device .

User may also enter or scan code using his or her computing device and device may be configured to send the code or information derived there from to central computing device . For example device may send code to central computing device over network . In another aspect user may text code to a predetermined location for example phone number printed on event token . In another example an alphanumeric code may be printed on the token. User may then manually input the alphanumeric code into an input field of the previously described deferred check in interface.

The scanning and or sending of code may cause user to check in to business establishment . A representation of the user and the check in is then provided to users in a social graph with user for example as a post viewable in an activity stream.

In some implementations users for example as customers or event patrons may be incentivized to share event information from event tokens with other users in the social network. If user has opted in to third party offerings a third party sponsor of the event may provide one or more offerings for example a coupon or other discount to the user in exchange for sharing the event in the social network. In this regard an event token may be received by computing device when first user is authenticated to a user account. Central computing device determines in response to receiving a selected one or more selected places of interest one or more offerings and then provides the offerings to the user of the user account for example by email or social media message . In one example the offering may include a monetary value that is credited to the user account.

In some implementations user may store one or more event tokens in digital form on client computing device or central computing device without performing a check in. In this manner user may upload event tokens over a period of time and at a later date choose which places of interest that the user has visited to share with other users. User may for example on authenticating to social network after completing a journey select one or more stored event tokens to search for corresponding candidate places of interest or select one or more candidate places of interest that were determined offline based on previously uploaded event tokens . In some aspects social network may remove event tokens or corresponding selected places of interest once they have been selected for check in or social network may allow users to store archive organize and repeat check ins. For example social network may provide one or more webpages that provide a digest of all the places of interest that the user has visited for the past year or all the places in a specific city which the user has visited. Accordingly the digest may be organized or sorted by time or place.

The various connections between personal computing device POS terminal business server central computing device and or network may be made over a wired or wireless connection. The functionality of central computing device may be implemented on a single server or distributed among a plurality of servers or other computing devices. The functionality of central computing device may also be included in personal computing device or business server such that an independent server or set of servers is not necessary to carry out the aspects of the subject technology but rather may be implemented by a system of one or more distributed computing devices.

On input of an event code a selection list of one or more candidate places of interest may be displayed along with a request for a user to select one or more places from the list that the user visited. In one example each candidate place of interest listed may be associated with a selection box so that the user may select which places were visited and omit other suggestions offered by the system. On selection of one or more candidate places of interest for example from the previously described list the system may perform a check in operation and or post one or more messages to a message stream of a social network informing other users that the user visited the one or more candidate places of interest.

At the end of the period of time during which the previously described receipts were collected user accesses a user interface for selecting and sharing previously visited locations. User interface includes a text box for entry of an message for example alphanumeric message to be shared to other users of an online social network for example a message post to users in a social graph with user . User interface further includes a first control for the addition of one or more event inputs. A first event input include includes a name field and a code field . Name field is provided for identification of a place of interest corresponding to a code entered into code field . Name field may be automatically populated based on a code entered into code field . In some implementations an event input automatically detects a scanning of a barcode or NFC code from an associated scanner or reader and automatically enters the scanned code into code field . In other implementations first control enables user to select the type of mechanism for entry of the code for example by alphanumeric entry or scanning .

In the depicted example user types a message into text box types event code number into code field and then uses first control to add a second event input . User scans barcode to automatically provide an event code for restaurant and then adds a third event input using first control . User uses an NFC reader to electronically read the NFC tag associated with souvenir for example by tapping a handheld device that includes the NFC reader to souvenir . User may then access a second control to designate one or more users of social network for sharing message the events entered and other information input at user interface .

In some aspects the previously described event inputs may further include one or more attachment controls for associating one or more electronic documents for example one or more digital photos or videos with a deferred check in place of interest. User interface may also include a check in control for example a submit button to perform an automatic check in and sharing of the previously visited locations. In the depicted example user activates check in control to perform a deferred check in to shopping mall restaurant and concert and to share the deferred check ins with the users designated by second control .

While the previously described viewing mechanisms are displayed together in the depicted example webpage it should be understood that many implementations of webpage may display only one mechanism. For example a social network may display the locations grouped together in a message stream visible on one webpage but display either the previously described electronic map or list view on one or more other webpages.

In block a token is received at a computing device the token including event information related to an event at a previously visited location. As described previously a token can be received in a digital or tangible form. In one implementation the computing device is a mobile computing device associated with a user. The token may be a document or portion of a document related to the event. The camera integrated with the mobile device is activated as a scanner. When the document is positioned in front of the camera the camera electronically reads the token. The token may include for example a barcode wherein the integrated camera reads the barcode to read the event information and electronically stores the event information in a memory associated with the computing device.

In a second implementation the token is received over a wireless signal transmitted from a near field transmitter. In this respect the user may position a near field communication NFC device embedded within the computing device near a radio frequency identification RFID transmitter the RFID transmitter transmitting the event information. The event information may then be received into the computing device using the NFC device.

In a third implementation the token is received at an interactive user interface provided by a computing device. One or more input controls for receiving the event information may be provided to a user in connection with an activity stream. The user may provide the event information by manipulation of the one or more input controls. For example the user may enter a code related to the event in connection with a user provided message posted to the activity stream. In this implementation the computing device may alternatively be a server device associated with the social network and the server may provide the interactive user interface for display at a computing device associated with the user.

In block in response to receiving the token one or more candidate places of interest are determined based on the event information. In this respect the event information includes a code which is then used to index a plurality of records corresponding to respective events to identify at least one candidate event. The plurality of records may be stored in a data repository for example a database associated with the previously described server device. On determining a candidate event the server device may determine for example by further indexing one or more establishments associated with the candidate event.

In block the one or more candidate places of interest are provided for display to the user. The candidate places of interest may be displayed for example at the previously described interactive user interface or another interface provided by the computing device. In block one or more selected places of interest are received from a first user. The one or more selected places of interest are selected from the one or more candidate places of interest. On receiving a selected place of interest in block a representation of the first user and the selected place of interest for example a character description of the one or more selected places of interest together with a user identifier such as the user s name picture or other likeness of the user are provided for display to one or more second users of a social network for example in an activity stream or other social media notification .

Processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. Processor is configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in server . The processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or a combination of the foregoing. One or more sequences of instructions may be stored as firmware on a ROM within processor . Likewise one or more sequences of instructions may be software stored and read from ROM system memory or received from a storage medium for example via I O interface . ROM system memory and storage medium represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions code may be executable by processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to processor including both volatile media such as dynamic memory used for system memory or for buffers within processor and non volatile media such as electronic media optical media and magnetic media.

In some aspects processor is configured to communicate with one or more external devices for example via I O interface . Processor is further configured to read data stored in system memory and or storage medium and to transfer the read data to the one or more external devices in response to a request from the one or more external devices. The read data may include one or more web pages and or other software presentation to be rendered on the one or more external devices. The one or more external devices may include a computing system such as a personal computer a server a workstation a laptop computer a tablet computer a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto PDA smart phone and the like.

In some aspects system memory represents volatile memory used to temporarily store data and information used to manage device . According to one aspect of the subject technology system memory is random access memory RAM such as double data rate DDR RAM. Other types of RAM also may be used to implement system memory . Memory may be implemented using a single RAM module or multiple RAM modules. While system memory is depicted as being part of device those skilled in the art will recognize that system memory may be separate from device without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Alternatively system memory may be a non volatile memory such as a magnetic disk flash memory peripheral SSD and the like.

I O interface may be configured to be coupled to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling I O interface to processor for example via the bus . I O interface is configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the internal components attached to bus for example processor and one or more external devices for example a hard drive . I O interface may be configured to implement a standard interface such as Serial Attached SCSI SAS Fiber Channel interface PCI Express PCIe SATA USB and the like. I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface. Alternatively I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces which are individually selectable using a configuration parameter selected by a user or programmed at the time of assembly. I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices and bus and or the internal devices operably attached thereto.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the invention.

The term website as used herein may include any aspect of a website including one or more web pages one or more servers used to host or store web related content and the like. Accordingly the term website may be used interchangeably with the terms web page and server. The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

