---

title: Method and apparatus for precision interest matching
abstract: Methods and systems for delivering content to users are provided. More particularly, a search server applies server side profile information to perform an initial search for content. That content or metadata representing the content is returned to the client device. A client application running on the client device can then apply client side profile information to refine or filter the initial search results. Content identified through the application of the client side profile information can then be obtained if it has not already been downloaded to the client device, and presented to the user. Client side profile information can include information that the user does not wish to disclose, information regarding content currently being accessed by the user, and/or information regarding holes or space available for the presentation of content to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903856&OS=08903856&RS=08903856
owner: Absio Corporation
number: 08903856
owner_city: Littleton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 543 215 filed Oct. 4 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 567 501 filed Dec. 6 2011 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Methods and apparatuses for precision interest matching are provided. More particularly methods and systems for providing selected content to a client are provided.

Computer networks such as the Internet provide a common means for obtaining content or other information. For example searches can be performed over the worldwide web in response to queries provided by or on behalf of a user. The results of the search can be returned to the user in the form of an ordered list. The user can then select and review items included in the list of results and or can make further queries in order to generate additional sets of search results.

In order to generate revenue in connection with the services offered over public networks such as the Internet websites often sell advertising space. The advertisements that are presented by a web page can be selected based on information known or inferred about the user. For example advertisements can be selected for presentation to a user based on search queries that have been entered by the user in the past.

In an effort to provide advertisements that are more precisely targeted to the user search engines or other websites can aggregate information about the user. Such information can include a history of searches web pages visited and other information obtained from the user or derived from the user s actions. However this collection of information raises privacy concerns. In addition the current interests of the user may not be accurately inferred from collected information for example where the user is pursuing new or different interests. As another example advertising about a vacation destination after the person has returned from vacation may be presented as a result of search information aggregated from prior to the user s vacation.

In connection with the delivery of relevant content whether advertising or otherwise to a user it is valuable to have detailed information about the user and about the specific information or content that the user is then interested in receiving. For example demographic information regarding the user can help advertisers or providers of content generally to provide content desired by or of interest to the user. However many users are reluctant to provide detailed demographic information or other information that can be used to identify the user. As a result a user faces a choice of disclosing information about themselves or their current interests or receiving useless content. In addition content providers which can include advertisers are unable to accurately determine the current interests of the user. Content providers both advertisers and publishers believe they have the right to discern collect merge with data from other sources aggregate and sell any data they can regarding their users and use this data to track user activity across multiple web sites and email communications reinforcing content consumers concerns regarding privacy and security.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing systems and methods that are capable of delivering precisely selected content based on the content provider and content consumer publisher and user needs to a user while requiring that the user disclose no or limited information about themselves or their current interests to the content provider e.g. advertiser or publisher . More particularly embodiments of the disclosed invention include a client application that provides an interface with the user or an interface to another application through an application programming interface API . Through this user interface or API the user can provide personal information and information regarding content that is relevant to the user or that the user is otherwise interested in receiving. The personal information and information about the content that the user is interested in receiving can be stored as part of one or more sets of profile information. Selected portions of the profile information can be used to generate queries that are provided to a search server. The search server can run one or more searches in response to receiving the queries. Metadata concerning the content included in search results can be returned to the client by the search server. The client application can then apply further profile information to select items of content represented by the metadata to download to the client device.

The delivery of only selected information to a search server allows searches for desired or relevant content to be performed by the search server while providing confidentiality or privacy. In particular information that is considered particularly sensitive is not delivered to the search server. Moreover at least initially the search query information is not delivered to an advertiser or content provider at this point at all. In particular the search server can protect the information the client device provides to the search server. The client can authorize the search server to release selected information in a non anonymous fashion at the client s choice for example as a condition of using the content or specific anonymous information after the fact as marketing demographics. Additionally the search server does not retain aggregate or otherwise keep this query data. The user can choose via the user interface or API to provide a controlled set of information about themselves anonymously and possibly get paid or otherwise compensated for that information. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention information that is sensitive can be used to refine or filter the search results on the client device and to determine the content that is actually presented to the user. In addition because embodiments provide metadata about content rather than the content itself the delivery of the metadata to the client device can be performed with fewer resources than if the content itself were delivered as part of the initial search results.

In accordance with embodiments of the disclosed invention the refinement of the search results can be performed by the client application automatically through application of additional profile information. Moreover after selecting particular items of content through the application of the additional profile information the client application can download that content and store copies of the content locally. The user can then view that content at any time after the content has been downloaded. Alternatively content can be streamed to the client device and viewed by the user at or about the time that it is received at the client device. In accordance with still other embodiments content can be downloaded to the client device based on the initial search performed by the search server and that content can then be filtered based on various criteria by the client application.

In accordance with further embodiments of the disclosed invention the communications including the exchange of profile information metadata and content can be performed securely for example through the application of encryption techniques. In accordance with still further embodiments the client application can provide notification to an authority for example to the search server when metadata and or items of content are accessed by the user of the client device.

Additional features and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the following description particularly when taken together with the accompanying drawings.

The client device may comprise a general purpose computer such as but not limited to a laptop or desktop personal computer a tablet computer a smart phone or other device capable of communications over a communication network and capable of presenting content to an associated user . The client device may also comprise a processing unit that is interconnected to an affiliated input output device. For instance a client device can include a set top box operated in connection with a tablet computer. The client device includes and or executes a client application in connection with the identification of content and the presentation of content to the user . Accordingly the client application may comprise application programming stored on or accessible to the client device that is executed by or on behalf of the client device in connection with the identification and presentation of content. The client application may operate in association with profile information that is stored or maintained as one or more user profiles. As described in greater detail elsewhere herein profile information can include information that is used to locate and identify content for presentation to the user . The information can include server side profile information that is provided to the search server either directly or in the form of a query formulated locally and a second set of information that is reserved or retained locally as client side profile information . More particularly the server side profile information can be used to obtain initial or rough search results and does not need to include information that individually identifies the user . The client side profile information can be used to select content included in the initial search results to download to the client device and or to present to the user . The client device can also include a content cache comprising items of content and or items of enhanced content identified by the search server that have been downloaded to the client device . Information or content in the content cache can be held on the client device until it is viewed by the user discarded as a result of filtering performed on the client device or until the content has become stale.

The search server can include a general purpose computer or server computer. Moreover the search server may comprise one or more devices that perform functions in support of the identification and provision of content and or enhanced content to a client device over the communication network . The search server can include or implement a server application . The server application can receive queries and or can formulate queries based on server side profile information that is provided to the search server by a client device . Alternatively or in addition the server application can run queries on behalf of one or more client devices based on generic or non client device sourced profile information or search criteria. The server application can identify content and or enhanced content by applying the search or query using various techniques. For example the server application can operate by passing a query to a publicly available search engine such as Google Bing or Yahoo search or by itself implementing a search engine function. The server application can identify or collect links to content available through or stored on the search server or on some other data source . For example the server application can operate to locate content on the worldwide web WWW in a private intranet or in public or private databases. As described in greater detail elsewhere herein the server application can further operate to provide lists of identified content and metadata concerning that identified content to a client device . The search server can also facilitate the delivery of particular items of content selected from lists of content by a client device to that client device or other client devices . In accordance with still other embodiments the server application can perform or support administrative functions. For example information regarding content downloaded to the client device and or presented by a client device to an associated user can be collected by the server application . Such information can be provided to an administration module . The administration module can perform functions related to billing a user for accessing particular items of content performing digital rights management functions with respect to items of content billing advertisers in connection with presenting particular items of content to a user and the like.

The communication network can include one or more networks capable of supporting communications between devices or nodes of the system including but not limited to a client device a search server and a data source . Examples of communication networks include the Internet or any wide area network WAN local area network LAN or networks in various combinations.

A data source can for example comprise a server computer interconnected to the search server and or the client device through the communication network . For example a data source can comprise a website or other public or proprietary source of content . As a further example a data source can comprise a public or proprietary database of content . A data source can also include a source of enhanced content .

The processor may include any processor capable of performing instructions encoded in software or firmware. In accordance with other embodiments of the present invention the processor may comprise a controller or application specific integrated circuit ASIC having or capable of performing instructions encoded in logic circuits. The memory may be used to store programs or data including data comprising content . As examples the memory may comprise RAM SDRAM or other solid state memory. Alternatively or in addition data storage may be provided. The data storage may generally include storage for programs and data. For instance with respect to a client device data storage may provide storage for a client application an object or data store a content cache content for example within the data store and or content cache and key rings . As shown the client application can include or be associated with profile information and a user interface module or function . Data storage associated with a client device can also provide storage for one or more user applications communication applications and or operating system software . The data storage associated with the search server can include the server application content for example as part of one or more content databases a data warehouse and accounting data for example maintained as part of the administration module and operating system software .

In response to the initiation of a query server side profile information can be provided by the client application on or associated with the client device to the search server via the one or more communication networks step . In response to receiving the server side profile information the server application initiates a search step . In initiating the search the server application can provide a received query to a search engine that is implemented by the server application itself or that is provided by an affiliated or otherwise available search engine. Alternatively the server application can formulate a query that uses or that is based on server side profile information and can provide that query to a search engine. In accordance with still other embodiments the query can be formulated by and or received from an administrator or an administration function operating on or in association with the search server .

At step search result metadata is returned to the client device . The search results metadata can be collected by the server application from the search results obtained by the search engine. In accordance with embodiments of the disclosed invention the search results metadata can comprise various data concerning content identified by the server application such as by title author synopsis or other brief summary excerpt subject matter classification unique ID date of creation and date of an event or events to which the content is related. As can further be appreciated by one of skill in the art the metadata will typically comprise a fraction of the amount of data of the content itself. Accordingly the metadata can be provided to a client device over a communication network using less bandwidth and other resources than if the full set of content included in the search results were returned to the client device .

The client side profile information is then applied to the search results metadata by the client application step . Alternatively or in addition input provided by a user can be applied to the search results metadata. Importantly this additional information or search criteria is applied to the search results metadata at the client device . Accordingly transmission of such client side profile information across a communication network and or the release of such client side profile information to the search server is not required in order to refine the search results. In addition the client device is not required to be in communication with the search server at the time the client side information is applied. At step a determination is made as to whether any items of content have been selected from the search results metadata. If content has been selected that content can be downloaded step . At step a determination is made as to whether the process is to be continued. If the process is to be continued it returns to step to determine whether a query has been initiated. Alternatively the process may end.

With reference now to aspects of a process for presenting content to a user in accordance with further embodiments of the present invention are depicted. More particularly the selection and presentation of enhanced content or information where enhanced content generally includes advertisements or items of information that may or may not be directly related to user activities with respect to the client device are illustrated. Although the description uses as examples enhanced content comprising advertisements embodiments of the system can include locating and presenting enhanced content other than advertisements that is determined to be of interest to the user . Initially at step the user accesses the client application . A determination is then made as to whether an enhanced content function is on or has been enabled step . If an enhanced content function has not been enabled a next user request is processed normally step . If an enhanced content function has been enabled a determination is next made as to whether an enhanced content fuel gauge indicates that an enhanced content cache is full step . If the enhanced content cache is found to be full the system processes the next user request normally step .

If the content cache is not full a request is constructed step . Construction of the request can include sending server side profile information to the search server . As described in greater detail elsewhere herein the server side profile information can include information stored as part of profile information on the client device information concerning content that is currently being accessed by the user a current location of the user or client device information regarding the output capabilities of the client device and or information regarding user interface display metrics including space within a user interface display that is available to display or otherwise output an advertisement or other content. At step using the constructed request one or more items of enhanced content such as but not limited to an advertisement or other content is obtained from the search server or from a data source identified by the search server . The retrieved enhanced content is then downloaded and placed in an enhanced content store e.g. a local ad store included in the local content cache on the client device step .

At step after processing a next user request or placing retrieved enhanced content in the local content cache a determination is made as to whether an advertisement or other enhanced content needs to be displayed to the user . The determination as to whether an advertisement or other enhanced content needs to be displayed can be made based on various parameters including terms of use related to the content selected for display or other content being accessed by the user or other user and or administration selected parameters. If an advertisement or other content is to be displayed that advertisement or enhanced content is selected from the local enhanced content store or content cache step . The selected advertisement or other enhanced content is then displayed as part of a page of other information or content being viewed by the user step . If it was determined that an advertisement or other enhanced content does not need to be displayed the user is simply presented with a display of the page or other content accessed in response to a user request. After displaying the page of information or content at step or processing a next user request at step the process for selecting and displaying enhanced content may end.

If a match is found a determination is made as to whether the matching enhanced content has been downloaded to the content cache step . If the matching enhanced content is not locally available that enhanced content can be downloaded or other matching enhanced content can be identified step . The matching enhanced content can then be obtained from the content cache and is provided to the user interface function of the client application for rendering and display or other presentation to the user through the user output step . After displaying the selected enhanced content the process may end.

Although various examples and embodiments have been described in which advertisements are selected and presented to a user embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the selection and presentation of advertising content. Instead embodiments of the disclosed invention can be used to select content and or enhanced content wherever efficiency security and or privacy is a concern. More particularly by performing an initial search using a subset of a user s profile information comprising server side profile information a user can initiate or have initiated on their behalf the collection of an initial set of search results without requiring that the user transmit and or otherwise disclose details of the search criteria that may compromise the security of confidential information and or personal information. Instead search criteria that may present security and or privacy concerns is maintained on the client device and is applied by the client application . In addition the efficiency of the system can remain high because only metadata regarding content and or enhanced content needs to be returned as part of an initial set of search results. In particular the initial search results can be refined by applying client side profile information to the returned metadata. Content and or enhanced content identified through this process can then be downloaded where a match is found using the metadata. Embodiments of the disclosed invention can also provide relevant content to a user even where the user didn t know to look for that content based on a watch or query and filtering performed by application of client side profile information .

In one exemplary scenario embodiments of the invention can provide relevant content and or enhanced content to a user without compromising security or privacy concerns of the user . For instance a query can be initiated on behalf of a user by sending server side profile information to the search server. The sending of the server side profile information can be initiated when a geolocation module on the client device signals the client application that the user has entered a particular geographic region. Moreover this can be done without sending that location information to the search server . The client device can then be provided with metadata regarding a range of content and a set or list of particular items of content and or enhanced content can then be refined securely by applying client side profile information at the client device . This client side profile information can include the client device location. Accordingly a targeted search can be performed without requiring disclosure of sensitive client side profile information to the search server or any other device or node. For instance the security clearance location mission or other information associated with the user can be maintained solely on the client device .

In accordance with still further embodiments of the disclosed invention a taxonomy can be applied to identify content and or enhanced content that is likely relevant and therefore of interest to the user . In particular a taxonomy can be used to identify characteristics of content being viewed currently by a user and to obtain additional content and or enhanced content that is commensurate with the subject matter or other indicia of the content being viewed. In this way information in the form of content and or enhanced content that is highly relevant to the current activity or interest of a user can be located and delivered to that user .

Systems and methods in accordance with embodiments of the disclosed invention allow for the delivery of profile information and content and or enhanced content using secure mechanisms. Accordingly not only is security and privacy enhanced through the division of profile information into server side profile information and client side profile information but information that is transmitted across a communication network whether that information comprises profile information metadata content and or enhanced content can be encrypted. Encrypted content can be accessed through the application of one or more keys for example maintained in key rings to access.

The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Further the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings within the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain the best mode presently known of practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or in other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular application or use of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

