---

title: Methods and apparatus that support addressable interactive applications
abstract: Methods and apparatus for supporting targeted advertising and/or other targeted applications in set top boxes which use data and/or applications, e.g., EBIF (Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format) applications, are described. Application level targeting is supported in which an application running on different STBs presents different application behavior and/or presents different visual sub-elements depending on the content of a subscriber profile on the particular individual STB. In the case of addressability at the Application Layer an EBIF application can target different viewers by checking private User Preference Items at runtime. Addressability at the signaling/platform level is also supported allowing targeting of a specific application or a sub-element within an application to a specific target group. In this scenario the particular applications/sub-elements are loaded on the set-tops that belong to a target group, e.g., satisfy targeting constraints specified in private targeting metadata that is received in an MPEG stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843987&OS=08843987&RS=08843987
owner: Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC
number: 08843987
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120823
---
The present invention relates to methods and apparatus which support addressable interactive applications e.g. targeted advertising and or other user targeted applications on set top boxes e.g. EBIF Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format applications and or other types of applications.

EBIF is the abbreviation for Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format. The EBIF standard which has been developed as an OpenCable specification by Cable Television Laboratories Inc. is described in the publicly available specification Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format 1.0 OC SP ETV BIF1.0406 110128 Jan. 28 2011 

EBIF files communicate information and actions to be taken by an application such as for example an ETV user agent on a STB. The ETV Enhanced Television user agent will execute the actions specified an EBIF file such as present a multimedia page including content specified in an application and or EBIF file. An application may include data parameters used to determine the action to be taken as well as data to be presented e.g. displayed based on user input and or one or more actions being conditions being satisfied. While the current EBIF standard supports three standard User Preference Items which can be used in controlling an application i.e. PostalCode PrimaryLanguage and Secondary Language these user preference items are of only limited use in terms of targeting advertisements to users associated with the step top box on which an EBIF application is executed.

The EBIF and related OpenCable Tru 2 way specifications as published by CableLabs provide a framework that can be used to provide interactive applications that can be broadcast within a MPEG program to all the set top receivers in the system and will be loaded processed and run by all set tops that are tuned to the specific program. Unfortunately the specifications in their current format have limitations as there is no provision to target the application or its contents to a specific target audience within the system based on characteristics such as age income levels services to which a user already subscribes etc. which can be important user characteristics for advertising and or ad targeting purposes.

Advertising is an important source of revenue for cable companies satellite companies and or other content distributers. Advertisers are often willing to pay a premium if they are able to target their advertisements to a particular audience likely to be interested in their product and or which is considered a desirable audience to target for a particular reason e.g. because of their income level age sex or other characteristics.

In addition to providing content distributers a chance to sell targeted advertising content distributers e.g. cable service providers internet service providers etc. can find targeted advertising useful in up selling their own offerings by presenting advertisements for products which are upgrades to services and or plans which a service subscriber has while avoiding presenting advertisements for services to which a subscriber already subscribes.

In view of the above discussion it should be appreciated that it would be desirable if methods and or apparatus could be developed which would allow for meaningful targeting of specific audiences via set top box applications using data and or applications communicated in accordance with the EBIF standard and or other formats and or standards.

Methods and apparatus for enabling and implementing addressable interactive applications e.g. set top box STB applications that can be target to a specific user group e.g. subscriber group or other group of users having one or more common characteristics or preferences are described. In various embodiments interactive applications running on a STB target users that match one or more user profile characteristics specified by the author of the interactive. The approach used to user targeting is not limited to can targeting of an entire application but can also be used to target specific sub elements pages within the application to a specific target group.

The described methods and apparatus provide flexibility to utilize addressability at application level and present different application behavior and or present different visual sub elements for different target user groups. In some such exemplary embodiments the set tops in the system run the same application but the behavior of the application is different based on the target group the set top belongs to with the behavior to be provided to each of various groups being specified by the application. For example in the case of addressability at the Application Layer an EBIF application can target different viewers by checking the private User Preference Items at runtime and apply the right logic to display the appropriate User Interface.

In another exemplary embodiment addressability at the signaling platform level is used allowing targeting of a specific application or a sub element within an application to a specific target group. In this scenario the particular applications sub elements are loaded on the set tops that belong to the target group as specified in the signaling associated with targeting data that is received e.g. private metadata that is received in an MPEG stream. Applications and or application sub elements that do not satisfy the targeting criteria applied to user profile information stored on a STB are not loaded on to the set top box. Thus in accordance with this approach the applications sub elements which are not relevant to a set top box are not loaded and STBs with different subscriber profiles may and normally will be loaded with different applications and or application elements. In such an embodiment a set top box which is associated with a user who does not satisfy the targeting criteria for a particular application would not be loaded with the particular application.

In some embodiments an end to end system for addressability includes a server that can configure and manage the addressable qualifiers and attributes for the service delivery platform. In various embodiments at any given time there is a finite set of addressable qualifiers attributes defined for the system that are common to and can be used in regard to the subscribers within the system.

Based on the subscriber data provided imported to the addressability server the addressability server builds and manages profiles for individual subscribers associated with STBs as per the qualifiers specified. In some embodiments the server unicasts the subscriber profile associated with a STB in the system to the corresponding STB either through a push e.g. server initiated transmission or pull e.g. STB initiated request mechanism.

In some embodiments which use the pull mechanism the system is configured for receivers e.g. STBs to poll the server periodically at a configured time intervals to sync and refresh the profile stored on the STBs In some but not necessarily all embodiments the set tops poll the server every at least once 24 hours to refresh the profile data. The polling for different STBs is staggered in some embodiments to evenly distribute the load on the server over all or a portion of a 24 hour period corresponding to a day.

Client software e.g. a STB application interacts with the addressability server to receive and store the subscriber profile information on the set top receiver and makes it available to different software modules running on the set top such as the EBIF UA EBIF User Agent DPI as well as to interactive applications that can run on the set top through one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces .

The subscriber profile information includes addressable qualifier values which provide information about the subscriber and or services to which the subscriber subscribes. One or more subscriber profiles corresponding to a subscriber can be stored on a STB e.g. with different subscriber profiles corresponding to different organizations. The interactive applications in some embodiments include a digital navigator and EBIF User Agent software.

In some embodiments an application authoring tool is supported that can programmatically query e.g. determine the set of usable qualifiers defined by the addressable server at any given time and can provide them as options for the application developer to include as targeting qualifiers in one or more application that the developer is creating e.g. as part of a marketing campaign.

In some embodiments a campaign manager module and or scheduling system can query the qualifiers defined by the addressability server and can provide configuration options to the campaign manager and or scheduling system allowing a campaign to target specific application s or STB users over time based on the qualifier set which is supported.

As discussed above application level targeting is supported in some embodiments with an application executing one or more different application elements if the conditional logic and targeting qualifier set which define the constraint for executing the individual application elements are satisfied based on subscriber profile information stored on the STB. An application element can be a portion of an application with different application elements providing different functions and or corresponding to different advertisements. Thus different application portions maybe executed depending on what targeting constraints a subscriber profile satisfies.

In various embodiments signaling level addressability is supported. For example in some embodiments particular EBIF applications are loaded and executed if conditions set by conditional logic and corresponding targeting qualifier values e.g. parameters specifying desired subscriber characteristics and or other subscriber information associated with an application are satisfied by addressable qualifier values in a user profile or other information set on a set top box. The addressable qualifier values included in a subscriber profile stored on a STB may and in some embodiments are parameters specifying various subscriber characteristics or other subscriber information such as service subscription information. Exemplary subscriber characteristics which may be targeted included sex income level age etc.

In some embodiments an individual application or application element e.g. page resource is not sent with the conditional logic and targeting qualifier values corresponding to the individual application. Rather in at least some such embodiments the individual application or application element is downloaded and executed in response to determining that the conditional logic and targeting constraints associates with the application or application element are satisfied by the addressable qualifier values stored in a STB e.g. in a subscriber profile on the STB.

Applications application elements as well as conditional logic and corresponding targeting qualifier values may be sent to an application in a plurality of ways. In some embodiments an MPEG transport stream of a program channel is used to deliver targeting information applications application elements and or conditional logic used to determine which applications and or application portions should be loaded and or executed by the STB.

Different organizations may generate and store different subscriber profiles on the same set top box with each of the different subscriber profiles corresponding to the same subscriber being identified as being associated with a particular organization. For example a STB may and in some embodiments does store a first subscriber profile corresponding to a first organization e.g. a Time Warner Cable TWC subscriber profile for a subscriber and also store a subscriber profile corresponding to a second organization e.g. a Verizon telephone subscriber profile for the same subscriber. The different subscriber profiles corresponding to the same subscriber may include the same or different addressable qualifier values depending on the information available to the organization to which the subscriber profile corresponds.

Organization identifiers may and in some embodiments are provided with conditional logic and targeting qualifier values to facilitate identification of which of a plurality of subscriber profiles corresponding to a subscriber are to be used when determining whether an application portion is to be loaded and or executed. For example a TWC organization identifier may and in some embodiments is included with conditional logic and targeting qualifier values so that a STB receiving the conditional logic and targeting qualifier values will know to use the addressable qualifier values of the TWC subscriber profile as opposed to those included in another organization s subscriber profile when determining if a particular application or application element e.g. a TWC application or application element should be executed.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention are well suited for a wide variety of applications. Exemplary applications include ETV EBIF applications and other applications.

Various additional features and advantages of the present invention are discussed in the detailed description which follows.

The system includes a service provider system e.g. cable network headend and a plurality of customer premises . In the discussion service provider system is also referred to as the headend .

The service provider system headend may be implemented at a service provider s office or site including multiple servers and databases which are coupled together. In the example the headend includes a server e.g. broadcast file server BFS and or video on demand VOD server an addressability server an application server which includes an ETV application server content video storage system customer database and a business management server . It should be appreciated that one or more of the various servers and or elements shown to be included in the headend in some embodiments reside outside the headend . In some embodiments one or more of the servers and or elements is implemented in a distributed manner with portions of the server or element residing at different locations in system . The various servers and other components included in the headend are coupled together by a local network . The local network is coupled via one or more network interfaces to other networks and or devices. For example the headend is coupled via network interface to service provider s communications network e.g. a cable network and may also be coupled to one or more other external networks.

Via the communications network the devices in the network headend can send and receive signaling and or other information to the devices located at the customer premises coupled to the cable network . Each customer premise includes a modem a set top box and a display device respectively. In some embodiments modems are cable modems. The display device could be e.g. an external television. It should be appreciated that each of the STBs can be integrated in a device which also includes a display. The STBs support video and optionally E mail functionality. The STBs can be used to send information to the headend in addition to receiving signaling and or information from the headend . In addition in some embodiments each customer premise may include one or more IP devices that support internet protocol such as a personal computer PC laptop cell phone etc. in addition to the STBs. The STBs may and often do include DVR functionality and the storage of user selected content. It should be appreciated that customer premise may also include additional STBs and display devices in addition to the ones shown in the figure. In some embodiments external modems such as are not included at the customer premise rather in such embodiments the STBs include a built in modem.

As shown in communications link traversing the service provider s cable network couples modem to the network head end s network interface . Similarly modem in the customer premise n is coupled to service provider s system s network interface via link which traverses the service provider s network .

The BFS and or VOD server among other things is responsible for delivering programming content and or other information to one or more customer STB devices e.g. including STB and STB . Exemplary delivered programming content includes video on demand content ordered by one or more customers to the customer devices e.g. to STB and or other customer devices. In some embodiments a BFS server and a VOD server are implemented as separate individual servers.

The addressability server configures and manages the addressable qualifiers and attributes for the service delivery platform. In various embodiments at any given time there is a finite set of addressable qualifiers attributes defined for a system that are common to all the subscribers within the system. The maximum number for the finite set is determined by the resource constraint on the various components of the system. The addressability server generates and manages customer subscriber profiles for a plurality of customers served by the headend . The customer subscriber profiles are generated based on a defined set of addressable qualifiers attributes and additional customer subscriber information provided imported to the addressability server .

Exemplary application server generates and provides applications and application data e.g. such as initial page resources data image resources target qualifier sets and or other application specific data corresponding to various applications to customer premise devices such as STBs. In various embodiments the application server includes an ETV application server.

The customer database includes customer information corresponding to a plurality of customers including customer account information customer subscription service information and information regarding the devices installed at customer premises. In some embodiments customer account information includes e.g. customer account number customer subscription service information and other billing related information. Customer device information includes device identification and or other information regarding customer devices such as STBs modems etc. installed at various customer premises served by the headend . The information in the customer database can and in some embodiments is used to generate subscriber profiles which are loaded onto the STB of the subscriber to which the generated subscriber profile corresponds. The subscriber profiles include account service subscription and or other information represented in the form of addressable values e.g. parameters which provide information about the subscriber and or services to which the subscriber subscribes.

BM Business management server processes billing information corresponding to customers serviced by the network headend . This may include updating billing charge information in response to changes in services being provided to the customer upgrades new purchases and or other activity. Business management server also processes services bill payment information e.g. bill payment transactions deductions from debit accounts mail bills and or processes discount and or other information.

The addressability server includes an addressable qualifier set AQS including a plurality of addressable qualifiers AQs through and a plurality of customer subscriber profiles generated by the server . As discussed above the addressability server configures and manages the addressable qualifiers and attributes are common to all the subscribers within the system at a given time. The addressable qualifiers attributes through can be defined in a number of ways and in some embodiments include attributes corresponding to individuals e.g. subscribers such as Age sex subscriber s location ethnicity income level subscribed services etc. However various other types of addressable qualifiers can be defined. Based on the specified addressable qualifiers in the set the addressability server generates and manages customer subscriber profiles for a plurality of customers served by the headend .

In various embodiments the addressability server unicasts each subscriber profile to the associated set top receivers corresponding to the subscriber in the system either through push or pull mechanism. In some embodiments for pull mechanism the STBs in the system are configured to poll the server addressability server periodically at a configured interval time to sync and refresh the profile stored on the set tops. For example the STBs may poll the server every 24 hours to refresh the profile data.

The application server includes an ETV application server that generates and provides ETV applications and application data e.g. such as initial page resources data image resources target qualifier sets and or other application specific data corresponding to various ETV applications to customer premise devices such as STBs. In various embodiments the ETV application server includes an application authoring module that programmatically query the qualifiers defined by the addressable server at any given time and can provide them as options for the application developers to include as targeting qualifiers in one or more applications. The ETV application server further includes a campaign management scheduling module an ETAG module a target qualifiers set TQS a plurality of applications through e.g. ETV eBIF applications which can be delivered to the STBs and application resources through corresponding to the applications through . In some embodiments the campaign management scheduling module is configured to query the qualifiers in the set defined by the addressability server at any given time and can provide configuration options to the operator to target a specific application and or a user interface UI corresponding to an application to one or a group of STBs based on the qualifier set .

The ETAG module is configured to access and deliver a target qualifier TQS set such as set TQS applications application resources and application signaling e.g. ETV EISS signaling to the customer STB devices . The target qualifier set includes a plurality of target qualifiers generated by the application authoring module based on the accessed AQS . The TQS includes a subset of the qualifiers attributes defined in the AQS and can be used to send targeted applications and or application resources e.g. user interface to one or more STBs in accordance with one feature of some embodiments of the invention. In some embodiments the TQS data is generated in eBIF data resource format.

In some embodiments specific targeted ETV eBIF application may be associated with a set of targeting qualifiers. In some embodiments such a targeted application or application resources are sent to one or more targeted subscriber STBs when a matching criteria set forth in the application s matching logic is satisfied e.g. when the associated target qualifiers match the addressable qualifiers for the STBs in accordance with the matching logic. The application resources through include EBIF application resources including an initial page resource and additional data image resources corresponding to applications through . In some embodiments the page resources include the UI layout and the application logic while the image resource can carry e.g. PNG JPEG images.

In some embodiments the ETV application server generates and provides eBIF application resource data corresponding to ETV eBIF applications through ETV PIDs included in a program stream. In some embodiments the application and or application resource data is multiplexed to a content program stream through a transport multiplexer.

As the subscriber profile is generated based on the addressability qualifiers attributes and the subscriber s information the subscriber profile includes details e.g. addressable qualifier values corresponding to the defined addressable qualifiers discussed with regard to . For example if at a given time an addressable qualifier set AQS includes the following qualifiers attributes defined by the addressability server such as Subscriber Name Age Sex Location Annual Income Occupation location e.g. city Ethnicity Pets HBO subscription on demand channels subscription high speed data subscription HD channels subscription long distance calling subscription etc. then the generated subscriber s profile would include qualifier values corresponding to each of the qualifiers for the particular subscriber to whom the profile corresponds.

The exemplary subscriber profile includes qualifier values corresponding to each of the addressable qualifiers for the particular subscriber e.g. user of STB . For illustration purposes the subscriber profile indicates a field showing a given addressable qualifier followed by a colon followed by the qualifier value. illustrates that the subscriber profile includes a field showing Name value as John Cortez a field showing Age value as 45 years a field showing Sex value showing the gender as a male a field showing annual income value of the subscriber as 80 000 a field showing subscriber s occupation value as a real estate realtor a field showing the location value where subscriber STB is located e.g. a city as Cherry Hill a field showing subscriber s ethnicity value as Hispanic.

The subscriber profile further includes a field showing Pet s value as being true which indicates that the subscriber household has pets e.g. a cat dog birds etc. If the Pet s value field indicated the value as false that would indicate that the subscriber household does not have pets. The subscriber profile further includes fields through which indicate values corresponding to addressable qualifier relating subscribed services indicating various services subscribed or not subscribed by the subscriber of STB . For example an addressable qualifier value in the profile shown as TRUE indicates that the corresponding service is subscribed while FALSE indicates the service not being subscribed. Field shows HBO subscription value as being true which indicates that the subscriber STB has HBO subscription. Field shows premium content channels subscription value as being false which indicates that the subscriber STB does not have subscription for one or more premium content channels. The profile may also include details regarding the various channels services subscribed by the customer.

Field shows high speed data subscription value as being false which indicates that the subscriber does not have high speed data services subscribed. Field shows high definition HD channel subscription value as being true which indicates that HD channels are subscribed and field shows long distance calling a telephone service feature subscription value as being false which indicates that the subscriber does not have subscription for long distance e.g. international calling.

Various other types of information fields may be included in a customer s profile based on the addressable qualifiers defined by the addressability server . The customer subscriber s information may be gathered by the headend e.g. via the subscriber s STB device e.g. using customer s input through STB device where the subscriber is encouraged to build a subscriber profile e.g. using an interactive application on the STB. In some embodiments at least some customer information is available to the addressability server for use in generating the subscriber profile through customer subscription records which may be generated and maintained by the service provider headend based on information provided by the customer at the time of service subscription or the customer may be asked to fill out such record form at the time of subscription. For purposes of generating the subscriber profile the addressability server may also obtain customer information from the customer database .

Various other information fields indicating addressable qualifier values that indicate subscriber s preferences viewing habits internet surfing habits favorite movies shows etc. may and in some embodiments are included in the generated profile . Such information fields can also be used to target specific applications and or advertisement campaigns to the subscriber.

In some embodiments the exemplary subscriber profile includes a set of addressable qualifier values sometimes referred to as an addressable qualifier set AQS . The subscriber profile is downloaded onto the STB from the addressability server . While a single AQS corresponding to a subscriber is shown different AQSs corresponding to the same subscriber but different organizations e.g. companies networks and or service providers may and in some embodiments are downloaded and stored on the STB . Subscriber profiles corresponding to a subscriber but to different organizations may include different information e.g. different subscription information and or even different income or age information depending on the information the subscriber provided to the organization to which the subscriber profile corresponds. For example a subscriber profile relating to a dating service or social networking service may include different age information corresponding to a subscriber than a subscriber profile relating to a telephone or cable service due to the subscriber having provided different information to the different organizations.

The exemplary AQS includes a plurality of addressable qualifier values for the subscriber to which AQS corresponds where the addressable qualifier values correspond to addressable qualifiers specified by the addressability server as discussed above. That is the addressability server defines what addressable qualifiers are to be included in subscriber profiles and then the parameter values corresponding to the addressable qualifiers are included in the individual subscriber profiles where the values may vary from subscriber to subscriber. For example a male subscriber may have an M value for a sex addressable qualifier in his profile while a female subscriber may have an F addressable qualifier value for the value of the sex addressable qualifier in her profile. In a subscriber profile an addressable qualifier value may be preceded by an addressable qualifier type indicator such as SEX before the value M or the addressable qualifier fields in a profile may have a predetermined mapping to addressable qualifier fields so that the value in a particular filed of the profile is known to convey a particular type of information e.g. the third field of a profile may be dedicated to storing the SEX addressable qualifier value.

In some other embodiments the AQS is not included in the profile rather it is stored separately in the STB memory.

In accordance with one feature when a target qualifier set TQS is delivered to a subscriber s STB e.g. STB to which the subscriber profile corresponds the user agent module on the STB device compares the target qualifier values included in the received TQS with the corresponding addressable qualifier values in the subscriber profile according to a specified matching logic which is used to specific conditions or constraints which are based on the comparison between values in the TQS and the subscriber profile. For example the conditional logic may specify a match constraint greater than constraint or a less than constraint. Individual constraints may be combined based on specified logical operates specifying operations such as AND or OR. Thus a combination of constraints can be specified based on one or more target qualifier values with the combination of constraints having to be satisfied before a corresponding application portion which may be a sub element application portion an entire complete application is executed.

Based on the result of matching different applications and or application resources e.g. UI s User Interfaces product images etc. can be launched on the subscriber s STB and shown to the customer. Thus it should be appreciated that using the features of various embodiments of the present invention specific targeted applications advertisements and or information etc. which are intended for a one or more target subscribers can be presented to the intended recipients.

A target application may refer to different variables and or data elements corresponding to the application and the ones available to a user agent on a STB device e.g. those which are stored on the STB. Some of the references that an application can use include Environment Property references that provides access to variables on the platform and User Preference Item property references that allow the application to query manage user preferences on the STB. In accordance with one aspect of some embodiments of the present invention addressability within an application e.g. EBIF application is implemented by using a provision to extend exemplary EBIF User Preference items and Environment properties as a way of accessing the addressable qualifiers and other attributes from EBIF application. Thus in some embodiments exemplary user preference items and environment properties are specified that allow a target application to access and manage the qualifiers attributes specific to a subscriber as specified in the subscriber profile e.g. customer profile on the STB device and the target qualifier values received by and or included in an application.

Referring now briefly to another exemplary set of addressable qualifier values is shown for another household e.g. a household including multiple members unlike the household to which set corresponds. Addressable qualifier set maybe loaded onto a STB e.g. STB at customer premise N.

The exemplary set of addressable qualifier values includes information corresponding to individual customers located at the household to which the set corresponds as well as addressable qualifiers which are applicable to the household as a whole. The information corresponding to the individual members includes a row corresponding to each of the individual members of the household to which set corresponds with each column providing different information. For example column includes name information column includes age information column include sex information column includes income information column includes occupation information and column includes ethnicity information. Note that the members of the household vary in age sex occupation and at least in one member of the household ethnicity. The STB may not be able to determine which viewer is watching at a particular point in time and or may not include the full set of information for the various members of the household. In some such cases the information included in portion may be used e.g. average age value minimum age value and maximum age value for targeting purposes. However in some embodiments the STB determines which household member s information should be used at a particular time for determining if targeting constraints are satisfied by selecting the information corresponding to the household member most likely to be using viewing the output of the STB at a particular point in time based on the content being output and or the time of day. Information about the content being viewed e.g. the type of program being viewed such as cartoon soap opera news history adult content and or the programs rating is used by the set top box in some embodiments to make a determination as to which of the household members is the likely viewer. For example if a cartoon is being viewed the STB may select the information corresponding to the youngest member of the household as the constraint information to be used while the cartoon is being viewed. If the content being viewed is history or content which is more than 20 years old as indicated by program date information the STB may and in some embodiments does select the addressable qualifiers corresponding to the oldest user e.g. the qualifier values in the fourth row of portion to determine if one or more constraints have been satisfied. The time of day may and in some embodiments is used alone or in combination to select the information corresponding to one of the users to use in determining if a constraint is satisfied. For example the information corresponding to a middle aged user e.g the information in the first or third row of portion may be selected if content is being output by the STB between 8 pm and midnight. In view of the above discussion it should be appreciated that the STB may and in some embodiments does select the information corresponding to one of the household members to use to determine at a particular point in time if advertising and or other targeting constraints are satisfied with which particular set of user information is used being selected based on the time of day and or the content being output by the STB. The more general household parameters remain applicable at all time of day and are not specific to a particular user so the STB can use these parameters without concern over which of the users may be using the STB at a particular point in time.

As should be appreciated the set of information corresponding to individual household members may be and in some embodiments is omitted from the set . In at least some such embodiments the set includes the addressable qualifiers in portion but not those in portion . Alternatively a combination of qualifiers in portions and may be included or the values of a single household member may be used in place of the average age minimum age and maximum age value . It should be appreciated that while values and are not shown in the embodiment they may be included expressly in the set or derived as needed from the information included in the addressable qualifier set . The derivation of such values is straight forward given that the set corresponds to a single individual making the average age equal to the age of the individual and the minimum and maximum age values also equal to the age value of the individual.

As discussed above it should be appreciated that depending on the embodiment the addressable qualifiers for individual household members may be omitted and or the information for a single household member could be used rather than the general household information. In some embodiments where set top boxes are loaded with addressable qualifier set . While various examples are explained in the context of an example which uses the set it should be appreciated that the set of value could be used instead of the set with the set that is used being dependent on the household and number of individuals at a given household to which the STB implementing the method corresponds.

Using the features of some such embodiments at runtime the application can access the addressable values corresponding to various targeting qualifiers attributes and present the interactive UI corresponding to a set of targeting qualifier values and constraints that are satisfied by the addressable qualifier values included in an individual subscriber s profile. Thus UI and marketing applications e.g. product advertisements can be targeted and presented to specific subscribers based on the information included in the subscriber s profiles stored on their STBs.

Using the features implemented in some embodiments of the present invention the service provider can control and can devise different application behavior and present different UI screens based on the target group of subscribers.

Columns and include a target qualifier sets and logic operations in row respectively. Each row includes the target qualifier set and conditional logic which must be satisfied if the application portion included in column of the same row is to be executed. While shown as separate columns it should be appreciated that the information shown in columns and for a given row will normally be communicated together as part of a string or other expression which includes both target qualifier values and combination logic in a manner that sets forth a logical constraint that must be satisfied for the corresponding program portion to be executed. Thus constraints expressed by the combination of target qualifier set and logic operation set must be satisfied for the executable ad campaign program portion corresponding to user interface to be executed.

The target qualifier set includes target qualifier values corresponding to addressable qualifiers of interest with regard to an entity seeking to promote ad campaign user interface .

Exemplary application is used in some embodiments where addressability at application level is implemented e.g. where different portions of an application may be executed depending on which combination of target qualifier values and constraints are satisfied by the addressable qualifier values in the subscriber profile stored on the STB that receives and implements application . In at least some embodiments of the type illustrated in the TQS set and constraint information is delivered along with the application data executable application portions. However it should be appreciated that rather than include the actual executable application portions such as shown in column the executable portions can be identified by identification information such as that shown in column with the corresponding program portion being retrieved and or executed in response to the corresponding target qualifier set and conditions being satisfied by the information included in the subscriber profile stored on the STB.

The STB receiving the application processes the targeting information included in the application e.g. the targeting information included in columns and and performs a matching operation according to the specified conditional application logic. As part of the process the target qualifier values included in the target qualifier set shown in each row is compared to the corresponding values included in the subscriber profile If the constraints corresponding to an application portion are satisfied the STB executes the corresponding program portion e.g. presents a specific user interface from a plurality of user interfaces thereby targeting the application to the user and or implementing an ad campaign having targeting criteria which are satisfied by the user information stored in the subscriber profile on the STB.

In accordance with one aspect of some other embodiments addressability at a signaling level is achieved allowing an application to receive application elements e.g. application information and or executable application code in a stream along with application portion targeting information. The combination of application elements and or application portions and conditional logic is referred to herein as a set of program information.

Significantly in the embodiments a set top box need not load each of the three application portions and but only the one which is relevant and to be executed by the STB which process the application information sets .

In the B C examples columns communicate information of the type described with regard to column of . Columns communicate information of the type described with regard to column of . Similarly columns communicate information of the type described with regard to column while columns and communicate information of the type described with regard to column of . Application program portions are included in each of options elements in the embodiment e.g. with Application portion corresponding to a first ad campaign and or user interface application portion corresponding to the second ad campaign and or user interface and application portion corresponding to a third ad campaign and or user interface. Application portions may be independent and fully executable applications or application portions which are executed by another application e.g. an EBIF user agent or other module running on the STB which receives the program information sets .

In accordance with one aspect of some other embodiments addressability at signaling level is achieved by using privately defined application meta data item descriptors in addition to the regular descriptors that are carried over in an EISS PID in an MPEG 2 transport program stream. In some such embodiments a method to support addressability through signaling is implemented that uses the private meta data descriptors in signaling. Thus in some embodiments an exemplary specific descriptor is defined that carries a string payload in a well defined syntax that can constitute a predicate logic for specifying the targeting profile.

The user agent module in a STB device processes the signaling along with the targeting meta data and can decide which initial page resource corresponding to an application should be presented to the subscriber viewer based on the criteria match with the target profile on the set top box. In some embodiments if there is no match the user agent can resolve to the default resource in the signaling and present the default UI and or image corresponding to the application.

The advantage of this option is that the target group for the application can be specified independent of application authoring and can be specified dynamically by the campaign manager and or by the application scheduling system. Also this dynamic approach gives the flexibility to postpone the targeting decision until just right before the moment when the application is going to playout e.g. be executed.

The method starts in step with the set top box being placed into operation at a customer premise. Operation proceeds from start step to steps and which are performed asynchronously in parallel in some embodiments. Step shown using a dashed line box is optional and is performed in some embodiments but not necessarily in all embodiments. Step which is also shown using a dashed line box is optional and is performed as an alternative to step in some embodiments. However in some embodiments both steps and are performed to receive target qualifier values and conditional logic corresponding to an application and or application portion.

In step a request for a subscriber profile associated with the STB is sent e.g. to the addressability server or another server in the headend . In response to the request the addressability server sends the subscriber profile e.g. profile including one or more addressable qualifier values to the STB . When step is skipped operation proceeds from step to steps in addition to proceeding to steps and which correspond to parallel processing paths. Processing and the receipt of data applications and or application data may occur in a asynchronous manner with different data being received at different times. Accordingly it should be appreciated that while some processing paths are shown in parallel the operations from a time perspective may occur in a sequential manner or in parallel depending on when data is received.

In step the STB receives a subscriber profile associated with the STB e.g. subscriber profile including one or more addressable qualifier AQ values the one or more addressable qualifier values including at least one of an age value sex value income value or a service subscription value. In some embodiments step includes performing step . In step the STB receives one or more addressable qualifier AQ values on a periodic basis e.g. step is performed periodically. The periodically received AQ values may be new values corresponding the same or new addressable qualifiers specified by the addressability server . In some embodiments an updated subscriber profile is received periodically from the addressability server . Operation proceeds from step to step wherein the received subscriber profile is stored on the STB . Operation proceeds from step to step .

Referring to steps and . Steps and show two different approaches used in the present invention for communicating target qualifier TQ values corresponding to an application or an application element and conditional logic relating to the TQ values. In some embodiments step is performed wherein the TQ values and conditional logic are received with the application. In step the STB receives a set of target qualifier TQ values corresponding to a first portion of an application and conditions e.g. conditional logic relating to the set of target qualifier values in private EBIF user preference items. In some such embodiments the application is communicated along with applications elements targeting qualifier values and conditional logic to be applied to match the TQ values to the AQ values stored in the subscriber profile in the STB. In some embodiments the private EBIF user preference items include at least one private user preference item name which is prefixed with an x or X . Operation proceeds from step to step . In some embodiments the application is an EBIF application and the first portion of the application is one of a plurality of different user interface portions of said EBIF application. In some embodiments the first portion of said application is the entire EBIF application.

Referring now to step which is performed in some embodiments. Step illustrates an approach where TQ values corresponding to an application or an application element and the conditional logic relating to the TQ values are received via application signaling but not with the entire application. The corresponding application or application element may be downloaded when a matching criteria between the received TQ values and the AQ values in the subscriber profile is satisfied in accordance with the conditional logic relating to the received TQ values. In step the STB receives a set of target qualifier TQ values corresponding to a first portion of an application and conditions e.g. conditional logic relating to the set of target qualifier values in private metadata communicated over a program channel used to communicate a multimedia program. In some such embodiments the private metadata is MPEG compliant private metadata. In some such embodiments said application is an EBIF application and the first portion of the application is a first user interface portion of said application. In some embodiments the first user interface portion is one of a plurality of different user interface portions executable by a User Agent on the set top box depending on whether the conditional logic relating to the received TQ values corresponding to the first portion of the application are satisfied by the corresponding AQ values in the subscriber profile on the STB. Operation proceeds from step to step .

Returning now to step . In accordance with one feature of the invention in step a user agent on the STB performs an operation to determine if conditions e.g. conditional logical operations relating to the set of TQ values corresponding to the first portion of the application e.g. user interface initial page resource are satisfied by the one or more addressable qualifier values in the subscriber profile e.g. subscriber profile or depending on the STB implementing the method.

As discussed above in some embodiments the subscriber profile used in the STB corresponds to a single individual such as in the case of the example or multiple users such as in the case of the example where the household to which the STB implementing the method includes multiple e.g. 4 individual members for which individual information is available.

Option step s used in at least some embodiments to determine which qualifier values are to be used. Step may include selecting the target qualifier values corresponding to one of a plurality of household members to use at the point in time step is being implemented. The selection of which household member s target qualifier values is made in some embodiments based on the content being viewed and or the time of day. For example viewing and or outputting of cartoons would result in the qualifier values corresponding to the youngest household member being selected for use while watching of old programs or history programs would result in the oldest household member s target qualifier values being used. The qualifier values applicable to the household in general e.g. those in portion of the set would also be selected for use in step . Note that is normally skipped when there is information for only a single household member in the set of information or since there is no uncertainty as to which set of value should be used in such a case.

In various embodiments the step of determining includes performing a comparison operation shown in step and making a decision based on the comparison illustrated in step . In step the STB compares an addressable qualifier value in said subscriber profile to a corresponding target qualifier value in the set of target qualifier values received in step or to determine if a condition expressed as a logical operation between said addressable qualifier value in the subscriber profile and the corresponding target qualifier value is satisfied. For example the conditional logic may require the STB to compare an addressable qualifier value e.g. income value stored in the subscriber profile to a specified corresponding target qualifier value e.g. 50 000 to determine if a specified condition e.g. less than equal to greater than is satisfied. The condition may be a logical operator such as discussed above.

Next in step a decision is made regarding an action to be performed as part of the determination step based on the result of comparison and the operation proceeds according to the decision. Thus if the condition s are satisfied the operation proceeds from step to step otherwise the operation proceeds to step .

In step following the determination that condition s are satisfied the STB executes the first portion of the application. Operation proceeds from step to step wherein the user agent on the STB presents a user option and or content corresponding to the first portion of the application e.g. on a display device. The user option and or content may be an advertisement audio video clip text message an image etc.

Returning to the discussion of step . In step the STB checks if there are any additional set of target qualifier values corresponding to additional application portions and associated conditional logic which is satisfied by the addressable qualifier AQ values in the profile. It should be appreciated that the STB may receive additional set of target qualifier TQ values corresponding to other applications or application portions along with conditional logic to apply for comparing the TQ values to AQ values. Step is performed to check if there are any other application portions associated with a set of TQ values and conditional logic which is satisfied. If it is determined in step that there is another such application portion associated with a set of TQ values and conditional logic which is satisfied the operation proceeds from step to step otherwise the operation proceeds to step .

In step the STB executes the application portion associated with a combination of satisfied conditional logic and associated set of TQ values that is the STB executes the application portion for which the associated conditional logic relating to the TQ values is satisfied by the AQ values in the subscriber profile. Operation proceeds from step back to the beginning of processing and may continue as indicated by the loopback.

In step the STB executes a default application following the determination in step that there is no other application portion associated with a set of TQ values and conditional logic which is satisfied. Operation proceeds from step back to the beginning of processing with the loop representing that processing in the STB continues on an ongoing basis.

Drawing illustrates that STBs corresponding to two different household e.g. household 1 STB corresponding to household 1 and household 2 STB corresponding to household 2 have different corresponding subscriber profiles SP SP1 and stored on them respectively. Both STBs and have received the same ETV application and two target qualifier sets TQS1 and TQS2 including target qualifier values. TQS1 corresponds to a first portion of the ETV application which when executed displays an advertisement for a product PROD1 . TQS2 corresponds to a second portion of the ETV application which when executed displays an advertisement for a product PROD2 . In the example it is illustrated that the household 1 STB determines that the conditional logic relating to the TQS1 is satisfied by the addressable qualifier values in SP1 . Accordingly the STB executes the first portion of the ETV application and presents the advertisement for product PROD1 on the display device as should be appreciated from the figure.

On the other hand the household 2 STB determines that the conditional logic relating to the TQS2 is satisfied by the addressable qualifier values in SP . Accordingly the household 2 STB executes the second portion of the ETV application and presents the advertisement for product PROD2 on the display device as shown.

In various embodiments addressability at an application level is supported and used. is a block diagram showing exemplary operation of a STB implementing application level addressability.

In element represents the receipt of set top box addressability information data e.g. subscriber profile information which is stored on the STB. Box represents user agent operation on the STB. The STB uses targeting information included in a Private User Preference Item to determine which user interface to present to a user of the STB based on addressable qualifier values included in the subscriber profile stored on the STB. The EBIF application logic running on the STB boxes compares subscriber profile information to target qualifiers and determines which of the user interfaces should be presented by the STB based on matching results.

In the STB uses addressability at an application level and presents different application behavior and or presents different visual sub elements for different target groups. In this scenario multiple STBs in the system may run the same application but the behavior of the application can and often will be different based on the target group the set top belongs to.

In the example set top box addressability information data e.g. a subscriber profile is supplied to and stored on the STB. In addition a private metadata item descriptor used for targeting is supplied to the STB e.g. in an MPEG stream.

The user agent processes the private metadata item comparing targeting criteria information included therein to information e.g. addressable qualifiers in the subscriber profile information to determine which of the page resources should be loaded and executed. Assuming the targeting criteria corresponding to page resources are satisfied they will be loaded and executed as represented by blocks shown at the top of . However if some of the targeting criteria are not satisfied the page resources whose targeting criteria are not satisfied will not be downloaded and executed e.g. displayed. Thus the application portions and or application s which are downloaded and executed will vary in the embodiment from STB to STB depending on the contents of the subscriber profile stored on the particular STB.

As shown in some embodiments the customer device is coupled e.g. via an interface to a display device e.g. a television TV or another device for presenting program content. In some embodiments the output device is integral to the customer device or coupled as shown via a communications interface. The customer device includes various modules which are configured to perform the functions operations corresponding to the steps illustrated in flowchart . Completely hardware based or completely software based modules may be used. However it should be appreciated that any combination of software and hardware e.g. circuit implemented modules may be used to implement the functions. As should be appreciated the modules used in the customer device control and or configure the customer device or elements therein such as the processor to perform the functions of the corresponding steps illustrated and or described in the method of flowchart of . In some embodiments one or more modules together perform the operation corresponding to one or more steps shown in flowchart .

The customer device includes an Input Output I O interface a processor a codec Coder Decoder and a storage device e.g. a memory coupled together via a bus . The various elements of the customer device can exchange data and information over the bus . Via the I O interface the secure device can exchange signals and or information with other devices and or system elements such as the servers in the network headend via the communications network .

The I O interface includes a receiver and a transmitter that support the receipt and or transmission of content and or other information from to different servers. In some embodiments the I O interface also includes e.g. an infrared signal receiver to receive signals from a user remote control device. In some embodiments the I O interface includes an in built modem which supports receiving content. In some embodiments the receiver is configured to receive a subscriber profile associated with the set top box including one or more addressable qualifier values said one or more addressable qualifier values including at least one of an age value sex value income value or service subscription value. In some embodiments the receiver is further configured to perform the functions discussed with regard to steps .

The processor e.g. a CPU executes routines and one or more modules and controls the customer device to operate in accordance with the invention. To control the customer device the processor uses information various modules and or routines including instructions stored in memory . The Codec is implemented as a module and is capable of performing encoding and or decoding operations on a digital data stream or signal.

In addition to the routines the memory in some embodiments includes a determination module an application control module a presentation control module a request generation module received subscriber profile received set of target qualifier values e.g. set of target qualifier values corresponding to a first portion of an application and one or more applications .

Routines include communications routines and or control routines. The determination module is configured to determine if conditions relating to a set of target qualifier values corresponding to a first portion of an application are satisfied by the one or more addressable qualifier values in said subscriber profile. The determination module may include one or more sub modules and performs the functions corresponding to step discussed with regard to . For example the determination module includes a comparison module configured to compare an addressable qualifier value in said subscriber profile to a corresponding target qualifier value in said set of target qualifier values to determine if a condition expressed as a logical operation between said addressable qualifier value in the subscriber profile and the corresponding target qualifier value is satisfied.

The application control module is configured to execute said first portion of said application when it is determined that said conditions relating to the set of target qualifier values corresponding to the first portion of said application are satisfied by said one or more addressable qualifier values in said subscriber profile. The presentation control module is configured to present a user option and or content corresponding to the executed application or application portion e.g. on the display device . The user option and or content may be an advertisement audio video clip text message an image etc. The request generation module is configured to generate a request for the subscriber profile including said at least one addressable qualifier value and send the request to a server e.g. via the I O interface . In some embodiments the subscriber profile including at least one addressable qualifier value is received by the customer device in response to the request.

The received subscriber profile is stored in the memory and may be updated periodically in accordance with the invention. One or more sets of target qualifier values such as received set of target qualifier values may be received from time to time and are stored in the memory .

Embodiments and examples relating to Addressability at Application Level in EBIF applications will now be described. CableLabs ETV EBIF specification defines a binary format for ETV application that can consist of many EBIF resources including an initial page resource and additional data image resources. The page resource contains the UI layout and the application logic while the image resource can carry PNG JPEG images. The specification also defines a reference model for application to refer to different variables and data elements within the application and the ones exposed by the user agent. Environment Property reference is one of the many reference type defined in the reference table of the EBI resource that provides access to variables on the platform. Also there is also User Preference Item property reference which allows the application to query manage user preferences on the set top.

For implementing addressability within an EBIF application the novel approach to targeting of the present invention extends the EBIF User Preference items and Environment properties as a way of accessing the addressable qualifiers and other attributes from EBIF application. Using this interface at runtime the application logic can access the values of various targeting qualifiers attributes to determine which group the set top subscriber belongs to and present the interactive UI accordingly.

The advantage of this option is that the application author has control and can devise different application behavior and different UI screens based on the target group. The disadvantage of this option is that the application has to change if the target group has to change.

The ETV EISS specification allows for privately defined application meta data item descriptors. The technique implemented to support addressability through signaling uses this private meta data descriptor in signaling. For this purpose in some embodiments a novel specific descriptor is defined that carries a string payload in a well defined syntax that can constitute a predicate logic for specifying the targeting profile.

The User Agent operating on the STB processes the signaling along with this targeting meta data and can decide which initial page resource to be presented to the viewer based on the criteria match with the target profile on the set top. If there is no match the user agent can resolve to the default resource in signaling.

The advantage of this option is that the target group for the application can be specified independent of application authoring and can be specified dynamically by the campaign manager and or by the application scheduling system. Also this dynamic approach gives the flexibility to postpone the targeting decision right before the moment when the application is going to playout e.g. be executed.

Various exemplary features will now be described in the context of an exemplary implementation in which an EBIF User Agent running on a STB implements addressability functionality supporting targeted advertisements in accordance with the present invention. Examples of a suitable format for an Addressability Qualifier Set AQS used in some embodiments will be described below. Also how to deliver and manage addressability data to a STB how to refer to that data by EBIF application etc. will be described Also described are approaches to how to achieve targeting including what the Targeting Qualifier Set format TQS can and in some embodiments is and how a User Agent can use the TQS data in combination with received application targeting rules e.g. constraint logic in deciding whether or not to launch a targeted application portion e.g. an entire application or sub element of an application are described.

In some embodiment the Addressability Qualifier Set format that is used is transparent to the ETV EBIF User Agent operating on the STBs. A Client Platform sometime referred to herein by the identifier DN which stands for Digital Naviator is also implemented in some embodiment in the STB. The Client platform is responsible in some embodiments for managing e.g. storing and or obtaining updates to an Addressability Qualifier Set e.g. a subscriber profile cached in the STB on which the Client Platform is installed and running. In some embodiments Client Platform APIs are provided to allow a User Agent on the STB to access the subscriber profile information e.g. including AQ values included in the stored subscriber profile via the Client Platform.

In some embodiments a Client Platform DN downloads and manages the AQS and provides APIs for User Agent to query Qualifier s values by name.

In some embodiments a User Agent on a STB implements an event mechanism to notify an EBIF application of an AQS update event.

In some embodiments EBIF Applications access targeting information in a manner consistent with the current version of the EBIF standard using what are known as a Private User Preference Items.

For example if a qualifier name is HBOSubsciption the corresponding private user preference item name would be x HBOSubscription in some embodiments.

The Client Platform DN may implement this access policy. The DN APIs return success if access is OK. Otherwise return failure. That is if the specified Private User Preference Item s and the corresponding logical constraints are satisfied success of the constraints for implementing a corresponding application or application part will be determined and the corresponding application part will be executed and or otherwise used by the User Agent running on the STB. Otherwise the application corresponding to constraints will not be executed.

In EBIF specification private user preference item maybe associated with an application having an identical Organization Identifier to an Organization Identifier included in the private user preference item. Thus whether a private user preference constraint is satisfied depends in at least some embodiments on use of information corresponding to the same organization as the Organization Identified by the Organization Identifier included in the private user preference item. For example in some embodiments satisfaction of a private user preference including a TWC identifier is determined to be satisfied or not using information included in a subscriber profile associated with e.g. including the same Organization Identifier e.g. TWC as the private user preference constraint being checked.

For targeting a User Agent on a STB determines the access compatibility based on DN API s return result mentioned above i.e. success or failure of a specified targeting constraint.

The private user preference items defined by the Addressable Qualifier Set are not mutable in some embodiments.

AQS Name is case insensitive value type should be well defined like String Integer Boolean Integer Range String Range etc. Detailed definitions are outside of this document s scope.

A User Agent retrieves AQS values by name through DN APIs. So the AQS data format is transparent to User Agent running on the STB.

The following exemplary STB profiles show 5 addressable qualifiers available for targeting purposes e.g. available to EBIF targeting applications. The exemplary subscriber profiles are loaded onto the STB corresponding to the subscriber to which the profile relates. The subscriber profiles include addressable qualifiers which are consistent with and intended to be used in a system where the above exemplary AQS set is used. In the following exemplary subscriber profiles the addressable qualifier name precedes the value of the addressable qualifier.

EBIF targeted applications may be associated with a Targeting Qualifier Set which includes targeting qualifiers which are a subset of a STB s Addressability Qualifier Set plus one or more logical set operators such as All Any or None that are used when determining if the qualifier values in a TQS match the corresponding addressable qualifier values in a STB s AQS.

In some embodiments TQS data is formatted in an EBIF data resource with multiple tables each table includes matching logic an application lid local identifier and a set of qualifiers for matching purposes.

Targeting Qualifier Set location information is delivered to STBs along with the STBs associated application signaling. TQS information maybe and in some embodiments are communicated to a STB in an Application Information Descriptor s private data field e.g. as private Metadata in a MPEG transport or program stream.

In some embodiment the Targeting Qualifier Set includes data provided in a standard EBIF data resource format. For example if the EBIF resource is generated using TvWorks XDK authoring tool the following is an example of what its XML file looks like 

Targeting Approach 1 Platform software User Agent applies matching logic of All Any or None to dispatch the matched EBIF application.

According to TQS described above the matched application will be launched. Otherwise the default EBIF application defined in normal Application Information Descriptor s initial page resource will be launched.

In such an embodiment an ETV User Agent operating on a STB is responsible for retrieving the TQS data information including a targeted application URL logical set operator value and or matching name value pairs. Once the User Agent gets this information it will download the application from an EBIF carousel e.g. includes in the network headend and run the targeted application.

Targeting Approach 2 A Single EBIF application applies the targeting logic itself by querying addressability qualifiers by name. Then based on the targeting rules it can apply the matched resources to display the targeted UIs etc.

In various embodiments system elements described herein are implemented using one or more modules which are used to perform the steps corresponding to one or more methods of the present invention for example receiving user inputs receiving a subscriber profile associated with a customer device e.g. a set top box determining if conditions relating to a set of target qualifier values corresponding to a portion of an application are satisfied by the one or more addressable qualifier values in received subscriber profile executing at least a portion of an application on the customer device.

In the above described methods in some embodiments each step may be performed by one or more different software instructions executed by a computer processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU . At least one system implemented in accordance with the present invention includes a means for implementing each of the various steps which are part of the methods of the present invention. Each means may be e.g. an instruction processor hardware circuit and or combination of elements used to implement a described step. In some embodiments various modules used in the devices and or systems described above can be implemented in hardware e.g. as individual circuits. Alternatively the modules may be implemented in software and stored in the memory of the device server system. Completely hardware based or completely software based modules may be used. However it should be appreciated that any combination of software and hardware e.g. circuit implemented modules may be used to implement various functions.

While described in the context of EBIF applications it should be appreciated that the methods and apparatus of the present invention are not limited to EBI applications. In addition while described in the context of STB applications the methods and apparatus of the present invention can be used in other devices such as handheld content playback devices and or other media playback devices. In such cases the target qualifier sets would be received and stored in the device implementing the method with the addressable qualifier set including values based on the user of the handheld or other media playback device.

Many of the above described methods or method steps can be implemented using machine e.g. computer executable instructions such as software included in a non transitory machine e.g. computer readable medium used to control a machine e.g. general purpose computer with or without additional hardware to implement all or portions of the above described methods e.g. in one or more nodes. The machine readable medium may be e.g. a memory device e.g. RAM floppy disk etc. Accordingly among other things the present invention is directed to a machine readable medium including machine executable instructions for causing a machine e.g. processor and associated hardware to perform one or more of the steps of the above described method s .

Numerous additional embodiments within the scope of the present invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in view of the above description and the claims which follow.

