---

title: Electronic shipping notifications
abstract: A broker facilitates customer purchases from merchants. Shippers ship shipments containing the purchases from merchants to the customers. A shipper identifies a shipment using a shipment identifier. The broker uses the shipment identifier to obtain the status information for the shipment from the shipper. The broker analyzes the status information in combination with other information to calculate an estimate of the time that the shipment will arrive at the customer's address. The broker sends an electronic message, such as an email or text message, to the customer prior to the estimated shipment arrival time to inform the customer of the impending arrival. The customer can thus arrange for someone to be at the shipping address to receive the shipment at the estimated arrival time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08311952&OS=08311952&RS=08311952
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08311952
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120302
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 173 925 filed Jun. 30 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 627 257 filed Jan. 25 2007. Each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention pertains in general to electronic commerce and more specifically to electronic notifications related to shipping of physical items.

Electronic commerce on the Internet has become commonplace. There are many merchants offering items via web sites on the Internet and there are an even greater number of customers who purchase the items. In many cases the customers purchase physical items such as electronics foodstuffs compact disks DVDs and books. The merchants deliver the items to the customers using shipping companies such as the United States Postal Service USPS Federal Express United Parcel Service UPS etc. These shippers deliver shipments to the addresses specified by the customers usually either the customers home or work addresses.

Many shippers require the customer or another person to be present in order to receive the shipment. Therefore the customer must ensure that someone is at the specified address at the time of delivery. To assist the customers in their planning the shippers provide the customers with tracking numbers for the shipments. The customers provide the tracking numbers to web sites and or interactive voice response IVR telephone systems operated by the shippers and or merchants in order to gain status information about the shipments such as the estimated delivery dates. A customer then ensures that someone is at the address on the estimated delivery date.

One drawback to the system described above is that the status information is often not very precise. The status information might include an overly conservative and incorrect delivery date prediction. Moreover even if the delivery date prediction is correct the status information does not provide the likely time of delivery. As a result the person receiving the shipment must plan to remain at the delivery address for the entire day or even for multiple days or risk missing the delivery. This waiting can be extremely inconvenient for people who work or have other obligations that make it difficult to remain at the shipping address. One possible solution to this problem is to ship the item to the customer s work or to another address where someone is usually available to accept the shipment. However this solution is not ideal for items that are difficult to transport.

Methods systems and computer program products consistent with the principles of the invention address this and other needs by providing customers with estimates of the times of arrival of shipments.

In accordance with an aspect of the invention a method provides notification of impending delivery of a shipment shipped by a shipper to a shipping address specified by a customer. The method includes interfacing with a shipper computer system provided by the shipper to determine status information for the shipment calculating an estimated delivery time for the shipment responsive to the status information and notifying the customer via an electronic message of an impending arrival of the shipment at the shipping address responsive to the estimated delivery time.

According to another aspect a system for providing notification of impending delivery of a shipment shipped by a shipper to a shipping address specified by a customer. The system includes a shipper interface module for interfacing with a shipper computer system provided by the shipper to determine status information for the shipment. Further an embodiment of the system includes an arrival calculation module for calculating an estimated delivery time for the shipment responsive to the status information and an arrival notification module for notifying the customer via an electronic message of an impending arrival of the shipment at the shipping address responsive to the estimated delivery time.

According to yet another aspect a computer program product includes a computer readable medium having computer program code tangibly embodied thereon for predicting a time of delivery of a shipment containing an item ordered by a customer in an electronic commerce system. The computer program code includes code for establishing a customer address to which a shipper is to deliver the shipment analyzing historical delivery information for the shipper the historical delivery information describing the shipper s times of delivery to a plurality of addresses and predicting the time of delivery of the shipment to the customer address responsive to the analysis of the historical delivery information.

The figures depict an embodiment of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

In one embodiment the customer includes a computer system utilized by an end user to communicate with other computers on the network in order to effect a purchase. The computer system for example can be a personal computer executing a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER that allows the end user to retrieve and display content from web servers and other computer systems on the network . In other embodiments the customer includes a network capable device other than a computer system such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone a pager a television set top box etc. The computer system need not include any special functionality in order to receive the electronic shipping notifications described herein. Although illustrates only one customer embodiments of the present invention can have thousands or millions of customers participating in the electronic commerce system described herein. Only one customer is illustrated in order to simplify and clarify the present description.

Similarly the merchant represents an entity that sells items on the network or makes items available through other types of transactions. The merchant offering an item to the customer is sometimes referred to as the seller and the transaction is sometimes referred to as a sale or purchase. As used herein these terms also refer to other types of transactions regardless of whether the merchant is technically a seller or the transaction is technically a sale. Although illustrates only a single merchant embodiments of the present invention can have many merchants participating in the electronic commerce system. Only one merchant is illustrated in order to simplify and clarify the present description.

In one embodiment the merchant includes a computer system acting as a web server that is utilized to offer the items to potential customers . The merchant is said to be online meaning that the merchant provides a presence on the network . The items offered by the merchant can include tangible items such as books CDs DVDs digital cameras and other types of electronic goods etc. The items offered by the merchant can also include intangible items such as services and electronic content such as web pages downloadable files streaming media etc.

In one embodiment the merchant allows customers to shop using a shopping cart metaphor. A customer places an item in a virtual shopping cart. When the customer desires to purchase the items in the shopping cart the customer chooses a purchase option or equivalent on the merchant s web site. The merchant encodes information describing the transaction in the virtual shopping cart. This information identifies the item the quantity of the item being purchased and the cost of the item. In addition the information in the cart includes data about the transaction including data describing shipping options and taxes to collect.

The broker represents an entity that serves as an intermediary for the transaction between the customer and the merchant . In one embodiment the broker operates a system that functions as a centralized place that the customers can use to pay for items offered by the merchants . Thus the customers can patronize multiple merchants while providing their payment information to only the broker . Although illustrates only a single broker embodiments of the present invention can have multiple brokers participating in the electronic commerce system. In one embodiment the broker is said to be remote from the customer and or merchant . Remote in this context means that the broker is logically separate from the customer and or merchant and does not necessarily refer to a physical distance between the entities. In some embodiments the broker is absent and the functionality ascribed to the broker herein is performed by the merchant shipper and or another entity on the network .

In one embodiment the broker is within a different domain than the customer and or merchant . As used here the term domain generally refers to a sphere of influence. A broker and merchant are in different domains when they are independent of each other and lack a shared point of control. There is not necessarily a relationship between the domain in which a broker and or merchant reside and the domain names utilized by those entities on the network although the use of different domain names may constitute evidence that the broker and merchant are independent and thus in different domains. In some embodiments the broker is within the same domain as some customers and or merchants and in a different domain than other customers and or merchants.

In one embodiment the broker receives a customer s shopping cart from the merchant and or the customer . The broker conducts a transaction with the customer to enable the customer to purchase the items in the shopping cart. During the transaction the broker provides one or more web pages to the customer that allow the broker to learn information about the customer and transaction such as the customer s shipping address payment information and or a coupon code. In one embodiment the broker provides the customer with only a single web page and the broker dynamically updates portions of the web page as the customer selects the options for the transaction. For example the broker updates the web page in real time to display actual shipping costs when the user provides a shipping address and or selects a shipping method.

The shipper interacts with the merchant and or broker to ship purchased items to the customers . In one embodiment the shipper is a major package delivery service such as the United States Postal Service USPS Federal Express United Parcel Service UPS or DHL International. In other embodiments the shipper is a different or smaller delivery service a common carrier a shipping service provided by the merchant or broker and or another shipping agency.

In one embodiment the shipper obtains information about the shipment from the merchant and or broker picks up a shipment containing a purchased item from the merchant and delivers the shipment to the customer s specified shipping address. The shipper associates a shipment identifier e.g. a tracking number with the shipment and provides the shipment identifier to the merchant and or broker . In addition the shipper provides a network interface that the merchant broker and or customer can use to provide the shipment identifier and access status information for the shipment. The interface can include for example a web site a web services based application programming interface API and or another electronic interface enabling network based exchanges of information. In some embodiments the shipper provides additional and or different interfaces such as an interactive voice response IVR telephone interface. The status information describes aspects of the shipment including for example the date that the shipment was picked up from the merchant the estimated date that the shipment will be delivered to the customer and the current location of the shipment.

In one embodiment the broker uses the shipment identifier to access the shipper s interface and obtain the status information for the shipment. The broker analyzes the status information to calculate a precise estimate of the time that the shipment will arrive at the customer s address. The broker sends an electronic message such as an email or text message to the customer prior to the estimated shipment arrival time to inform the customer of the impending arrival. The customer can thus arrange for someone to be at the shipping address to receive the shipment at the estimated arrival time.

The network represents communication pathways between the customer merchant broker and shipper . In one embodiment the network is the Internet. The network can also utilize dedicated or private communications links that are not necessarily part of the Internet such as mobile phone communications networks. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 integrated services digital network ISDN digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP the short message service SMS protocol etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML etc. In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the secure sockets layer SSL HTTP over SSL HTTPS and or virtual private networks VPNs . In another embodiment the entities can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

The processor may be any general purpose processor such as an INTEL x86 compatible CPU. The storage device is in one embodiment a hard disk drive but can also be any other device capable of storing data such as a writeable compact disk CD or DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory may be for example firmware read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM and or RAM and holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device may be a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer system . The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer system to the network .

As is known in the art the computer system is adapted to execute computer program modules. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic and or data for providing the specified functionality. A module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment the modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computer systems utilized by the entities of can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power utilized by the entity. For example the customer typically requires less processing power than the merchant and broker . Thus the customer computer system can be a standard personal computer system or a mobile telephone. The merchant and broker computer systems in contrast may comprise more powerful computers and or multiple computers working together to provide the functionality described herein.

A customer communications module communicates with the customer via the network . In one embodiment the customer communications module includes a web server that provides web pages to the customer and receives end user input sent over the network by the customer s web browser. The customer communications module thus allows a customer to navigate the merchant s web site.

In one embodiment a broker communications module communicates with the broker via the network . In one embodiment merchant broker communications are conducted using the web services description language WSDL . The broker communications module uses WSDL to describe the services it provides and ascertain the services provided by the broker . The broker communications module uses XML based remote procedure calls RPCs to provide information to the broker and receive information in return. In other embodiments the broker communications module communicates with the broker using other techniques and or protocols such as via email messages HTML web pages intended for review by human users proprietary communications protocols etc.

A shipper communications module communicates with the shipper via the network . In some embodiments the shipper communications module is functionally similar to the broker communications module and uses WSDL or equivalent techniques to communicate with a shipper via the shipper s API. In other embodiments the shipper communications module uses other techniques to communicate with the shipper .

A commerce module operates in tandem with the customer communications module and allows customers to engage in electronic commerce with the merchant . In general the commerce module allows the merchant to create and manage a catalog of items available for sale. A customer can browse the catalog and indicate items that the customer desires to purchase. In one embodiment the commerce module includes functionality from the open source osCommerce package. The commerce module utilizes a shopping cart metaphor where items selected by the customer are placed in a virtual shopping cart. The merchant provides this shopping cart to the broker .

When this description refers to placing or storing an item in a cart it should be understood that a virtual representation of the item is actually stored and not the item itself. In one embodiment this virtual representation includes information describing the item including the name price and quantity of the item a textual description of the item a merchant identification ID that uniquely identifies the merchant and or private merchant data that might be opaque to entities other than the merchant . Further in one embodiment the commerce module places information in the shopping cart describing possible shipping methods and costs anticipated shipping dates and or order processing times for given items. In one embodiment the commerce module digitally signs the shopping cart to prevent third parties from modifying it.

In one embodiment the commerce module encodes the shopping cart using XML. The broker or another entity provides an XML schema definition XSD to the merchant that describes how to encode the item information tax information and other information in the shopping cart. The merchant creates the shopping cart according to the XSD.

In one embodiment the commerce module provides the customer with one or more payment options at the time of checkout. One option references a payment system provided by the broker . The broker s payment system may be more desirable to a customer when for example the merchant is not well known to the customer. The broker may be well known to the customer and an entity to which the customer is comfortable providing payment information. In one embodiment the commerce module provides a graphic slogan and or other indicia that represents the broker and is designed to convey a sense of trustworthiness to the customer .

When the customer selects the broker payment system or at another time the commerce module uses the customer communications module to provide the shopping cart to the customer and direct the customer s web browser to send it to the broker . The commerce module can perform this latter task for example by using a HTTP GET method that codes the shopping cart into a uniform resource locator URL that references the broker and redirecting the customer s browser to the coded URL. In another example the commerce module uses a HTTP POST method that codes the shopping cart into the body of a request made from the customer s browser to the broker . In another embodiment the commerce module uses the broker communications module to send the shopping cart directly to the broker .

Although this description refers to the collection of information created by the commerce module as a shopping cart it will be understood that this phrase refers to a collection of information utilized to inform the broker about the items selected by the customer . In one embodiment for example the commerce module creates one or more sets of data describing items that the customer desires to purchase and provides the sets of data to the broker . The broker in turn stores the sets of data in one or more shopping carts it maintains on behalf of the customer . Thus the merchant provides the broker with item descriptions rather than virtual shopping carts.

The broker includes a customer communications module and a merchant communications module for respectively communicating with the customer and the merchant . In one embodiment these modules are functionally similar to the customer and broker communications modules in the merchant .

A customer account module maintains account information for customers seeking to use the broker for purchases. In one embodiment the customer account module maintains an ID password and or other information for each customer . The customer supplies the correct information in order to identify and authenticate itself. In addition the customer account module maintains additional information about the customer such as one or more shipping addresses utilized by the customer payment information such as credit card numbers and billing addresses and contact information such as a mailing address email address and or mobile or regular telephone numbers. Further an embodiment of the customer account module also maintains other preferences selected by the customer such as preferred shipping options notification options and the like.

The shopping cart module maintains a set of shopping carts for the customers . The shopping cart module receives the shopping carts from the merchant from the customer and or from other sources. In one embodiment the shopping cart module maintains a single shopping cart for each customer . In other embodiments the shopping cart module maintains multiple shopping carts per customer . Depending upon the embodiment the shopping carts store items from a single merchant or from multiple merchants. In one embodiment the shopping cart module deletes shopping carts that have not been accessed within a certain time period e.g. 90 days .

A purchase transaction module allows a customer to purchase the items in a selected shopping cart. In one embodiment the purchase transaction module presents the customer with web pages that describe the items in the cart and allow the customer to specify the methods of payment and shipping along with any other details that are necessary and or desired for the transaction. The purchase transaction module uses the shipping address specified by the customer and any shipping rules received from the merchant to calculate the rates for the customer s selected shipping method. In one embodiment the purchase transaction module stores the shipping costs as an invisible item in the shopping cart.

A shipping coordination module interacts with the merchant and or shipper to inform them of the purchase and coordinate shipping of the purchased item or items to the customer . In addition the shipping coordination module provides the customer with notice of the impending arrival of the shipment. In one embodiment the shipping coordination module sends a message to the merchant each time the broker conducts a purchase transaction on behalf of the merchant. This message is sent using SMS or via another technique. The message and or subsequent messages also provide the customer indicated shipping address and shipping options to the merchant . The merchant coordinates with the shipper and provides the shipment identifier to the shipping coordination module . In another embodiment the shipping coordination module directly interacts with the shipper to obtain the shipment identifier and instruct the shipper to ship the shipment from the merchant to the customer .

An accounting module monitors the transactions that occur using the broker invoices the customers and credits the merchants and or shippers . In a typical case the accounting module charges the customer s credit card or other method of payment and credits the merchant s account for the amount of the purchase. In another embodiment the accounting module aggregates purchases made by the customers and then periodically credits each merchant for the value of the purchases made within the time period. In yet another embodiment the accounting module aggregates a customer s purchases within a given time period and then charges the customer s account once for the aggregate total of the purchases. This latter embodiment might be desirable where for example the customer makes many small purchases.

A customer support module allows customers to request refunds and or perform other customer support related tasks. In one embodiment the broker provides a satisfaction guarantee and allows customers to obtain refunds on purchases with relative ease. This refund policy provides the customers with added security and may make the customers more willing to purchase items from relatively unknown and or untrustworthy merchants .

In one embodiment a searching interface module provides the customers with access to content searching capabilities. These capabilities allow a customer to provide the searching interface module with a search query that specifies search parameters such as keywords meta data describing desired results and or other information and receive in return a list of content that at least partially satisfies the query. In one embodiment the search query is generated implicitly based on actions performed by the customer and or other criteria. In one embodiment the searching interface module interfaces with a search engine provided by GOOGLE INC. of Mountain View Calif. The search engine searches for content shopping carts and or items provided by the merchants that satisfy the queries. In one embodiment the search engine also searches other domains.

A shipper interface module communicates with the shipper via the network . In one embodiment the shipper interface module is functionally similar to the shipper communications module described above with respect to the merchant . Thus an embodiment of the shipper interface module uses WSDL to access a shipper s API and communicate with the shipper . In other embodiments the shipper interface module uses other techniques to communicate with the shipper .

As mentioned previously in one embodiment the shipping coordination module uses the shipper interface module to instruct the shipper to make a shipment from the merchant to the customer specified shipping address. In another embodiment the merchant coordinates the shipping. In either embodiment the broker obtains the shipment identifier utilized by the shipper to identify the shipment. The shipper interface module uses the shipment identifier to query the shipper and receives status information for the shipment in return.

Different shippers may provide different types of status information. Most shippers provide information including the shipping method e.g. air or ground the date that the shipment was picked up from the merchant the estimated date that the shipment will be delivered to the customer and the current location of the shipment. In addition the status information often indicates other important events in the transit of the shipment such as whether the shipment is subject to any exceptions that might delay delivery and whether the shipment has been placed on the truck for delivery. Once the shipment is delivered the status information indicates the exact date and time of delivery. Further some shippers provide status information indicating the delivery address for the shipment the number of individual packages forming the shipment and or the weight of the shipment.

An arrival calculation module uses the status information to calculate a precise estimate of the time when a shipment will arrive at the customer s address. In one embodiment a scheduler module schedules queries of the shipper to obtain status information utilized to calculate the arrival estimate time. For a given shipment the scheduler module schedules queries to the shipper to obtain the status information for the shipment. Sometimes the shipper will not populate the status information until well after the shipment has been picked up from the merchant. Therefore the status information for a shipment might not be populated when the shipping coordination module first queries the shipper for it. One embodiment of the scheduler module schedules queries of the shipper once a day for up to five days or until at least the estimated delivery date field is populated.

An embodiment of the scheduler module also schedules a query of the shipper on the day before the estimated delivery date indicated by a shipment s status information. Many shippers conservatively estimate the delivery date and in fact frequently deliver the shipment a day earlier. If the status information shows that the shipment is not being delivered on the day before the estimated delivery date an embodiment of the scheduler module schedules another query for the estimated day of delivery. If the estimated delivery date slips or otherwise changes the scheduler module schedules another query of the shipper based on the changed delivery date estimate. Some embodiments of the scheduler module schedule queries based on other criteria such as the shipping method. For example the scheduler module can schedule more frequent queries for shipments sent using an overnight service.

In one embodiment the scheduler module schedules the shipper queries for the morning in the local time zone of the delivery address such as between 6 00 and 8 00 AM. A query at this time of day is likely to determine the status of the shipment before it is delivered. For example in a typical scenario the shipper will load a shipment onto a truck in the morning and then deliver the shipment later in the day. Thus an 8 00 AM status query will ascertain that the shipment is on the truck to be delivered but not delivered as of yet.

An arrival prediction module analyzes the status information for a shipment to predict a precise estimate of the time that the shipment will be delivered at the customer s shipping address. For purposes of this description a precise delivery time estimate is one that is limited to a relatively brief time window. For example a precise estimate can state that delivery will be made within a two hour window or that the delivery will occur within a 15 minute window. An estimated delivery time window that encompasses an entire day in contrast is not precise. Likewise an estimated delivery time window that not limited to particular times e.g. delivery will be in the morning is not precise.

In one embodiment the arrival prediction module aggregates and analyzes historical status information for other shipments delivered by the shipper in order to calculate a likely delivery time for a current shipment. In one embodiment the arrival prediction module analyzes delivery times for other shipments to addresses geographically proximate to the current shipping address. In some embodiments the arrival predication module analyzes other factors instead of or in addition to historical status information and or geographic proximity to past shipping addresses in order to calculate the estimated delivery time. For example the arrival predication module can consider the distance from the shipper s depot to the shipping address the day of the week the date current or predicted weather conditions shipment weight the delivery method etc. Thus the arrival prediction module may determine that shipments delivered to a particular apartment building by a particular shipper typically arrive at 11 45 AM. Similarly the arrival predication module may determine that 90 of shipments to a particular residential neighborhood are delivered between 9 30 10 30 AM.

An arrival notification module sends notice of the precise estimate of the delivery time to the customer . In one embodiment the arrival notification module sends the notification upon determining that the shipment will arrive on the current day. For example the module sends the delivery time estimate to the customer once the arrival calculation module determines that the shipment is on the truck for delivery. In some embodiments the arrival notification module sends the notification to the customer based on the estimated delivery time. For example the arrival notification module sends a notification of impending delivery 30 or 60 minutes before the estimated delivery time. In one embodiment the customer can optionally specify when the notification is sent e.g. whether notification is sent 15 minutes or 2 hours before the estimated delivery time. In addition the arrival notification module can send the delivery time estimate to the customer at other times such as when the status information first indicates an estimated delivery date or when exception information indicates that the shipment will be delayed.

The arrival notification module sends the delivery time estimate to the customer using one or more of a variety of techniques. The arrival notification module can send a text message to the customer s mobile phone or other text messaging compatible device. The text messages can include for example Short Message Service SMS messages Enhanced Messaging Service EMS messages Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages and or messages of other types. Likewise the arrival notification module can send email messages to a customer s mobile phone computer or other device capable of receiving email messages. Further the arrival notification module can place a telephone call to the customer and play an audible message that states the delivery time estimate. Other embodiments of the notification module use other techniques to notify the customer of the estimated delivery time such as by stating the estimated delivery time on a web page accessible to the customer .

A data store stores data utilized by the shipping coordination module during its operation. In some embodiments the data store is dedicated to the shipping coordination module while in other embodiments the data store stores other data utilized by the broker such as data utilized by the modules illustrated in . The data in the data store include for example shipment identifiers for shipments based on purchases made through the broker status information retrieved from shippers and shipping addresses telephone numbers and notification preferences specified by the customers and or merchants . Likewise an embodiment of the data store stores historical delivery information and other data utilized by the arrival calculation module to produce the precise delivery time estimates. Some embodiments store different and or additional data in the data store . In one embodiment the data store includes one or more relational databases having tables storing information about the customers and merchants .

In the broker brokers a sale of an item from a merchant to a customer . As part of this transaction the customer specifies a shipping address. In turn the merchant uses a shipper to send a shipment containing the item to the customer . The shipper associates a shipment identifier with the shipment and provides the identifier to the broker either directly or via the merchant .

The broker interfaces with the shipper via an API to obtain status information for the shipment. In one embodiment the broker schedules one or more queries to the shipper for the status information and continues to query the shipper at regular intervals until the status information includes an estimated delivery date. Upon ascertaining the estimated delivery date the broker schedules another query to the shipper in advance of the estimated delivery date e.g. a day before the estimated date. If the status information indicates that the shipment is not yet on the truck for delivery the broker schedules an additional query for the next day and or later the same day and continues to query schedule additional queries until the shipment is on the truck. In one embodiment the queries are scheduled to occur in the early morning of the shipping address s local time zone because this is when the status information is likely to indicate that the shipment is on the truck for delivery but not yet delivered.

In addition the broker estimates the time at which the shipment will arrive at the customer s shipping address. In one embodiment the estimate is calculated using historical information about other shipments delivered by the shipper possibly in combination with other factors such as the distance from the shipper s depot to the shipping address the date shipment weight and the like. In one embodiment the estimate is an exact time while in other embodiments the estimate is a time window. In some embodiments the broker estimates the shipment arrival time when the status information indicates that the shipment is on the truck for delivery. In other embodiments the broker generates the estimate at other times such as when the status information first includes the estimated delivery date. Further the broker revises the estimated shipment arrival time in response to changes in the status information for the shipment. For example if the status information indicates that an exception occurred and or that the estimated delivery date has slipped the broker recalculates the estimated shipment arrival time based on the changed status information.

The broker notifies the customer of the estimated time of arrival for the shipment. As mentioned above in some embodiments the broker sends the notification at the time the estimate is determined or revised while in other embodiments the broker sends the notification based on the estimated delivery time e.g. sending notification 30 minutes before the estimated delivery time . The broker sends the notification to the customer as a mobile phone text message an email message a voice message delivered through an automated telephone system etc. In addition the broker can deliver the notification by making it available on a web page accessible to the customer . This notification allows the customer to ensure that someone is available to receive the shipment from the shipper .

The above description is included to illustrate the operation of certain embodiments and is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. From the above discussion many variations will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art that would yet be encompassed by the spirit and scope of the invention.

