---

title: System and method for controlling electromagnetic interference in portable electronic devices having a radio frequency subsystem
abstract: A portable electronic device that has a radio frequency communication subsystem operationally connected switch-mode power supply subsystem. The switch-mode power supply subsystem generates a pulse-width modulation electrical signal that produces electromagnetic interference. The switch-mode power supply subsystem can reduce the slew rate of the pulse-width modulation electrical signal when the radio-frequency communication subsystem is active. This reduces the level of the electromagnetic interference signal only during radio frequency communication, which improves the efficiency of the radio frequency communication. Not having the reduced slew rate when there is no radio frequency communication allows for higher modulation efficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08787990&OS=08787990&RS=08787990
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08787990
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120509
---
The present disclosure relates generally to portable electronic devices. More particularly the present disclosure relates to portable electronic devices that run high power application and that have a radio frequency subsystem.

Present day portable electronic devices such as for example smart phones and tablets are equipped with high power processors required to run high powered applications such as graphics accelerators three dimensional gaming etc. and are also equipped with a radio frequency RF communication subsystem. Typically the high powered processors running high powered applications receive electrical power from a power supply in the form of a pulse width modulated voltage signal. The pulse width modulation PWM of the electrical voltage can produce considerable electromagnetic interference EMI that can cause deleterious effect in the RF subsystem. For example these deleterious effects include a higher EMI noise floor which can cause the portable electronic device to have to re transmit messages numerous times in order for the messages to be properly transmitted.

Improvements in portable devices that have an RF subsystem and that run high power applications are therefore desirable.

Generally the present disclosure provides a method and system to control the electromagnetic interference EMI generated by a portable electronic device. The EMI is reduced when the portable electronic device is conducting radio frequency communication the reduced EMI allowing for more efficient communication.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to portable electronic devices that have a radio frequency subsystem. The portable electronic devices can also be referred to as mobile wireless communication devices or as mobile communication devices or as mobile devices. Examples of applicable portable electronic include cellular phones cellular smart phones handheld wireless communication devices tablet computers which can be referred to simply as tablets and the like.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device. To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile device reference will now be made to .

Shown in is a block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a portable electronic device . The portable electronic device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the portable electronic device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a radio frequency RF communication subsystem . Data received by the portable electronic device can be decompressed and decrypted by decoder operating according to any suitable decompression techniques e.g. YK decompression and other known techniques and encryption techniques e.g. using an encryption techniques such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES . The RF communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the portable electronic device the RF communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the RF communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications. The RF communication subsystem can comprise a baseband processor that manages the functions of the communication system .

Although the wireless network associated with portable electronic device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one exemplary implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the portable electronic device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems . The display can include a touch sensitive display.

Some of the subsystems of the portable electronic device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The portable electronic device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the portable electronic device . To identify a subscriber the portable electronic device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the portable electronic device and to personalize the portable electronic device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the portable electronic device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Message Service MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical portable electronic device. The SIM RUIM card may store additional subscriber information for a portable electronic device as well including datebook or calendar data and recent call data. Alternatively user identification data and other data items can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The portable electronic device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . The battery interface and the battery are comprised in a switch mode power supply subsystem described in greater detail below. In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The switch mode power supply subsystem includes a DC to DC converter which can include a buck converter a boost converter or both and a slew rate controller embodiments of which are shown and described elsewhere in the present disclosure. The DC to DC converter assists the battery in providing a voltage V to the portable electronic device e.g. V can be provided to the main processor or to any other power consuming component of the portable electronic device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells or capacitor based power supplies may provide the power to the portable electronic device . As will be understood by the skilled worker batteries micro fuel cells capacitor based based power supplies or any other device that can produce an electrical output usable by the portable electronic device can all be referred to as electrical energy sources. In some embodiments the switch mode power supply subsystem can be operationally connected to the RF communication subsystem the connection can be done through the main processor . Such embodiments are described elsewhere in the present disclosure.

The portable electronic device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the portable electronic device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the portable electronic device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the portable electronic device or some other suitable storage element in the portable electronic device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the portable electronic device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the portable electronic device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events appointments and task items. The PIM can also organize and manage any voice mails recorded on the portable electronic device . A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the portable electronic device subscriber s corresponding data items stored in or accessible by a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the portable electronic device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the portable electronic device subscriber s office computer system.

The portable electronic device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the portable electronic device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the portable electronic device is authorized to interface with.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the portable electronic device to allow the portable electronic device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the portable electronic device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass information technology IT policy commands from the host system to the portable electronic device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The subset of software applications can also include high power applications . Examples of such high power applications include for example three dimensional gaming web browsing video conference calling and video recording.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the portable electronic device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the portable electronic device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the portable electronic device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary input output I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the portable electronic device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the portable electronic device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the portable electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the portable electronic device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the portable electronic device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the portable electronic device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the portable electronic device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the portable electronic device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the RF communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard may be an alphanumeric keyboard a telephone type keypad or both. Alternatively instead of having a keyboard keyboard functionality can be provided to the user through a touch sensitive display that may be included in the display . Other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the RF communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the portable electronic device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the portable electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The scope of the present disclosure encompasses reducing EMI produced by a portable electronic device only when the portable electronic device receives or transmits a radio frequency signal. The reduction of the EMI is effected by reducing the slew rate of a modulated signal produced by the power supply of the portable electronic device. As will be shown below the present disclosure may allow for a portable electronic device that has improved RF communication efficiency as well an improved battery lifetime. That is by reducing the slew rate of the output electrical signal generated by the switch mode power supply subsystem during RF activity RF transmission or RF reception of the portable electronic device the EMI signal generated by the device is reduced which leads to more efficient RF activity. Simply stated as there is a lower EMI signal reduced EMI signal a RF signal being received or transmitted by the portable electronic device will be disturbed to a lesser extent than if the slew rate had not been reduced and the EMI signal were full strength. As such the RF signal in question can be received or transmitted by the portable electronic device without having to repeat the receive or transmit step as often as would be necessary if the EMI signal were full strength. With respect to the improved battery lifetime as the present disclosure reduces the slew rate only during RF activity the resistive losses occurring in resistors used to reduce the slew rate occur only when there is RF activity. This allows for less energy dissipation than if the slew rate were always at its reduced value in order to minimize EMI in order to improve RF communication efficiency.

The buck converter circuitry is part of a wider class of circuitry know as DC to DC converters which includes buck converter circuitry boost converter circuitry and buck boost converter circuitry.

As is known in the art when the output is connected to a high power load for example a processor running high power applications the buck converter circuitry can be set to operate in a pulse width modulation mode. In this case the high side driver and the low side driver drive their respective MOSFET very hard high slew rate at a pre determined frequency. The high slew rate is made possible by the MOSFETs and which have very little resistance and therefore very little resistive losses. As an alternative to MOSFETs insulated gate bipolar transistors IBGTs can be used.

Returning to the embodiment of the switch mode power supply subsystem includes the buck converter circuitry of to which resistors and and switches and have been added. The resistor is connected in series between the high side driver and the gate of the MOSFET . The switch is connected at opposite ends of the resistor . The resistor is connected in series between the low side driver and the gate of the MOSFET . The switch is connected at opposite ends of the resistor . Additionally a switch controller is electrically connected to the switches and . The switches and are controlled by the switch controller which is controlled by the RF communication subsystem as described further below. Alternatively the switch controller can be formed in the RF communication subsystem without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Any suitable type of switches can be used as switches and including any suitable type of transistor without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Any suitable type of resistors can be used as resistors and including any suitable grouping of resistors and any suitable variable resistance resistor assembly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. As shown in the output of the switch mode power supply assembly is electrically connected to a load . When the switches and are closed the voltage signal at node of is the same as that at the node of . That is the voltage signal in both cases is as shown in the plot of .

When the RF communication subsystem is neither receiving nor transmitting a RF signal the switches and are closed and the MOSFETs and are driven hard to produce at the node the voltage signal shown at plot of . This mode of operation closed switches allows for low resistive losses in the portable electronic device which allows for prolonged time periods between charging the battery . That is having the switches closed allow for higher improved efficiency of the switch mode power supply subsystem or higher improved modulation efficiency of the switch mode power supply subsystem . When the RF communication subsystem is inactive but is set to become active that is when the RF communication subsystem is neither receiving nor transmitting and RF signal but is set to begin receiving or transmitting an RF signal it provides a status signal also referred to as a RF activity status signal to the switch controller to signal the controller to open the switches and . By opening the switches and additional resistive losses are produced by the resistors and and the slew rate modified slew rate of the voltage signal produced at node is reduced which reduces the amount of EMI generated. The reduction in EMI benefits the reception and the transmission of an RF signal in that there is less EMI to interfere with the RF signal. As an example in a portable electronic device using the Discontinuous Reception DRX protocol the RF communication subsystem wakes up at fixed time intervals to communicate with the network shown in . The baseband processor of the RF communication subsystem can be aware of the DRX settings and can control the switches and through the switch controller accordingly. That is the baseband processor can signal the switch controller to open the switches and just before the RF communication subsystem wakes up to service pings from the network . Also the baseband processor can signal the switch controller to close the switches just after the RF communication subsystem goes to sleep. Further if a user of the portable electronic device wishes to place a telephone call or send a message using the RF communication subsystem manipulation of the portable electronic device by the user to place the call or send the message i.e. the user activating appropriate controls of the portable electronic device will cause the baseband processor to signal the switch controller to open the switches and just before placing the call or sending the message. The baseband processor will signal the switch controller to close the switches and just after the call is finished or just after the message has been sent.

With the reduction of the initial EMI level to the reduced EMI level comes a reduction in the RF transmission reception error rate as shown at which shows an initial error rate when the RF activity status signal is at the inactive level closed switches and and a reduced error rate when the RF activity status signal is at the active level i.e. when the switches and are open .

When reducing the EMI during RF activity the resistive losses in the portable electronic device increases. This is shown at which shows the initial resistive losses going from initial resistive losses when the RF activity status signal is at the inactive level closed switches and to increased resistive losses when the RF activity status signal is at the active level i.e. when the switches and are open .

As will be understood by the skilled worker having the status signal going from an active level to an inactive level would have the effect of reversing the time axis in the graphs shown at and .

Referring again to the embodiment of the resistors and are shown connected in series between their respective gate drivers and MOSFET gates the switches and are shown as connected to opposite ends of their respective resistor s and . Other configurations of resistors and switches are also within the scope of the present disclosure. shows alternative exemplary arrangements of resistors and switches shows the high side driver electrically connected to the switch which can be connected directly to the gate of the MOSFET or to the resistor which is connected to the gate of the MOSFET shows the high side driver electrically connected to the switch which can be connected directly to the gate of the MOSFET or to any of the resistors A and B which are connected to the gate of the MOSFET . The resistors A and B have different resistance the resistor having the highest resistance is selected to reduce EMI the most to decrease the slew rate the most the resistor having the lowest resistance is selected to reduce EMI the less to reduce the slew rate the less . In the embodiment of even though three resistors are shown any suitable number of resistors can be used and still be within the scope of the present disclosure. In the embodiment of the resistor to which the switch connects to reduce the slew rate of the resulting output electrical voltage e.g. refer to plot of can depend on several factors including for example a target slew rate a target EMI signal.

As will be understood by the skilled worker the embodiments of relating to the high side driver and its related resistor switch and MOSFET are also applicable to the low side driver of and to its related components. Further even though the embodiment of is shown with the buck converter circuitry of it is to be understood that any other buck converter circuitry can be used as long as it allows for placement of a resistor and switch between an output of a gate driver and a gate of a modulation switch for example the gate of a MOSFET in order to reduce the slew rate of an output electrical signal. Additionally in the embodiments of A and B it is possible to have an inductor between the high side gate driver and the MOSFET in order to drive the MOSFET gate as hard as possible i.e. in the case where there is no need to reduce the EMI signal in this case the inductor would need to be resonant at the pulse width modulation frequency.

Returning to the embodiment of the switch mode power supply subsystem includes the boost converter circuitry of to which resistors and and switches and have been added. The resistor is connected in series between the high side driver and the gate of the MOSFET . The switch is connected at opposite ends of the resistor . The resistor is connected in series between the low side driver and the gate of the MOSFET . The switch is connected at opposite ends of the resistor . Additionally a switch controller is electrically connected to the switches and . The switches and are controlled by the switch controller which is controlled by the RF communication subsystem in the same manner as described in relation to the switches shown in the embodiment of . As shown in the output of the switch mode power supply assembly is electrically connected to a load .

Even though the embodiment of is shown with the boost converter circuitry of it is to be understood that any other boost converter circuitry can be used as long as it allows for placement of a resistor and switch between an output of a gate driver and a gate of a modulation switch for example the gate of a MOSFET in order to reduce the slew rate of an output electrical signal. More generally any suitable type of DC to DC converter that allows for placement of a resistor and switch between an output of a gate driver and a gate of a modulation switch for example the gate of a MOSFET in order to reduce the slew rate of an output electrical signal is within the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure may also be applicable to electrical signals other than those produce using pulse width modulation. For example the present disclosure may also be applicable to peak and valley control constant off time control hysteretic control etc.

The method of begins at action and proceeds to action where it is determined if the RF communication subsystem is active. If it is not active the method proceeds action where it is determined if the RF communication subsystem is about to become active. If the RF communication subsystem is still not active and is not about to become active action loops onto itself until the RF communication subsystem is about to become active. When the RF communication is about to become active the method proceeds to action where the slew rate of an output electrical signal generated by a switch mode power supply subsystem is reduced. Examples of a switch mode power supply subsystem are shown at and . The method then proceeds to action where it is determined if the RF communication subsystem is about to become inactive. If it is not about to become inactive action loops onto itself. When the RF communication subsystem is about to become inactive the flow proceeds to action where the slew rate of the output electrical signal generated by the switch mode power supply subsystem is set to a pre determined value e.g. a maximum value which is higher than the value of the aforementioned reduced slew rate. Subsequent action the method proceeds to action . Returning now to action if it is determined that the RF communication subsystem is active the method proceeds to action .

In the method of whether the RF communication subsystem is about to become active or inactive can be determined by the RF communication subsystem itself that can provide an indication an RF activity status signal to the switch mode power supply subsystem the switch mode power supply subsystem receives the indication which can modify the slew rate of its pulse width electrical signal accordingly. That is if the RF communication subsystem is about to become active the switch mode power supply can reduce the slew rate in order to reduce decrease an electromagnetic interference signal generated by the pulse width electrical signal. Conversely if the RF communication subsystem is about to become inactive the switch mode power supply can increase the slew rate in order to improve the modulation efficiency of the switch mode power supply subsystem.

Present day portable electronic devices are often required to run high power applications compared to portable electronic devices of a few years ago. This means that present day portable electronic devices running high power applications produce more EMI than previous portable electronic devices. As such concerns about EMI are greater now that they used to be particularly with portable electronic devices that have RF communication capabilities which can be affected by EMI levels. The approach presented above where the slew rate is reduced to reduce EMI during RF activity and the slew rate is increased during RF inactivity is therefore very much related to present day portable electronic devices.

Advantageously the present disclosure may allow for a portable electronic device that has improved RF communication efficiency as well an improved battery lifetime. That is by reducing the slew rate of the output electrical signal generated by the switch mode power supply subsystem during RF activity RF transmission or RF reception of the portable electronic device the EMI signal generated by the device is reduced which leads to more efficient RF activity. Simply stated as there is a lower EMI signal reduced EMI signal a RF signal being received or transmitted by the portable electronic device will be disturbed by the EMI signal to a lesser extent than if the slew rate had not been reduced and the EMI signal were full strength. As such the RF signal in question can be received or transmitted by the portable electronic device without having to repeat the receive or transmit step as often as would be necessary if the EMI signal were full strength.

With respect to the improved battery lifetime as the present disclosure reduces the slew rate only during RF activity the resistive losses occurring in the resistors used to reduce the slew rate occur only when there is RF activity. This allows for less energy dissipation than if the slew rate were always at its reduced value in order to minimize EMI such as to improve RF communication efficiency.

The present disclosure is also advantageous over known methods of controlling EMI in portable electronic devices and known methods of controlling the interaction of the EMI with RF signals associated with the portable electronic devices. Such a method is the forced pulse width modulation method which implements a control loop that requires more electrical power than required by the present disclosure. Typically speaking a DC to DC converter in prior art portable electronic devices has two modes of operation 1 a low power mode with a variable frequency of switching be it constant on time control pulse skip mode pulse frequency mode etc. and 2 a pulse width modulation mode. The pulse width modulation mode operates at a fixed switching frequency which controls the output EMI spectrum. That is the EMI frequency spectrum is defined by pulse width mode switching frequency. Forcing PWM mode of operation doesn t reduce the EMI it only fixes it to a known state so adequate EMI filtering can be applied in order to minimize interaction between the EMI signal and the RF signals being transmitted or received by the portable electronic device. The EMI filtering reduces the efficiency of the power supply in all modes of operation. By contrast to forced pulse width modulation the present disclosure does more than controlling the frequency spectrum of an EMI signal. Rather the present disclosure reduces the EMI signal.

The concepts of the present disclosure are a more adaptable to circumstances than previous methods of dealing with EMI for example in accordance with the present disclosure EMI can be reduced only when RF activity is occurring . Further the concepts of the present disclosure can be adapted to a variety of devices and can be implemented in small readily portable electronic devices such as handheld devices with negligible effect upon size and weight.

As described above the concepts of the present disclosure can entail trade offs between the slew rate of a portable electronic device and the EMI produced by the portable electronic device. By reducing the slew rate during RF activity resistive losses increase in the portable electronic device the electrical efficiency of the portable electronic device decreases but the EMI produced by the portable electronic device is reduced which can increase RF communication efficiency. By increasing the slew rate during RF inactivity the electrical efficiency of the portable electronic device increases.

In the preceding description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the disclosure. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the disclosure. In other instances well known electrical structures and circuits are shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the disclosure. For example specific details are not provided as to whether the embodiments of the disclosure described herein are implemented as a software routine hardware circuit firmware or a combination thereof.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be represented as a software product stored in a machine readable medium also referred to as a computer readable medium a processor readable medium or a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein . The machine readable medium can be any suitable tangible medium including magnetic optical or electrical storage medium including a diskette compact disk read only memory CD ROM memory device volatile or non volatile or similar storage mechanism. The machine readable medium can contain various sets of instructions code sequences configuration information or other data which when executed cause a processor to perform steps in a method according to an embodiment of the disclosure. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other instructions and operations necessary to implement the described disclosure can also be stored on the machine readable medium. Software running from the machine readable medium can interface with circuitry to perform the described tasks.

The above described embodiments of the disclosure are intended to be examples only. Alterations modifications and variations can be effected to the particular embodiments by those of skill in the art without departing from the scope of the disclosure which is defined solely by the claims appended hereto.

