---

title: Generating a social glossary
abstract: Particular embodiments determine that a textual term is not associated with a known meaning. The textual term may be related to one or more users of the social-networking system. A determination is made as to whether the textual term should be added to a glossary. If so, then the textual term is added to the glossary. Information related to one or more textual terms in the glossary is provided to enhance auto-correction, provide predictive text input suggestions, or augment social graph data. Particular embodiments discover new textual terms by mining information, wherein the information was received from one or more users of the social-networking system, was generated for one or more users of the social-networking system, is marked as being associated with one or more users of the social-networking system, or includes an identifier for each of one or more users of the social-networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280534&OS=09280534&RS=09280534
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09280534
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121119
---
A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users. The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system.

Particular embodiments of a social networking system mine information to learn neologisms and generate a social glossary. As new textual terms are adopted by social networking users and become commonplace they may be incorporated into a glossary for a user based on whether the usage context of the neologisms corresponds to the user s profile e.g. locale language gender age group profession or other profile characteristics. New textual terms may also be adopted based on user polls at large or within groups of social contacts . Each new textual term may be required to exceed a certain usage threshold before it qualifies as a neologism and not a mistake. The usage threshold may be determined based on usage by users of the social networking system users having a relationship with the user according to the social graph users using the same language as the user users located within the same geographic area as the user users sharing a demographic category with the user or users sharing similar profile attributes with the user.

Particular embodiments analyze textual terms gathered by mining social networking information e.g. status updates and other sources of information in order to learn neologisms and generate a social glossary. As a new textual term is adopted it may be incorporated into a social glossary based on whether the usage context of the textual term corresponds to the user s profile e.g. locale language gender age group profession or other profile characteristics. New textual terms may also be adopted based on user polls at large or within groups of social contacts suggestions machine learning based on user over rides of auto corrections and by mining online sources of information. Each new textual term may be required to exceed a certain usage threshold before it qualifies as a neologism that may be added to the social glossary and not a misspelling or typographical error . The usage threshold may be determined based on usage by the general population users of the social networking system users having a relationship with the user according to the social graph users using the same language as the user users located within the same geographic area as the user users sharing a demographic category with the user users sharing similar profile attributes with the user or some other sub group.

Social glossary may be generated based on multiple sources of potential new textual terms wherein a source of information may provide not only new textual terms but also information related to usage context user profile information for users who have used or who are likely to use the new textual terms definitions synonyms antonyms etymology etc. A source of information may explicitly indicate that a particular textual term should be added to social glossary or it may provide opportunities to detect potential new textual terms. New textual terms may be added to social glossary on the basis of usage statistics expert opinion popular opinion submission attainment of a threshold for adoption or any other conventional method of determining that a new textual term should be added to a glossary. The generation of a social glossary based on an information source is described in further detail with respect to .

User related sources of information may include a number of different sources such as by way of example and not limitation social information related to one or more users communications involving users suggestions submitted by users polls taken by users or corrections entered by users. The users discussed herein may be discussed in the context of a social networking system however particular embodiments may be implemented in the context of any sort of user based system e.g. corporate system organizational system . Social graphs and related social networking content are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification. Social networking systems are described in further detail with respect to and corresponding text in the specification.

User related sources of information may provide additional information with respect to context since the user based system may maintain user profiles for user accounts as well as maintaining past communications and other information that may enable context analysis and demographic analysis when a new textual term is detected.

Social information may include information such as by way of example and not limitation status updates comments on other users content tag information OR messages accompanying other social actions e.g. check in . Communications may include user to user communications e.g. emails text messages etc. or broadcast style communications originating with a user e.g. TWEETS bulletin board posts . Corrections may include user input captured when a user overrides an auto correction of a term.

User associated online content includes any type of content that can be associated with a user. Associations with a user may arise when content is generated or edited by a user when content is posted by a user when content is associated with a user by a third party e.g. a friend tagging a user in a photo or posting or when the content itself explicitly indicates that it is associated with a user e.g. news story about a user .

Suggestions may include submissions of new textual terms to add to social glossary . In particular embodiments the suggestion may include usage context information. In particular embodiments only suggestions from pre screened individuals e.g. linguistic professors may be accepted.

Polls may provide a way to assess popular opinion as to whether or not to add a particular textual term to a social glossary . The distribution group for invitations to participate in such a user poll may be determined on the basis of a defined subgroup e.g. users within a particular group users having a particular affiliation with an organization users sharing a particular interest users within a particular locale users falling into a particular demographic group users speaking or writing in a particular language users connected to one or more social sub networks or users sharing any other type of characteristic.

External sources of information may include a number of different sources such as by way of example and not limitation third party websites third party submissions and public communications. Third party websites may include any type of website or network accessible repository of content. Particular embodiments may inspect third party websites to determine whether new textual terms are being adopted. Particular embodiments may also inspect metadata associated with the third party websites. Public communications may include any type of public or published content such as by way of example announcement press release notice blog broadcast etc.

Social glossary may then be used for a number of different purposes. One use case may include suggesting predictive text . For example as user input is typed into an entry field textual terms in social glossary may be used to perform partial string matching to provide predictive input suggestions. Prediction of user input and display of typeahead results is discussed in further detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 132 filed on 19 Apr. 2010 titled Dynamically Generating Recommendations Based on Social Graph Information and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 180 804 on 15 May 2012 and also in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 631 489 filed on Sep. 28 2012 titled Enhanced Predictive Input Utilizing a Typeahead Process both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Another use case may include providing auto correction . Any conventional technology for providing auto correction functionality may be used in conjunction with the social glossary. Another use case may include enhancing the social graph . In particular embodiments when a new textual term is added to social glossary a determination may also be made that the new textual term qualifies to be added as a new node as a new edge type or as an attribute of an existing node or edge type.

For example a particular textual term Necomimi may have been added to the social glossary as it began to appear on websites blogs status updates and in photo and video tags. If Necomimi was classified in the social glossary as a noun related to a commercial product a Necomimi concept node may be added to the social graph in conjunction with for example links to websites associated with the product links to social networking users who have posted photos of video of themselves wearing Necomimi ears and a newsfeed of users comments and status updates where Necomimi is mentioned.

In another example if a particular textual term rickrolled was added to the social glossary as a verb related to an action that one user can perform upon another user a rickrolling edge type may be added to the social graph so as to capture such actions or activity when occurring between users of the social graph.

In another example if a particular textual term blogger was added to the social glossary as an adjective that can be applied to a user node with a known association to a blog a blogger attribute may be added to user nodes in the social graph who are determined to be associated with a particular blog along with a link to the user s blog.

Another use case may include providing a third party interface . The third party interface may provide pull functionality for third party systems to access social glossary in order to retrieve new textual terms or push functionality for particular embodiments to send new textual terms out to third party systems. In particular embodiments third party interface may also provide functionality for third party systems to update or add to social glossary .

In particular embodiments third party systems may subscribe to social glossary in order to receive updates as new textual terms are added. Such subscription style functionality may be implemented in any conventional manner.

In step particular embodiments discover one or more new textual terms. In particular embodiments particular embodiments may receive host or seek out sources of information from which new textual terms may be discovered. Examples of such sources of information are discussed in further detail with respect to .

In step particular embodiments determine that a textual term is not associated with a known meaning. This determination may be made by comparing the textual term to existing dictionaries existing glossaries e.g. of slang terms proper names etc. or similar references.

This determination may also be made on the basis of an analysis of the textual term to determine the usage context of the textual term. For example a parsing algorithm may analyze the usage context of the textual term and determine that although the textual term has a known meaning as a proper noun the textual term is now being used as a verb. As one of skill in the art would be aware any algorithm for performing natural language parsing may be used in conjunction with embodiments disclosed herein.

In step particular embodiments determine that the textual term should be added to a glossary. This determination may be made on the basis of one or more factors including by way of example and not limitation usage statistics expert opinion popular opinion attainment of a threshold for adoption or any other conventional method of determining that a new textual term should be added to a glossary.

In particular embodiments a new textual term may be added once usage statistics for the term indicate that it is more than just a misspelling or typographical error. Such usage statistics may be determined on the basis of a defined subgroup e.g. users within a particular group users having a particular affiliation with an organization users sharing a particular interest users within a particular locale users falling into a particular demographic group users speaking or writing in a particular language users connected to one or more social sub networks or users sharing any other type of characteristic.

In particular embodiments a new textual term may be identified by examining user overrides of auto corrections or suggested spelling corrections or by determining that particular users who rarely make spelling or typographical errors consistently enter the new textual term with the same spelling.

In particular embodiments a new textual term may be added on the basis of an expert opinion or submission. For example an expert in terminology as related to a particular area may submit a new term for addition to the social glossary e.g. a submission from the scientists involved in the discovery of the buckminsterfullerene molecule to add buckyball to the social glossary as a synonym and nickname for buckminsterfullerene .

In particular embodiments a new textual term may be added on the basis of popular opinion. For example results of a user poll may indicate that the new textual term should be added to the glossary. The distribution group for invitations to participate in such a user poll may be determined on the basis of a defined subgroup e.g. users within a particular group users having a particular affiliation with an organization users sharing a particular interest users within a particular locale users falling into a particular demographic group users speaking or writing in a particular language users connected to one or more social sub networks or users sharing any other type of characteristic. Results of such a poll defined on a subgroup basis may provide correlating metadata information about profile characteristics of the polled group that can be associated with the new textual term.

In particular embodiments a new textual term may be added on the basis of attainment of a threshold for adoption. The threshold for adoption may be determined in any manner. In one example particular embodiments may require that the textual term appear in a sufficient number of usage contexts so as to be able to derive certain information about the usage or meaning of the textual term. In another example particular embodiments may require that a textual term appear in a sufficiently diverse set of information sources so as to avoid simple propagation of cut and paste type errors.

In particular embodiments the determination of whether to add a new textual term to the social glossary may be managed entirely or in part by an administrator who can evaluate one or more of the above described and any additional factors.

In step particular embodiments may add the textual term to the social glossary. Upon adding the textual term to the social glossary particular embodiments may update other related tables data stores systems pages functionality or third party systems such as by way of example and not limitation updating an index for a database table that facilitates rapid access to textual terms in the social glossary updating an index or database table associated with popular new terms for the purpose of presenting suggestions based on predictive text input updating an index or database table associated with commonly misspelled terms for the purpose of providing auto correction functionality pushing social glossary updates to third party systems that have subscribed to the social glossary as described in further detail with respect to creating nodes or edge types in a social graph as described in further detail with respect to or adding attribute information to existing nodes or edges in a social graph as described in further detail with respect to .

Particular embodiments may store a textual term in association with related information. In particular embodiments a textual term may be associated with metadata or other information related to the textual term. Examples of metadata or other information include but are not limited to a classification under a particular lexical category as a noun pronoun adjective verb adverb preposition conjunction interjection etc. a definition synonym s antonym s example and or typical usage context s alternate spelling s one or more particular oral or written language designations a particular locale profile information for known or typical users of the textual term e.g. age gender profession education interest s demographic element s connection to particular social sub networks affiliation with one or more groups or organizations or a temporal geo spatial or social pattern of adoption. Such a pattern of adoption may be determined by tracking usage context for the textual term as adoption becomes more widespread.

In step particular embodiments may provide glossary information for social networking functions and third party systems. As described in further detail with respect to particular embodiments may provide support for general functionality such as suggestions of predictive text input and provision of auto corrections which may be provided either for internal use with respect to a social networking system or for external use by third party systems. Particular embodiments may also provide enhancements to the social graph based on the social glossary. Finally particular embodiments may provide a more generalized third party interface to add to and update the social glossary e.g. by using an API.

In step particular embodiments may receive feedback regarding a textual term in the social glossary. Affirmative feedback may be received in the form of additional information received or detected that supports the addition of the textual term to the social glossary or related metadata or other information. Negative feedback may indicate that the textual term is simply a misspelling or typographical error or that it has become obsolete and is no longer in common use or even disfavored.

In step particular embodiments may remove or flag obsolete textual terms in the social glossary. Determination that a textual term is obsolete may be made in any manner including techniques related to those described above with respect to step .

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages or one or more user profile pages which may be webpages .

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a webpage.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplate any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system another mobile computing device or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments I O interface may include additional hardware software or both to support one or more sensors to provide additional information such as for example and without limitation a touch sensor disposed for example on a display of the device the back of the device and or one or more lateral edges of the device for detecting a user touching the surface of the mobile electronic device e.g. using one or more fingers an accelerometer for detecting whether the personal computing device is moving and the speed of the movement a thermometer for measuring the temperature change near the personal computing device a proximity sensor for detecting the proximity of the personal computing device to another object e.g. a hand desk or other object a light sensor for measuring the ambient light around the personal computing device an imaging sensor e.g. camera for capturing digital still images and or video of objects near the personal computing device e.g. scenes people bar codes QR codes etc. a location sensor e.g. Global Positioning System GPS for determining the location e.g. in terms of latitude and longitude of the mobile electronic device a sensor for detecting communication networks within close proximity e.g. near field communication NFC Bluetooth RFID infrared a chemical sensor a biometric sensor for biometrics based e.g. fingerprint palm vein pattern hand geometry iris retina DNA face voice olfactory sweat authentication of a user etc.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network or an antenna. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

