---

title: Autonomous underwater vehicle control system and method
abstract: A vehicle control system is provided that includes an internal communications system. The vehicle control system further includes a controller configured to communicate with a plurality of independent vehicle systems via the internal communications system. The controller stores and accesses a plurality of libraries of system processes having data associated with the plurality of vehicle components. The controller maintains an operational state for the vehicle during an operational failure of at least one of the plurality of independent vehicle systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880275&OS=08880275&RS=08880275
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08880275
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention generally relates to a vehicle control system and more particularly to an autonomous reconfigurable underwater vehicle control system capable of operating independently from other vehicle systems.

Unmanned underwater vehicles UUV are known and used for a variety of missions including anti mine operations oceanographic analysis reconnaissance intelligence gathering and tracking of marine vehicles. Control of a UUV i.e. control over the UUV and or a plurality of the components included on the UUV can generally be accomplished either remotely for example via a tether or internally by using a master vehicle control.

With regard to the internal vehicle control systems the UUV may include an internal control architecture which controls the overall operation of the UUV as well as the operation of the various components contained in the vehicle. However these vehicle control systems are limited and are subject to catastrophic failure in a variety of situations. Such limitations may result in mission failure as well as a loss of the UUV itself.

A number of prior art references address various aspects of UUV technology. For example United States Patent Publication No. 2011 0144836 Larkin et al relates to a UUV navigation and guidance system. Generally the Larkin reference describes a method to provide navigational aid to a UUV without the requirement of the vehicle surfacing. The reference describes the use of sonar systems in obtaining position data from a host platform and using the position data as an observation for the navigation system. However the Larkin reference does not generally teach particulars relating to vehicle control.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 118 066 Sirmalis et al. relates to the physical and or operational concept for an autonomous UUV expanding the theater of operations for a submarine or surface ship. The Sirmalis reference generally teaches the UUV to be conformal to the hull of another vessel. Sirmalis does not teach the particulars relating to vehicle control.

Lastly United States Patent Publication No. 2004 0065247 Horton relates to a potential use of an UUV to track and record data from submarines. The UUV attaches to the hull of the submarine being tracked and from there collects and reports data about the submarine. The Horton reference does not teach or suggest particulars relating to the vehicle control.

Thus there is a need for an autonomous underwater vehicle control system that is more reliable than existing vehicle control systems and which can ensure continued mission operation even when one or more of the components included in the UUV are non functional.

Accordingly it is a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide an autonomous UUV control system that is adaptive dynamically reconfigurable and reliable.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a reconfigurable autonomous vehicle control system that allows programming of components and missions.

With the above and other objects in view a feature of the present invention is an enhanced vehicle control system. The control system comprises an internal communications system and a controller configured to communicate with a plurality of independent vehicle systems. The controller stores and accesses a plurality of libraries of system processes having data associated with the vehicle components. The controller maintains an operations state for the vehicle during an operational failure of one or more of the independent vehicle systems.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention there is provided an underwater vehicle system. The system comprises an internal communication system and a plurality of independent vehicle systems configured to communicate via the internal communication system. The system further comprises a vehicle control system configured to communicate with the independent vehicle systems. The control system is configured to monitor the independent vehicle systems and to maintain an operational state for the vehicle during an operational failure of one or more of the independent vehicle systems.

In accordance with a still further feature of the present invention there is provided a method of controlling an underwater vehicle. The method comprises the step of accessing a plurality of libraries having data associated with each of the independent vehicle systems. The method further comprises the step of executing a mission file in which the mission file contains data associated with vehicle guidance and commands for operational timing control over the vehicle systems. The method still further comprises the step of maintaining an operation state for the vehicle during an operational failure of one or more of the independent vehicle systems.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art reading the instant specification drawings and appended claims.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown an exemplary UUV constructed in accordance with the present invention. More particular the UUV shown in is embodied as a Midsized Autonomous Reconfigurable Vehicle MARV hereinafter referred to as the vehicle . The vehicle may be configured to interface with pneumatic surface ship tube launchers or hydraulic submarine torpedo tube launchers. The vehicle may further be configured to be recovered inside a submarine torpedo tube.

As is understood in the art the UUV generally includes components and or systems adapted to perform functions necessary for effective operation. As illustrated in the vehicle includes a nose section a bathymetry section a vehicle bulkhead side scan sonar an energy section a navigation section an afterbody section and a hotel section . The vehicle may comprise other configurations for example a chemical sensor video camera side scan sonar bathymetry sonar and vector sonar .

The nose section comprises components and or systems such as a tracking transducer an acoustic communication system ACOMMS transducer one or more cameras one or more pressure sensors a DCO switch as well as an EOR location pinger. The bathymetry section comprises components and or systems configured to perform certain mapping and or terrain following functions.

The side scan sonar comprises a sonar system. The energy section includes an energy source that provides operating power and or voltage to the components of the vehicle . Exemplary energy sources include but are not limited to a lithium battery or a lead acid battery.

The navigation section comprises components that provide navigation information for the vehicle . Exemplary components include a ring laser gyro a RDI Doppler velocity log a wireless communications antenna global positioning system etc. The afterbody section comprises components generally relating to the propulsion of the vehicle . Exemplary components include a tail propulsors actuators a motor actuator thruster controller motor etc. Generally the components comprising the afterbody section provide a robust propulsion system for the vehicle .

The hotel section comprises components relating to electronic or operational control of at least a portion of the vehicle . The hotel section may comprise a power distribution system a control system a video recording system an ACOMMS system startup circuitry a casualty assist monitoring system a radio frequency bridge an Ethernet switch as well as one or more servers.

Generally the components comprising the vehicle are separable by general function but work together to provide an integrated vehicle. That is the components and or subcomponents included in the vehicle may be divided into groups relating to the functions that each of the components performs. Collectively the components interact to enable a functional vehicle .

Turning now to more particular aspects of the present disclosure and referring to there is shown a block diagram of an exemplary vehicle system also referred to as the vehicle control system . The system may comprise an RF Ethernet bridge an ACOMMS system a serial server an Ethernet switch a Bathymetric Sonar a sidescan sonar an autonomous controller video system one or more video cameras a battery EMAG switches start up circuitry a casualty monitoring system a power distribution assembly an Ethernet system a navigation system a tracking transponder an EOR pinger e.g. a range tracking pinger an actuator interface module one or more fins a motor actuator controller a motor one or more propellers and a vehicle controller also referred to as the controller .

Broadly the system comprises an internal communications system. In a preferred embodiment the internal communications system is implemented via the Ethernet system . The Ethernet system is in electrical communication with the serial server the Ethernet switch as well as any of the remaining components comprising the system . As is generally understood the Ethernet system is configured to provide networking technologies linking the vehicle systems sub systems together. It is to be understood though that the system may implement the internal communication system with something other than the Ethernet system. For example the internal communication system may be implemented as an internal wireless communication system optical communication system and the like.

The RF Ethernet bridge is configured to provide an interface between the internal communication system e.g. the Ethernet system and an RF communication system not shown so as to permit RF communication between the vehicle and an external vehicle e.g. a topside ship . Similarly the ACOMMS in cooperation with the serial server may be configured to provide a communications interface between the internal communications system and an external acoustic communications system.

The bathymetric sonar and sidescan sonar are configured to provide various sonar data as would be understood in the art. The sonars and are further configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system via the Ethernet switch .

The autonomous controller video system in cooperation with the one or more video cameras is configured to provide video functionality to the system . The autonomous controller video system may be configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system for example with the Ethernet system .

The battery EMAG switches start up circuitry and the power distribution assembly cooperate to provide an operating source e.g. voltage to the system and to distribute the operating source to the components of the system. The power providing and distribution systems thru are configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system for example to communicate with the Ethernet system .

As would be understood in the art the navigation system may be configured to provide navigation related data to from the system . The navigation system may also be configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system .

The tracking transponder and the EOR pinger are configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system . The tracking transponder and the EOR pinger provide data relating to the tracking and distance of the vehicle .

The motor actuator controller is in electrical communication with the actuator interface module and the motor to control the one or more fins and or the one or more propellers in order to provide propulsion and or directional control of the vehicle . The motor actuator controller may be further configured to communicate with the internal communication system of the system for example to communicate with the Ethernet system .

And lastly the vehicle controller may be configured to communicate with the plurality of independent vehicle systems via the internal communication systems. The controller stores and or accesses a plurality of libraries of system processes. The libraries of system processes may have data associated with the vehicle components.

More particularly the internal vehicle control system implements a vehicle control system about a main network hub for example the Ethernet system . The components forming the system are joined via an internal communications system for example as the vehicle network shown by lines connecting the Ethernet system to the various components . The internal vehicle communication system is preferably implemented using the Ethernet system . Each joined component is capable of responding to commands sent via the Ethernet system and acting with independent time control from vehicle controller supervisory processes operating on the controller .

The controller may be a processor joined to libraries of system processes. The libraries are provided for all possible components not just the currently configured components. The libraries may specify the messaging types protocols and casualty conditions for each of the components. As an initialization process the vehicle controller identifies the components currently installed on the vehicle and current configuration information is sent to the user. The user then can download pre set information and select missions as well as performing related tasks.

This architecture allows separation between the vehicle control processing e.g. the controller and component processing on the various other components. The controller may be configured to run supervisory processes in order to coordinate the independent components.

The vehicle controller may be programmed with a mission file provided by a user. This mission file preferably provides waypoints for example through coordinates . In other embodiments the mission file may provide direct navigational distance. The mission file commands may provide for activation and or deactivation of the vehicle components. As discussed hereinafter the mission file may specify responses to component casualties as well as thresholds for casualty declaration. Concerning navigational commands from the mission file these commands may be provided as coordinates to the guidance process. The navigational system comprises a GPS receiver as well as inertial and acoustic components thereby allowing the navigational system to determine the current position of the vehicle . The guidance process utilizes data from the navigational system to calculate the bearing and velocity required for the vehicle to reach the specified waypoint. In the timestamp system each component generates a timestamp at a predetermined interval. The supervisory process of the vehicle controller monitors these timestamps from each of the component processes. The supervisory process may compare the timestamp against a preprogrammed response interval for the component process. If the timestamp is within the preprogrammed response interval the supervisory process indicates the component as being functional. If the timestamp exceeds the response interval or no timestamp is received the vehicle controller marks the component as a casualty and takes programmed action for that type of component failure. That is the vehicle controller maintains an operation state for the vehicle during an operational failure of one or more of the independent vehicle systems or components.

Vehicle components may also be monitored for threshold casualties. These may be conditions such as pressure temperature or signal levels that could indicate a failure of the component. These may be readings generated by the particular components of the vehicle. Threshold levels are preprogrammed into the vehicle controller .

The vehicle controller may also monitor for event casualties and process driven timeouts. These timeouts occur when the vehicle controller requests that a component perform an event and the component does not report on completion of the event within a certain period of time. For example if the controller requests that the guidance control process surface the vehicle and the vehicle has not surfaced within a predetermined period of time an event casualty occurs. As would be understood event casualties occur most often with navigational commands. The mission file can contain contingency commands that can issue on the occurrence of specified event casualties.

In many cases a component failure does not mean that the mission of the vehicle should be terminated. The programmed actions can include utilizing a backup system operating at a different depth changing course surfacing etc. The actions threshold levels and events are typically downloaded by the operator as part of the configuration once initialization is complete.

The vehicle controller is preprogrammed with the available components and the basic vehicle configuration. Upon configuration the vehicle controller conveys this information to external programming software. The vehicle controller may also use this information to ensure that the controller is being properly configured by the external programming software. Errors involving programmed mission parameters and components are reported to the external programming software during initial configuration.

An exemplary list of the supervisory processes functions operating on the controller include but are not limited to 1 checks recorded timestamps to verify that processes are operating and commands the casualty monitoring system to request a shutdown if circumstances require 2 checks data for threshold casualties and performs appropriate actions based on present conditions 3 accepts a process generated timeout or event casualty and performs appropriate actions based on present conditions 4 checks the validity of commands received by a launch control software input process and acts on the commands 5 checks and executes mission files by providing goal information to the guidance process and 6 periodically checks for ACOMMS and wireless commands updates if these systems are active .

The controller may also be configured to implement a message queue library which allows for communication between other component processes. The message queue library controls the flow of communications and ensures that critical communications are maintained. Some communications can be given a higher priority than others. For example supervisory processes of the vehicle controller provide high level guidance commands to the guidance process. The guidance process uses the current vehicle position provided by the navigation system and calculates fin angles and motor speed that will accomplish the high level guidance. The fin angles and motor speeds are transmitted to the motor actuator controller via the internal network e.g. the Ethernet system from the motor actuator controller . Other component to component interactions could occur between environmental sensors and the sonar component.

The controller may also implement a recorder process. The processes of the vehicle controller may be configured to provide data to the recorder process for storage on a hard disk drive or other writable media. In addition this process frees other processes components from storage interface requirements that could impact process scheduling. The data may be utilized for analysis of vehicle mission performance parameters as well as for specific component statistics.

The controller may also implement a log file. The controller can write messages to the log file without slowing down the process of requesting the log entry. The log file message may include the timestamps provided by the component processes. These messages alert the operator to critical issues and help troubleshoot problems that impact future vehicle missions. The log file may contain lessons learned information that is used to make the vehicle more reliable.

In order to synchronize data from the vehicle components the vehicle controller may provide for a Simple Network Time Protocol Server SNTP . The vehicle components can synchronize to the vehicle controller by performing SNTP client functions. This provides for comparing data from multiple vehicle components at critical times during mission performance.

The controller may also include the following libraries which may be accessed by the vehicle controller processes 

a watchdog timer library which provides a facility to start a timer and have specific messages posted when the timer fires 

a system discrete library configured to register provide control of provide status for or receive change in status for any systemwide discrete status signal 

a data subscription library allowing processes to make a single request for another process data and to receive the data at a specified rate without making further requests 

a bit array library for providing an abstraction where a memory area can be addressed by using bit numbers to designate certain discrete status signals this may be used for each process and for the system in conjunction with string tables to provide status 

a string table library for providing status to the user through the use of the bit array library or another binary type data structure 

a Real Time Clock RTC library for providing an interface to the real time clock of the vehicle controller 

a process information library configured to provide information to processes at the time of creation and for the processes and the system to acquire information about other processes and

a vehicle controller initialization library for providing software called by the operator at initialization to configure the launch control console create all processes and start execution of the processes.

The controller may be joined to various communication systems for external communications for example the ACOMMS via the Ethernet system in communication with the serial server and also with an external RF communication system via the RF Ethernet bridge . These communications take precedence over internal mission files thereby allowing manual override of vehicle control system controls. Exemplary communication systems include a hardwired system using one or more Ethernet cables a wireless system available when the vehicle is surfaced and an acoustic communications system utilized when the vehicle is submerged. Each of these communication systems may be joined to the internal communications system via the Ethernet system.

With more particular reference to the ACOMMS an ACOMMS system provides an alternative means for controlling an autonomous system. ACOMMS may include a vehicle system and a topside system.

The ACOMMS vehicle system also includes an acoustic modem joined to an Ethernet controller e.g. the serial server . The Ethernet controller is connected to the vehicle network the Ethernet system . Vehicle communications are sent from the vehicle controller through the vehicle network Ethernet system and the Ethernet controller serial server to the vehicle acoustic modem ACOMMS . The topside system acoustic modem receives transmissions from the vehicle acoustic modem and the topside external processor processes these transmissions.

The ACOMMS topside system may include an application that can send commands to and receive data from the vehicle . The application can send vehicle commands to abort the mission perform an immediate shutdown send latest tracking and vehicle data stop sending periodic tracking data sleep or starting sending periodic ACOMMS tracking data wakeup . The application can also send commands abort hold proceed end mission to the onboard autonomous controller via the vehicle controller . ACOMMS tracking data received from the vehicle is displayed in the application and a standard National Marine Electronics Association NMEA message is created and can be sent to a tracking computer via a UDP network socket to graphically display the vehicle s location using another application.

The ACOMMS vehicle side may support sending periodic vehicle tracking data or other types of data from vehicle components. ACOMMS communication interfaces with other sonar operations in order for the vehicle controller to prioritize sonar operations or ACOMMS operations.

Turning now to shown therein is a block diagram of a vehicle controller constructed in accordance with the present invention. The controller includes one or more processors and a memory . The memory may store instructions and data for execution by the processor as well as executable code. The memory includes a data processing module . The controller further includes a storage system a communication network interface and an input and output I O interface .

The components shown in are depicted as being communicatively coupled via a bus . The processor and memory may be communicatively coupled via a local microprocessor bus and the storage system may be communicatively coupled via one or more input output I O buses. The communications network interface communicates with the Ethernet system and or other digital devices not shown via a communications medium.

The storage system includes a mass storage device and or portable storage medium drive s . The mass storage device may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. Either drive would be a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by the processor . The mass storage device stores logic instructions executable by the processor for implementing embodiments according to the present technology. A portable storage device as part of the storage system may operate in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or digital video disc DVD to input and output data and code to and from the controller .

System software for implementing various embodiments may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the controller via the portable storage device. The memory and storage system of the controller may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions executable by a processor to perform at least partially a method for controlling an underwater vehicle. The instructions include software used to implement modules components discussed herein and other modules.

It should be understood that at least a portion of the supervisory functions performed by the controller as described herein may be defined by instructions that are stored on storage media for example computer readable media . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor of the controller . Examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks integrated circuits and servers.

It should also be noted that most hardware platforms suitable for performing the processing described herein are suitable for use with various embodiments of the invention. The terms computer readable media and storage media as used herein refer to media that provide instructions to a CPU or processor. Such media includes but is not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system RAM.

Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise an embodiment of a bus. Transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium a physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a processor can read.

It will be understood that additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

