---

title: Automated system for managing baby care products
abstract: A computer-based online system having a memory, for managing a plurality of registries of baby care product selections, wherein each of the plurality of registries is uniquely associated with a respective one of a plurality of users, and wherein each baby care product selection corresponds to a baby care product selected at the online system or one of a plurality of retailers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08190495&OS=08190495&RS=08190495
owner: The Procter & Gamble Company
number: 08190495
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120105
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 219 733 filed on Aug. 29 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 112 322 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 715 616 filed on Mar. 2 2010 which are both hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to facilitating purchases of consumer products and more particularly to an apparatus and method for managing a registry for baby care products.

As is known today many retailers offer personalized gift registries so that a shopper can compile a list of items he or she wishes to receive and friends and family can select gifts from among the listed items. For example an expectant mother may register at a retailer that specializes in baby care products and infant products in general. People invited to the baby shower or a similar event can then consult the registry maintained by the retailer prior to purchasing gifts. However because the personalized gift registry includes only those items that are being offered by the retailer the mother s choice of items is necessarily limited. On the other hand registering at multiple retailers to set up several gift registries is likely to create confusion and logistical difficulties.

Further expectant mothers as well as parents of infants often engage in repeated purchases of the same or similar baby care products for example diapers or other non durable goods during a relatively long period of time and in that respect one time gifts selected via a gift registry do not fully address the parent s needs. The difficulty in predicting the exact amount and the type of baby care products for example diaper size that will be needed at each stage of growth of the baby makes such products a generally unlikely choice for a one time gift. Meanwhile as is known diaper purchases and similar recurring expenses account for a large percentage of the total expenses associated with raising a baby.

In the recent years it has been known to offer products including baby care products online in addition to or instead of physical stores. Customers also expand their product awareness through online shopping and generally do not limit their purchases to a single retailer or provider. However many still prefer an in person shopping experience with respect to at least some products and some prefer a mixed experience where some products are purchased online other products are purchased in person and yet other products are selected in person and subsequently purchased online. Yet in person shopping experience in general and purchasing of baby care products in particular has not been seamlessly integrated with online shopping.

To allow a parent or another user to select baby care products from multiple retailers and manufacturers an online computer based baby care products management system hereinafter the baby care system stores identifiers of baby care products selected at various physical and virtual locations in a registry specific to the user. In particular a user can select a product via an online interface from a list maintained by the baby care system by scanning in the product code of an item at a physical locations of a participating retailer by partially or fully importing an existing registry associated with a certain retailer by partially or fully importing an existing registry associated with another user of the baby care system or by activating an appropriate control provided at a website maintained by a participating retailer and add the selected product to the registry. During the lifetime of the registry participants such as friends family baby shower invitees etc. access the registry via an online interface by supplying the name of the user or another identifier make purchases or update the status of items for example from available to purchased exchange comments regarding various items etc. In some embodiments some or all registry participants are also allowed to add or remove items from the registry.

In some embodiments a participating retailer is provided with an application programming interface API to integrate a retailer specific registry into a new or existing registry associated with the baby care system. When configuring a new registry a user specifies which retailer specific registries are to be imported into the registry. The baby care system imports the specified registries partially or in full according to user selections. In some embodiments an item from an imported retailer specific registry is assigned a link to the retailer so that participants see at which retailer the item was originally selected. When a participant purchases the item the selection and the purchase request are automatically routed to the retailer website.

In an embodiment users and participants utilize a toolbar operating in a browsing application for example Internet Explorer to efficiently interact with the baby care system. In one scenario a user visits an online retailer selects an item and activates a control for example an add button on the toolbar to quickly add the selected item to her registry. To this end the participating retailer may support an appropriate API. In another embodiment the function for quickly adding the selected item to the registry is implemented as another type of a web site control for example a hyperlink a banner etc. 

In some embodiments the baby care system is integrated with one or several online retailers so that a user can search the product database of a specified retailer for example when adding items to the registry. In some embodiments the baby care system is also integrated with retailers that include physical retail locations and receives product selections from participants visiting these retail locations. In one such embodiment an application running on a portable smart device receives a universal product code UPC specified in the form of a barcode on a product and transmits the UPC and the identity of the retailer to the baby care system. In response the baby care system updates the registry with the specified product and associates the selection with the specified retailer.

When processing requests to add a selected product to a registry the baby care system in at least some of the embodiments checks the general category to which the product belongs i.e. the stock keeping units SKUs of the product and adds the selected product to the registry only if the product is indeed a baby care item.

In some embodiments users and or registry participants access the baby care item management system via a standard web interface. In another embodiment a social networking system supports an application programming interface API to directly access the baby care item management system. In some embodiments the API is also supported on a standard platform of a smartphone for example Symbian OS . In other embodiments an application is provided to interact with the baby care item management system using a manufacturer specific platform for example the i phone platform provided by Apple Inc. .

In an embodiment the system automatically notifies registry participants such as friends and family of the updates to the registry. In an embodiment the system notifies the user regarding recent purchases comments related to product selections or purchases and other events. The system may further allow in person shoppers to share the shopping experience for example selections wish list items etc. with friends and family in particular with respect to baby care products.

In addition to facilitating purchases of one time gifts from various retailers the baby care system in some embodiments allows participants to contribute any desired amount to an account dedicated to recurring purchases of baby care products such as diapers or other non durable goods for example hereinafter a recurring purchase account . Unlike a typical gift selected at the baby care system or the participating retailers the recurring purchase account is used dynamically to make periodic purchases within a certain category. Thus a mother can use the recurring purchase account to purchase diapers of a certain size during the first two postnatal months and use the same recurring purchase account to purchase diapers of a bigger size during the next several months. The user initially sets up a recurring purchase account and specifies her preferences for example notifications upon every new contribution notifications upon contributions in excess of a certain amount . The baby care system then processes contributions updates the balance and notifies the user regarding the status of the recurring purchase account in accordance with user preferences. In one embodiment the recurring purchase account is presented to the user and to participants as one of the items listed in the registry although participants cannot render the item taken i.e. already purchased by electing to purchase the item.

To implement fiscal management of the recurring purchase account the baby care system in an embodiment automatically establishes a financial account with a financial institution such as a bank. The financial institution updates the balance when participants donate funds or when the user purchases baby care products using the recurring purchase account. In another embodiment the baby care system associates the recurring purchase account with an aggregate gift card maintained by a gift card provider for example a retailer a financial institution . In another embodiment the baby care system generates a one time coupon having an appropriate identifier code when a participant makes a donation and supplies the one time coupon in an electronic or physical form to the user. In yet another embodiment the baby care store generates a virtual store an electronic store for users who wish to redeem a portion or the entire balance of the recurring purchase account. By activating an appropriate control on a web interface of the baby care system a user can be taken to a web page that displays selections of baby care products to which the balance of the recurring purchase account may be applied. In an embodiment the electronic store supports secure API calls to a participating financial institution to perform financial transactions.

In an embodiment the mother selects baby care products and pays for the selected items using the recurring purchase account. The interface may present the payment option as an alternative for paying using a credit card for example.

The baby care system includes one or several servers each of which includes a computer readable memory on which software instructions are stored and a processor to execute these instructions. The servers include a network interface to connect to a wide area network WAN . In some embodiments the baby care system includes a database to store user data participant data item identifiers and other data related to items included in registries recurring purchase account data etc. In an embodiment the baby care system includes a notification engine to detect updates to registries or recurring purchase accounts identify users or participants to be notified regarding these changes and generates electronic notifications that are delivered to email accounts portable devices social networking sites etc. Some or all communications between the baby care system and hosts operated by users and participants are encoded in some embodiments of the baby care system. In an embodiment the encoding is provided by the secure socket layer SSL and the appropriate digital certificates stored at the baby care system and or hosts operated by users and participants.

Although the following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments it should be understood that the legal scope of the description is defined by the words of the claims set forth at the end of this disclosure. The detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. Numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this patent which would still fall within the scope of the claims.

It should also be understood that unless a term is expressly defined in this patent using the sentence As used herein the term is hereby defined to mean . . . or a similar sentence there is no intent to limit the meaning of that term either expressly or by implication beyond its plain or ordinary meaning and such term should not be interpreted to be limited in scope based on any statement made in any section of this patent other than the language of the claims . To the extent that any term recited in the claims at the end of this patent is referred to in this patent in a manner consistent with a single meaning that is done for sake of clarity only so as to not confuse the reader and it is not intended that such claim term be limited by implication or otherwise to that single meaning.

For ease of explanation techniques for operating product registries and recurring purchase accounts are discussed herein with reference to a particular category of products i.e. baby care products. As used herein the term baby care product refers to devices or consumer products designed for babies or small children for example diapers wipes clothes bottlers pacifiers strollers as well as consumer products indirectly associated with raising babies or small children for example baby safe detergents clothing to be worn by a mother during pregnancy baby monitors . It will be understood however that systems similar to those described herein can support registries and or recurring purchase accounts for any category of products or need not be limited to any single category at all. The system and methods described herein may be applicable to a number of non baby care products such as adult incontinence products feminine hygiene garments facial tissues bathroom tissues paper towels and paper napkins. In another embodiment the consumer products may be selected from for example a laundry or other type of detergents fabric softeners bleaches fabric pretreaters and dryer sheets. In another embodiment the consumer products may be selected from for example dishwashing detergents glass cleaners hard surface cleaners fabric deodorizers air fresheners and hard surface sanitizers. In another embodiment the consumer products may be selected from for example cosmetics gift packs electric or manual appliances razors hair products skin products pet food products. Thus the systems and methods discussed below with reference to are provided by way of example only.

As used herein the term smart device refers to any portable device capable of running one or more software applications. Smart devices also can be connected to the Internet or one or more computer networks. Smart devices include but are not limited to smartphones for example iPhone or Blackberry pda s netbooks GPS devices tablets e readers iPads mobile game consoles for example Nintendo DS Sony PSP .

Participants such as friends family etc. operate computer hosts such as a host or portable devices to access the system to make purchases of items listed in the corresponding registry exchange comments and suggestions and make contributions to the recurring purchase account. As used herein the term participant refers to any person who has access to the registry of a particular user and who can purchase products listed in the registry via the system . In an embodiment the system includes an electronic store server to process requests from participants to purchase items listed in the registry. In some cases the system stores for each products originally selected at an online retailer host A or B a link to the corresponding retailer so that a participant s request to purchase the products is directed from the system to the online retailer host A or B.

The system in this example embodiment includes a web gateway through which users and participants access applications run on the application server . For ease of illustration each of the web gateway the application server and the electronic store server is depicted as a single host. It is noted however that the each of the devices can include one or several physical computer hosts each including a processor to execute computer instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The system further includes a user registry database to store user information as well as registry data for example lists of products links to retailers comments for each user who has set up a registry with the system . In some embodiments the database is implemented on a computer host in which a processor is coupled to a persistent memory. In an embodiment the database is a relational database that includes multiple tables interconnected via logical links with one table including data records for respective baby care products another table including data records for respective users etc.

Further a contributor database stores information related to registry participants or recurring purchase account contributors. A recurring purchase account database stores data such as account ownership account balance etc. associated with recurring purchase accounts. Similar to the database the databases and can be implemented as relational databases operating on respective computer hosts and residing in persistent memory locations. In another embodiment the system includes a single database to store user and registry data participant data and recurring purchase account data.

With continued reference to the application server runs several applications such as a balance manager a registry manager a contribution manager a baby care product selector a notification manager and a purchase manager . In an embodiment each of the modules is a software module implemented using a suitable programming language for example C . Generally speaking the modules can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

The registry manager facilitates registration of new users and creation of new registries. A user can create a new registry by supplying his or her preferences contact information etc. Upon receiving new registry data via the web gateway the registry manager populates a corresponding record in the database . In an embodiment the user specifies an existing registry associated with a participating retailer and the registry manager automatically imports the specified registry into the system . To consider one such scenario a user specifies that she wishes to import her gift registry maintained by the online retailer operating the server B into the system . The registry manager transmits a request to the server B and if the server B supports an API the server B automatically supplies the requested gift registry data to the system . In another embodiment the server B does not require a special purpose API and the gift registry data is supplied to the system in a standard format such as Extensible Markup Language XML for example. The registry manager then imports the received gift registry data into the database .

In another embodiment a user specifies that she wishes to import the list of products from another user s gift registry maintained by the system . A new mother can for example import the registry of a more experienced mother. In an embodiment the new mother can only import the registry of a user in whose registry the new mother is a participant. In another embodiment a user can choose whether to allow other users to import her registry. Thus for example a mother shares her registry with another mother who then selects a portion or the entirety of the shared registry for importing into her own registry. Further if desired a new mother can import the registry of a typical mother who may be a hypothetical mother whose registry has been developed by experts as a template from which the new mother can begin developing her personalized registry.

In an embodiment the registry manager additionally asks the user whether she wishes to pre populate the registry with a certain amount of baby care products such as diapers for example.

The registry manager can further ask the user for her preferred retailer. In an embodiment the registry manager automatically sets up a recurring purchase account to which participants can subsequently contribute. In some embodiments the registry manager asks the user to specify a preferred retailer for all potential purchases.

Upon registering a new user the registry manager can generate a customizable homepage for the user. The homepage in one embodiment supports a news feed to display messages from registry participants comments from the user herself and other users. In some embodiments the homepage can be integrated with social networking sites such as Facebook MySpace etc. to display comments submitted via these sites display users and participants pictures displayed at these sites etc.

Referring next to the baby care product selector a user in one scenario selects a baby care product at a website operated by the electronic store activates the appropriate control such as a submit button and the baby care product selector adds the identifier of the selected product and if necessary additional description of the selected product to the database . In another scenario a user visiting in person a participating retailer scans in the barcode of a product using the smartphone using a product selection application specific to the system . As discussed below with reference to the product selection application forwards the identity of the product and if desired the identity of the retailer to the baby care product selector via the network the network and the web gateway and the baby care product selector stores the received information in the database . In yet another scenario the user visits a website operated by the online retailer host A for example selects a product and activates a control such as hyperlink and the online retailer host A executes an API to transmit the selection to the baby care product selector that in turn stores the selection in the database .

The purchase manager updates the database as participants purchase products listed in the registries. In accordance with an example scenario a participant accesses the registry from the host via the web gateway specifies a user by entering the name email address or other identifier and supplies authentication data such as login and password in at least some of the embodiments to view the list of products in the user s registry. Upon selecting a product originally selected at the electronic store server the participant is prompted for a payment method selection and payment data and the purchase manager completes the transaction via one or several secure APIs that interact with the financial institution for example. The purchase manager then updates the appropriate field in the database to indicate that the product has been purchased and in some embodiments stores the participant s identity in the data record associated with the purchased product.

In another scenario the participant similarly accesses the registry at the system but chooses to purchase a product originally selected at a website operated by a participating retailer. As indicated above the system in some embodiments retains the association between a baby care product and a retailer at whose physical or virtual store the product was chosen. The purchase manager in this case automatically redirects the participant to the appropriate online retailer for example the online retailer server A where the participant can complete the purchase. Additionally the purchase manager updates the registry in the database to indicate that the product has been purchased.

To manage a recurring purchase account the user sets up for diapers for example the balance manager and the contribution manager respectively calculate the total amount of money accumulated in the account and processes requests from participants to pledge funds. A user first accesses the application server to configure a new recurring purchase account and the balance manager generates a new data record in the database and sets the initial account balance to zero. In some embodiments the user specifies a certain financial goal for example 10 months worth of diapers via a corresponding dialogue box. The user may then notify the participants of the new account or the participants can learn about the account when viewing the user s registry. When participants access the system to contribute funds to the specified recurring purchase account the contribution manager processes the requests as discussed below and requests that the balance manager update the account balance in accordance with the newly processed pledge. In an embodiment the balance manager calculates the approximate duration of a period during which the user can rely on the recurring purchase account for certain baby care products. For example the balance manager can process a 50 contribution to an account associated with diapers update the overall account balance to 250 and estimate that the user has enough diapers for 1.5 months.

In some embodiments the purchase manager applies the recurring purchase account to purchase requests from the user. For example the user in the above example may visit the electronic store select a 100 count diaper pack and elect to pay for the selected diaper pack with the funds accumulated in his or her recurring purchase account. In an embodiment the balance manager checks whether the recurring purchase account can be applied to the selected product. Thus if the user wishes to apply the balance of the account toward a purchase of a stroller but the account is set up only for diapers for example the balance manager can notify the purchase manager that the request should be denied.

With continued reference to the notification manager can automatically detect and report to the user various events related to the user s registry and or her recurring purchase account. To this end the notification manager can check user s preference stored in the user s profile in the database for example. In an example embodiment the notification manager generates an email message for every new contribution to the recurring purchase account and every purchase of a product listed in the user s registry.

As indicated above systems generally similar to the baby care product management system in other embodiments can manage bridal or wedding registries birthday registries housewarming registries graduation registries new pet registries etc. Further recurring purchase accounts can be set up according to other schemes such as a new mom account for example to accumulate funds that a user can apply toward purchases of any products that match the new mom profile for example clothing baby care products strollers etc. or as another example a new home account to accumulate funds applicable to purchases of household products. If desired a recurring purchase account can apply to several distinct categories for example new home new parent or new pet owner. 

Next several example embodiments of a system for maintaining a recurring purchase account discussed with reference to . Certain aspects of the web interface through which the system of may interact with users and participants is then discussed example screens of and an example of a web interface of a participating retailer that supports an API for interacting with the system is discussed with reference to and an example smartphone interface for adding products to a registry during in person shopping is discussed with reference to .

Referring first to a system for maintaining a recurring purchase account can operate independently of a system for managing a baby care product registry. In other words the system can separately provide the function of creating updating and applying a recurring purchase account for baby care products such as diapers for example. The system includes a web server a recurring purchase account database and an application server . Similar to the database the database in this embodiment stores data related to account ownership account balance etc. The web server supports a web interface for example an interactive web site via which users can access the system from a host or similar host and via which the application server can access a server of an online retailer.

In the embodiment of the application server is a host having a memory and a processor to execute a balance manager a contribution manager a digital asset interface and a financial institution interface applications each of which is stored as a set of instructions on a computer readable memory. The balance manager and the contribution manager are generally similar to the balance manager and the contribution manager discussed above. In operation the application server processes contributions and updates the balance and the user applies a portion or the entirety of the available account balance to purchases of baby care products at the web server for example via a web site interface operated independently by an online retailer.

The digital asset interface allows the system to operate with another system such as a system for managing baby care product registries so that an account set up at the system is presented as a regular product to a registry user. As one example a user can set up a recurring purchase using at the system and list the account as one of the items in a registry operated by another system. In other embodiments the digital asset interface allows the system to access a provider of baby care products such as diapers. In one such embodiment the digital asset interface is coupled to an external baby care item distribution system not shown through which the user can purchase baby care products and where the user can use her recurring purchase account as a form of payment.

To implement fiscal management of contributions and purchases the system in this embodiment is communicatively coupled via the financial institution interface to a financial institution which may be a bank for example. The system maintains a data record for recurring purchase account in the database and the financial institution updates the account balance in response to requests from the system . Thus the system in this embodiment interacts with the external financial institution to create a dedicated account for example a checking account for each recurring purchase account maintained by the system .

As an alternative to the fiscal management techniques illustrated in the online retailer that operates the server can directly manage a fund or account and provide one or several APIs to be used by the system for creating the fund contributing money to the fund etc. The components and can invoke these APIs in response to commands received from participants and users.

In another embodiment illustrated in a system is generally similar to the system of except that the system associates each recurring purchase account with an aggregate gift card maintained by a gift card provider for example a retailer a financial institution . A gift card manager operating in an application server interacts with a gift card provider to request that a gift card be issued for a specified amount and the gift card subsequently can be used for online or in person purchases in a known manner i.e. as a traditional gift card. If desired the system can present an interactive dialogue screen to the user via which the user can select his or her preferred online retailer. In some embodiments the system allows the user to select products to which the recurring purchase account is applicable via a web interface maintained by the system and automatically contacts the preferred online retailer via an API provided by the preferred online retailer for example.

On the other hand a system illustrated in includes a coupon generator operating in the application server . Upon receiving a notification that a participant has made a donation to a particular recurring purchase account for baby care products the coupon generator generates a one time single use coupon having an appropriate identifier code when a participant makes a donation and supplies the one time coupon in an electronic for example email or physical for example paper form to the user. In an embodiment the coupon generator generates a unique identifier for every issued coupon so that the coupon is applicable only to the particular recurring purchase account.

In yet another embodiment a system illustrated in executes an electronic store application in a web server to maintain a virtual electronic store for users who wish to redeem a portion or the entire balance of their recurring purchase accounts. The electronic store application displays only relevant items for example diapers baby care products of a certain category to a user who accesses the web server . Further the electronic store allows the user to use his or her recurring purchase account for baby care products when making purchases through the web server . It is noted that unlike a typical online retailer for example the retailer who operates the server A in the electronic store is operated by the system and is limited to a particular product category. In an embodiment the electronic store is accessible only to owners or beneficiaries of recurring purchase accounts. In at least some of the embodiments the electronic store only accepts the funds in recurring purchase account as a form of payment to simplify the check out process.

Further a system similar to the systems and may operate with a debit card or a similar account restricted to a particular online retailer or to the baby care product management system itself. The debit card at the same time may not be restricted to particular stock keeping units SKUs and thus could be easily integrated with any existing electronic stores. In a sense the debit card may be similar to a gift card except that a financial institution for example the financial institution of manages the debit card in these embodiments.

Referring generally to the systems and in some embodiments allow users to apply their recurring purchase accounts to a certain category of baby care products rather than to a particular product. In particular a mother may apply her account toward purchases of diapers of one size during one period of time and continue using her account to purchase diapers of a larger size during a later period of time. Further in at least some of the embodiments a parent of multiple children can apply the account to purchases of different baby care products for example infant diapers cruisers at the same time. Still further users can transfer account balances to each other in some embodiments of the system or .

Now referring to the registry manager see in an embodiment presents a screen to a user who wishes to set up a new registry with the system . The screen includes a fill in form in which the user specifies the expected due date and a fill in form in which the user specifies the expected weight of the child. Further the user specifies whether she already has a registry at a participating retailer via a checkbox area and if one or several of such registries exist she can specify the retailer via a fill in form . A radio button allows the user to select a notification preference for example detailed notifications purchase only notifications that do not reveal the identities of the purchasers no notifications . In another embodiment the notification preference is obtained via a separate dialogue. Upon completion of registration the registry manager stores the information supplied via the screen in the database and in some cases initiates a process of importing an existing gift registry.

Further the online retailer in this example includes an add to my registry button for adding a product displayed on the screen to a baby item product registry maintained by the system . Referring back to activation of the button can invoke the API to efficiently transmit the selection to the baby care product selector . In the example illustrated in a user has clicked on the button and the online retailer has generated a dialogue screen . The dialogue screen in this embodiment displays a picture of the product the name and the logo of the online retailer a quantity pull down selector and a price listing. In some embodiments the dialogue screen is generated by the baby care system such as the system rather than by the online retailer.

It is also noted that by activating an appropriate control such as the button the user in some embodiments adds the selected product both to the registry maintained by the system and to the retailer specific registry associated with the site at which the user made the selection. In other words the participating online retailer may continue to manage a registry of products specific to the online retailer but at least some of the product selections are also added to the registry maintained by the system for access by the corresponding user and the participants. In yet another embodiment the button is used only for adding the product to the registry associated with the online retailer and the user invokes a function not shown on the toolbar dedicated to adding a product to the appropriate registry of the system .

In another embodiment the screen is generated by the web gateway . In this embodiment the user can browse web sites of participating retailers via the system i.e. by interacting with the web gateway that in turn interacts with a participating retailer to retrieve a list of baby care products the associated prices etc. It is noted that in this embodiment the system advantageously can control the format and the content of the screen . Moreover by presenting standard screens for example dialogue screen irrespective of the currently selected online retailer the system provides additional comfort and convenience to the user and generally improves user experience.

Referring now to the purchase manager see or another component can generate a screen when participants and users view the contents of the registry. The screen in this embodiment displays a picture of each product along with the associated price. For certain products the screen additionally lists an online retailer from which the product was originally selected. For example a screen area includes a retailer identifier that can direct the user to the web site of the identified retailer upon selection. By contrast a screen area does not include a retailer identifier and accordingly indicates to the user or participant that the item is purchased directly from the system upon selection.

Next illustrates a screen of a portable device such as a smartphone equipped with a barcode scanner which a user can use when shopping in person at a participating retailer. The portable device implements the product selection application see or a similar application. As is known most products retailed in the United States are labeled with an appropriate Universal Product Code UPC typically specified as a barcode. Upon scanning in the UPC of a product the user activates the registry control . As illustrated in the application then displays a dialogue via which the portable device receives a selection of the retailer where the user has scanned in the product. The portable device then transmits the product identity and the store identifier to the baby care system where the transmitted information is added to a database for example the database illustrated in .

As discussed above a user can apply a portion of the entirety of a recurring purchase account toward purchasing baby care products at a baby care item management system or at a participating retailer. illustrates an example payment method dialogue screen that includes a credit card payment option a PayPal payment option and a baby care product account payment option . The baby care product account payment option displays the current balance and allows the user to specify a partial amount of the available balance if desired.

In general it is noted that users and participants can access the system or via applications or widgets on any suitable platform including social networking sites smartphone application environments etc.

Now referring to a module or application such as the registry manager see can implement a method to set up a registry in response to a request from a user. At block a request to activate a registry application is received from a user who has clicked on a hyperlink advertising baby care product registry for example. User data in one embodiment is supplied in the form of a cookie. At block prior user registration is check and if the user has not previously registered the user is offered to import an existing registry block via a dialogue screen such as the one illustrated in for example. If the user specifies a registry that exists at a participating retailer a request to the specified retailer is automatically generated at block and the corresponding response is processed at block . Otherwise if the user chooses not to import a registry the method proceeds to block at which user data for example contact information expected due date etc. is received. Finally the user is taken to his or her homepage at block .

In addition or as an alternative to directly providing user registration via an appropriate web form the registry manager may also support registration via a social networking site such as Facebook for example. In an example scenario a social networking site operating on the social network supports a widget for accessing the system or a similar system that manages a product registry a recurring purchase account or both . A user logged into his or her social networking site account activates the widget and the widget automatically generates and transmits a message to the system to check whether the user is already registered with the system . If the user is registered the social network server receives the relevant user data from the system and displays a homepage that may appear similar or identical to the homepage generated at block see . In particular the homepage may display registry items comments from the registry participants the status of the recurring purchase account if available and other data specific to the system . In an embodiment the homepage also includes information specific to the social networking site such as photographs of the participants comments entered via the social networking site etc.

On the other hand if the system indicates that the user has not previously registered with the system the social network server may display a dialogue to approve sharing of certain user data between the system and the social networking site. As discussed above the sharing is used in certain embodiments to integrate features of the social networking site such as messaging or certain types of messaging with the features of the system discussed herein.

Referring to a system for maintaining a recurring purchase account can implement a method to update the balance of an account dedicated to recurring purchases of baby care products in response to an event. As one example some of the blocks illustrated in can be implemented by the contribution manager and some of the blocks can be implemented by the purchase manager . In particular at block a contribution from a participant is received for the recurring purchase account of a specified user and the total amount of money pledged to the account is updated at block . In another scenario a request to pay for a purchase using the account is received at block and upon verifying that the product being purchased is in fact a baby care item matching the profile of the recurring purchase account block the balance is similarly updated at block . If the product being purchased does not match the profile of the recurring purchase account the purchase request is rejected at block . Otherwise a notification is provided at block in accordance with the user profile. As discussed above a user may be notified regarding her new balance if a purchase has been made or if a contribution has been made by a participant an email or a text message can be generated and transmitted to the user.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that different modules may be combined or subdivided. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and cursor control device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a graphics controller .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device .

The communications connections allow the device to communicate with other devices. The communications connections are an example of communication media. The communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. Computer readable media may include both storage media and communication media.

Referring back to the systems and implement and are coupled to respective networks similar to the network described in . The systems described with reference to may further include and or be implemented on one or more computers similar to the computer described in . Also servers such as the application server the web gateway server etc. may be implemented on hosts that include at least some of the components of the computer describe in .

The dimensions and values disclosed herein are not to be understood as being strictly limited to the exact numerical values recited. Instead unless otherwise specified each such dimension is intended to mean both the recited value and a functionally equivalent range surrounding that value. For example a dimension disclosed as 40 mm is intended to mean about 40 mm. 

Every document cited herein including any cross referenced or related patent or application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety unless expressly excluded or otherwise limited. The citation of any document is not an admission that it is prior art with respect to any invention disclosed or claimed herein or that it alone or in any combination with any other reference or references teaches suggests or discloses any such invention. Further to the extent that any meaning or definition of a term in this document conflicts with any meaning or definition of the same term in a document incorporated by reference the meaning or definition assigned to that term in this document shall govern.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

