---

title: Associative search engine
abstract: This invention relates to an advertisement machine which provides advertisements to a user searching for desired information within a data network. The machine receives, from a user, a search request including a search argument corresponding to the desired information and searches, based upon the received search argument, a first database having data network related information to generate search results. It also correlates the received search argument to a particular advertisement in a second database having advertisement related information. The search results together with the particular advertisement are provided by the machine to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129019&OS=09129019&RS=09129019
owner: RPX CLEARINGHOUSE LLC
number: 09129019
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
The present U.S. Utility Patent Application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation to U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 031 478 filed Feb. 21 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 767 563 filed Jun. 25 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 895 183 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 09 351 747 filed Jul. 8 1999 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 236 969 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 08 798 747 filed Feb. 13 1997 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 098 065 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes.

The invention generally relates to search engines and in particular to an associative search methodology based on a contextual search engine for retrieving related information.

The Internet provides an excellent vehicle for access to information about goods and services on a global basis. In theory anyone can access information about any product. In practice the problem is one of finding the correct information. Many techniques for solving this problem are known including indexing systems such as Yahoo graphical electronic malls hall of malls directories and text search engines such as OpenText. These techniques and tools for searching and retrieving information in their present form can inundate the user with large amounts of unwanted material.

This later problem can be alleviated somewhat by enabling the user to provide search statements as a set of criteria which are combined with logical operators such as AND OR and NOT operators. However many problems still exist with this. One of them is that the user is left to his her own imagination to try to think of all the alternative descriptions i.e. keywords of a product or service. As search engines and techniques become ever more powerful in the number and diversity of databases they can access the amount of information which it is possible to present to a user can quickly become excessively large. The problem or opportunity still remains to quickly find the relevant information for which the user is looking.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved associative search methodology for retrieving related information.

The invention therefore according to a first broad aspect provides a method of providing advertisements to a user searching for desired information within a data network comprising the steps of receiving from the user a search request including a search argument corresponding to the desired information searching based upon the received search argument a first database having data network related information to generate search results correlating the received search argument to a particular advertisement in a second database having advertisement related information and providing the search results together with the particular advertisement to the user.

According to a second broad aspect the invention provides a method of searching for desired information within a data network comprising the steps of receiving from a user a search request including a search argument corresponding to the desired information searching based upon the received search argument and user profile data a database of information to generate a search result and providing the search results to the user.

According to a third broad aspect the invention provides a system for providing advertisements to a user searching for desired information within a data network comprising means for receiving from the user a search request including a search argument corresponding to the desired information means for searching based upon the received search argument a first database having data network related information to generate search results means for correlating the received search argument to a particular advertisement in a second database having advertisement related information and means for providing the search results together with the particular advertisement to the user.

According to a fourth broad aspect the invention provides a system for searching for desired information within a data network comprising means for receiving from a user a search request including a search argument corresponding to the desired information means for searching based upon the received search argument and user profile data a database of information to generate a search result and means for providing the search results to the user.

Conventional search engines for example OpenText provide a basis on which the methodology according to this invention may be implemented. In a particular embodiment the invention is manifested by an advertising system including an associative search engine that may be tied into and form an integral part of the conventional search engine. When an end user accesses the conventional search engine the associative engine of the selling system examines the user s choices and search instructions that have been input by the user and formulates the necessary strategy and tactics to offer products that would appeal to the end user based on his her inputs and choices up until that point in the search. Since the process is dynamic the strategy and tactics can be continually refined and the results presented to the end user in a predictive order and fashion that relates to that end user s past preferences either for the immediate search underway or including all prior search data stored for that user and a contextual database. This effectively provides unobtrusive related and useful data and options to the end user who is searching for information. The processor used for the advertising and selling mechanism can be a part of or interconnected with the search engine.

Some examples will illustrate how this invention can have high value to an end user. An end user s profile data may contain such information as the make model and year of automobile he she owns or leases. When tires are needed the manufacturers recommended tire types and options may be considered as sort criteria provided within a contextual database. Another example relates to when airline reservations are being sought. All of a person s preferences which today are normally sorted one by one through a travel agent could be utilized by the advertising and selling mechanism to provide the informed response.

In addition to the search criterion as users interact with the advertising system it will continue to compile preference data e.g. a list of keywords for each user. All preferences for example can be left in a type of default mode or even presented to the user for him her to edit and re prioritize in order to look for diversity or alternatives. The system can detect exceptions and contradictions so that the end user can be shown immediately that some of the options would violate natural tendencies.

Some of the search patterns or preferences will be keyed off of natural interests also such as social family political technological geographical environmental educational and so on. Once these preferences are known then an advertisement or a proposed customized product brochure can be prepared.

This invention is also enhanced by advances in technology occurring in the emerging ubiquitous data world such as new software languages. One example is Java . Java is an environment that can be exported to an end users platform to run an application which may include graphics moving demonstrations cartoon like explanations or even video. The Java like environment could be used to customize with more than name it can be used to customize with detailed examples.

One other opportunity presented to service providers is the potential to create new and better ways to improve the environment presented to end users of various classes by remembering what was effective for a sale to occur. In this way key elements of a presentation or search that have higher success can be put into a higher priority or category for further use and therefore more rapid development through even more intense feedback due to subsequent use.

While this invention can be integrated with traditional Internet search engines such as Yahoo or Lycos full advantage can be obtained by integrating the invention with an Internet Access provider. An Internet Access Provider can maintain a more complete user database. Customers are localized so individual databases will contain fewer users. This allows more database space to be allocated to each user. In addition more detailed information can be maintained such as geographical location type of home computer system and any additional information the user may choose to provide to the Internet Access Provider.

It is anticipated that the Java environment will develop so that it too will learn and adapt. As a user continues to stop presentations at certain points scan re scan look for further input at certain points abort a negotiation and so on at certain points then such points or logic routines could be avoided or alternatives considered. The present invention proposes such a dynamic and relational preferences methodology in order to more rapidly and more effectively couple a user s needs with product or service offerings.

It is also recognized that these techniques may be applied to an educational environment where for example a student may be able to have an environment that is aurally enhanced another one that is visually enhanced another one that is textually enhanced and yet another that is anecdotally as opposed to logically enhanced. There are many other opportunities due to different personal proclivities strengths skills or disabilities.

Referring to shown is an advertising machine generally referenced by together with a data processing device and a communications link through which the device interacts with the advertising machine . The communications link may be provided by a global data network typically the Internet and the data processing device may be any conventional hardware software combination supporting functionality for communications over the Internet. Examples of the data processing device include a personal computer PC or Macintosh executing an appropriate browser application such as Netscape Navigator which functions as an interface to the World Wide Web WWW of the Internet. Functionality provided by the advertising machine may be implemented using an appropriately programmed conventional data processing server platform.

The advertising machine in this particular embodiment comprises a database search engine and an associative search engine which may access a database having contextual data and product data . The database search engine is conventional technology an example of which is the OpenText engine that provides searches based on subject strings boolean text etc. Such input search arguments may be received from an end user via the data processing device and data link and accordingly the database search engine effects a search of the contextual data in the database and returns results of the search to the end user as a page displayed on the device . The contextual database typically contains information relating to the Internet for instance keywords associated with respective WWW site locations.

The associative search engine in accordance with the present invention may contain rule based software algorithms or non precise techniques such as fuzzy logic that can correlate a search argument derived from the user and changes in the argument during a single session to particular product data within the product database . The associative search engine selects the most logical product from its available data and then provides an advertisement insert that is added to the end user s search page in an attempt to present the end user with the product that is closest to the need as determined by the associative search engine of the selling machine .

In operation for example the process effected when an end user at the device accesses the advertising machine is as follows.

1 The end user device sends a search request outlining the search argument to the database search engine .

2 The search engine having carried out a traditional search of Internet related information in the contextual data passes the argument and results of the its search to the associative search engine which then looks for a match in the product data of the database . The associative search engine may determine a logical product fit to the initial search argument or it may create a logical tree analysis of possible product fits and selects a probable best product for an advertisement window to be displayed with the search results.

3 The associative engine passes the data of the selected product to the search engine which in turn provides the results of the search against the given argument together with the initial product advertisement to the device for displaying to the end user.

4 The end user refines his or her search by either clicking on a displayed result or refining their search through additional arguments or search criteria.

5 The associative search engine and the database search engine again work together in providing refined data as in 2 above. In the case of the end user clicking on i.e. selecting a specific search result the associative search engine further refines its logical tree strategy and selects the probable best fit product and generates an advertisement.

6 The end user search results advertisement window is continually updated on each selection or refinement using a technology such as Java providing the end user with a continually updated product advertisement that is considered to be most relevant best fit at that point in the search. In addition failure of the end user to click on the advertisement is used as a criterion in the logical tree in providing the appropriate advertisement.

7 Once the end user clicks on selects the advertisement displayed on the device an appropriate message is sent to the advertising machine and in particular to the associative search engine which may automatically connect the end user to the seller of the product for instance by forwarding the browser of the end user device to the WWW site address of the seller. In the product data for this seller the associative search engine may record that this transaction occurred in order that a toll for bringing a buyer and seller together may be extracted.

Moreover user profile data may be maintained on end user device and accessed by the associative search engine . The profile data contains for example end user preferences and previous search arguments which may be used to augment the individual search arguments received with the search request to select a best fit product advertisement. The associative search engine retrieves and updates the profile data on the device using appropriate messages exchanged over the communications link . For example the search arguments from the current search session may be added to the user profile data.

Turning to the system illustrated in the advertising machine similar to the machine in is integrated as part of the functionality embodied at an Internet access provider equipment site which typically includes a telephone network terminating equipment a router through which TCP IP packets are transmitted to and received from the Internet and a server which in general controls operation and couples data calls terminated by equipment to router . The link represents a data call established through the telephone network to the access provider site .

The associative search engine of machine contains software algorithms or non precise techniques such as fuzzy logic that correlates a search argument derived from the user and changes in the argument during a single session with the product database whereby the most logical product from its available list may be selected. It then provides an advertisement insert that is added to the end user s search page in an attempt to offer the end user with the product that is closest to the need as determined by the associative search engine .

The access provider site incorporating the advertising machine is the sole channel available to the end user for accessing the Internet. When an end user carries out a search using the search engine and clicks on selects a specific result or chooses an alternate information site address the information is passed to the associative search engine of that access provider . Thus not only the page with the search results but also the home page of the access provider can be updated with the appropriate advertisement which is selected by the associative search engine from the product database . In addition since the data processing device of the end user is connected through the access provider site for all destinations within the Internet a comprehensive user profile database may be maintained by the associative search engine about the end users preferences and previous search arguments which may be used to augment the individual search argument received with the search request to select a best fit product advertisement.

In operation for example the process effected when an end user at the device accesses the Internet through access provider site is as follows.

1 The end users access the search engine provided as a basic service by the access provider and requests a search outlining the search argument.

2 The search engine passes the argument and results of its search in database to the associative search engine which looks for a match in the product database determining a logical product fit to the initial search argument. The associative search engine creates a logical tree analysis of possible product fits and selects or creates a probable best product advertisement for the advertisement window on the search results. In this case the associative search engine also can utilize the maintained profile on the end user from past search sessions and or historical data gathered on their buying habits in the product selection processing. The associative search engine correlates the user s identity to data in the user profile database which it maintains and updates with data e.g. search argument received with search request from the current search session.

3 The search engine provides the end user with the results of the search against the given argument including the initial product advertisement from the associative search engine . The results and advertisement are displayed by end user device .

4 The end user refines his her search by either clicking on a result or refining their search through additional arguments or search criteria.

5 The associative search engine and the database search engine again work together in providing refined data as in 2 above. In the case of the end user clicking on selecting a specific search result the associative search engine further refines its logical tree strategy and selects the probable best fit product and generates an advertisement.

6 The end user device search results advertisement window is continually updated on each selection or refinement using a technology such as Java providing the end user with a continually updated product advertisement that is considered to be most relevant best fit at that point in the search. In addition failure of the end user to click on the advertisement is used as a criterion in the logical tree in providing the appropriate advertisement. The access provider s home page sent to the end user can also contain a specialized advertisement constructed from the end user s profile data e.g. searches and or buying habits .

7 Once the end user is led to click on the advertisement the associative search engine of the selling machine takes control and connects the potential buyer to the WWW site of the seller of the product thereby exacting a toll for the transaction of bringing a buyer and seller together.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that various modifications and changes could be made to the invention without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. It should therefore be understood that the claims are not to be considered as being limited to the precise embodiments of the selling machine set forth above in the absence of specific limitations directed to each embodiment.

