---

title: Watermarking media assets at the network edge
abstract: Watermarking techniques are described which can be performed at network edge locations such as a Content Delivery Network (CDN) point-of-presence (POP). An edge server can identify users by request and apply a watermark based on the user to media content stored locally. Performance is improved by moving the watermarking from a central location closer to the user in terms of network proximity. An edge server can receive instructions on what type of watermark to assign and how to assign it. The edge server can use requester's identity to create and apply watermarks at the time of transferring media content to the requester. Individualized watermarking is applied to the bits transmitted to the device, the watermark indicating the specific user downloading the stream, time of transmission, etc. Watermarking can be applied throughout all of the frames of the media content rather than merely attaching it at a specific place.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058645&OS=09058645&RS=09058645
owner: AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09058645
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
in recent years there has been a surge of development and releases of new types of mobile devices made available to the public. Today s consumer is often equipped with a smart phone tablet MP3 player or other device that can be used to access the internet download and view digital media e.g. video and audio files and perform a wide variety of other functions. Given such large numbers of devices and device types it is quickly becoming a non trivial task to make media content available to all of the consumers across their various devices. In fact many companies are spending large fractions of their time and resources managing scaling and maintaining media processing systems that may have nothing to do with their core business. These companies are looking for encoding systems and services that can provide the best video audio quality to consumers at a low cost. Because digital video and audio content is often delivered to multiple device types over unmanaged networks with fluctuating bandwidth it is desirable to utilize transcoding to produce a version of each asset to accommodate these variants.

Transcoding is the decoding and recoding of digital content from one format to another. Transcoding is often necessary to enable playback of media on different devices. It can be used to convert a digital audio video file and video streams from one digital form or codec to another e.g. MPEG2 to h.264 transcoding . Transcoding can also be used to adjust the bit rate of a video file and resize video resolution. Transcoding takes place in order for content to reach multi screen end user destinations. The complexity of transcoding comes from the vast range of devices networks and channels that may need to be supported.

Watermarking is the process of embedding identity information into a digital audio or video signal. This embedded information may subsequently be used to verify the authenticity of the signal or the identity of its owners. A signal can carry one or multiple watermarks embedded therein.

A content delivery network CDN is an interconnected network of computer nodes that contain copies of various types of data. CDNs are used to deliver content to end users in a more efficient manner by bringing the data in closer proximity to the end user. Using a CDN can improve access to the data cached at the nodes by increasing access bandwidth redundancy and reducing access latency. CDNs are often used to provide access to media content.

In the following description various embodiments will be illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings. References to various embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations and other details are discussed it is to be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may overcome one or more of the foregoing or other deficiencies experienced in conventional approaches for watermarking media. In particular the various embodiments provide approaches for watermarking digital media content at the network edge e.g. CDN point of presence per individual user request.

In accordance with various embodiments a set of watermarking techniques are described that can be performed by a component located at the network edge such as by a server residing at a Content Delivery Network CDN point of presence POP . A watermarking system or service located at the network edge can identify users based on the information contained in their requests and apply a watermark to a copy of media content wherein the watermark is specific to the information about the user or the user s request. This can improve performance by moving the watermarking from a conventional central location to for example a network edge server.

In accordance with an embodiment the watermarking of media content can be performed upon transcoding the media content at the network edge. The edge server can receive instructions on what type of watermark to assign and how to assign it. The edge server can then use the requester s identity to generate a watermark which will be applied to the media content transferred to that requester. In this manner individualized watermarking can be applied to the bits transmitted to the device e.g. watermark can indicate the specific user that downloaded the specific stream time of transmission and the like . In addition because the watermarking is performed at the time of transcoding the content the watermarking can be applied throughout all of the frames of the media file instead of only attaching it at a specific place e.g. front of the file end of the file as in conventional implementations.

In various embodiments the system for watermarking and transcoding media can be provided by a service provider that provides a set of resources in a multi tenant computing environment e.g. cloud computing environment . For example the service provider may provide the content delivery network CDN for delivering media content to various end users. The CDN can include a number of points of presence POPs distributed in a variety of geographic locations. In at least one embodiment the watermarking of media content can be performed by a server or other component residing in one or more of the POPs of the service provider.

As illustrated a service provider environment can include a variety of devices and components for receiving and processing requests from various users across one or more networks . As discussed access to these resources can be provided as one or more services such as Web services. In this example the service provider environment includes a plurality of resources such as data storage resources and request processing resources that can be deployed in one or more resource centers in one or more locations and made accessible over the one or more networks . As used throughout this disclosure a network can be any wired or wireless network of devices that are capable of communicating with each other including but not limited to the Internet or other Wide Area Networks WANs cellular networks Local Area Networks LANs Storage Area Networks SANs Intranets Extranets and the like. The resource centers can include any physical or logical grouping of resources such as a data center a server farm content delivery network CDN point of presence POP and the like.

In accordance with various embodiments resource centers of the service provider may include various computer servers data storage machines network devices and other hardware resources necessary to provide the network accessible services on behalf of the clients of the service provider. For example as shown in the resource centers can include physical servers and other devices located in a particular geographical location which enable the service provider to transcode process and or deliver media content to viewer devices . In accordance with an embodiment a resource center can include media cache servers transcoding servers watermarking servers and the like. The view of one of the resource centers is shown in an exploded view to provide further illustration of the types of resources that can be contained in a resource center in accordance with various embodiments. It should be noted that the resources can reside in one resource center or can alternatively be distributed across multiple resource centers.

In accordance with various embodiments the service provider offers a media transcoding and processing service in addition to many other services discussed herein. In one embodiment the media transcoding and processing service can perform the transcoding jobs of media content stored in data stores e.g. source store destination store of the service provider . In alternative embodiments the media transcoding and processing service may perform various other functions such as transmuxing the media adding security information e.g. watermarks to the media translating the media or adding subtitles and the like.

In accordance with an embodiment components of the service provider environment enable a content publisher to provide e.g. upload a media file to a source store and to schedule the transcoding jobs to be performed thereon. In various embodiments the source store may be located on the resource center of the service provider or on a remote system such as the system of the content publisher . As an example the content publisher can upload content such as a media file to a source store and specify that a set of selected workflows should be applied to the media file. A workflow can apply a particular profile s to the media content. In accordance with an embodiment a profile contains all the information e.g. settings parameters etc. that may be necessary to transcode the media content into the specific encoding format for a particular device operating system or application. For example one or more profiles can be provided to transcode certain types of media content into formats suitable for iPhone IOS Android Microsoft Windows Phone and other mobile device operating systems. The media transcoding and processing service then carries out the workflow including potentially transcoding the media content stored on a source store into the appropriate encodings. Once workflow is complete the resulting media content can be placed into a destination store . The destination store may be located on the resource center of the service provider or a remote system such as the system of the content publisher or other entity such as the content receiver . As such in this example the media content located in the destination source has had the workflow applied. From the destination store the media content can be made available to a content receiver or the various viewer devices for download. In alternative embodiments the processed content could be made available to any other entities including the content publisher or third party service providers.

It should be noted that the term transcoding is often associated with a profile or a workflow in this disclosure however the profiles workflows and various other features of this disclosure are not limited to changing the encoding format of media and in some embodiments may not include changing the encoding format at all. For example a profile or workflow may include transmuxing digital watermarking segmenting applying access controls adding meta data inserting advertisements translating into various languages transcribing changing bit rates sequencing changing or adding audio associated with a video or modifying customizing or making compatible various other features of content in any other manner. By way of illustration one workflow could include segmenting a video file for multi bitrate support and adding audio to the video file and another workflow could include digital watermarking and applying access controls to the file. In accordance with the present disclosure transcoding may often be a part of various workflows but is not a required part of every workflow discussed herein.

In accordance with an embodiment the transcoding service can execute the transcoding jobs using the compute instances of the service provider. In one embodiment each compute instance is a virtual server resource or virtual node having a specific processing capacity and memory associated therewith which allows the service provider to meter the usage of the transcoding service by each client e.g. the service provider may charge per hour of computing resource consumed . In an alternative embodiment the compute instances can be actual server machines in the data center maintained by the service provider and leased to its customers e.g. content publisher .

It should be noted that while illustrates a source store and a destination store located in resource center the locations of such stores are not limited to any particular resource center server or physical computing device. It will be evident to one of ordinary skill in the art that various stores storage containers servers compute instances transcoding services and other resources described herein can be located in any resource center or distributed across multiple resource centers or geographical locations allowing data or content to be replicated across all or some of the devices therein. For example the resource center could be in Europe the resource center could be Asia and the resource center could be in the United States. In various embodiments the various storage containers servers compute instances transcoding services and other resources described herein could also reside on a single device.

In accordance with various embodiments the transcoding service can provide content publishers with an automated transcoding and workflow system that is reliable and scalable. The content publishers may define the transcoding parameters on their own or leverage a set of predefined common device profiles that are provided by the service provider. The transcoding service can allow the content publishers to upload content to the storage instance define a workflow store the resulting encoded assets on the service provider s system and deliver their media assets to viewers or others for example via a content delivery network CDN of the service provider. In other examples the media assets are made available or delivered to third parties for distributing the media assets or for providing additional services.

Generally a content publisher e.g. customer of the service provider can register for an account by signing up for example with the service provider to gain access to media transcoding and processing service. Once an account is created media assets e.g. video files to be transcoded are placed into an input store on the service provider. A workflow can be defined using an application programming interface API or console for example to initiate a transcoding job which will be carried out using one or more of the compute instances . The resulting transcoded object s are placed into a defined output store or some other specified location such as a location on the system of the content publisher or the content receiver . Alternatively the transcoding service can cache the media assets at the network edge and perform the transcoding dynamically on a per request basis depending on the type of requesting device.

In various embodiments the media transcoding and processing service can accept media content in a wide variety of incoming formats and can convert the content into a comprehensive collection of output encodings. For example the transcoding service can transcode to the media to formats suitable for common devices such as Android and Apple IOS based devices Flash and HTML5 platforms by providing a set of pre defined device profiles. The pre defined profiles can be leveraged by the content publisher when setting up a job via the API or via the graphical console. These profiles can be used as is or modified into a custom profile to be reusable for subsequent transcoding job requests.

The content publisher may be any content creator content distributor user generated content publisher or any other entity that possess media content and desires to make that content available to viewers or other entities. Examples of content creators may be motion picture studios universities producing educational content private organizations producing internal video content and other organizations such as online real estate and auto sales companies producing videos to increase sales. Content distributors may be cable and television service providers music distributors movie purveyors and the like. Examples of user generated content publishers may be social media companies video uploading services and any other entity that stores content on behalf of its viewers. The content receiver can be any entity that is provided with content that has been transcoded or otherwise processed by the transcoding service. For example the content receiver may be a third party movie distributor that wishes to provide the transcoded video content on its own website.

In accordance with an embodiment the service provider can provide a content repository for all types of media files for transcoding and encoding. By focusing on the particular requirements of content publishers e.g. multiple input types scale to handle spikes and a vast range of delivery targets the transcoding service can provide a solution that can help any type of customer or entity of the service provider.

In accordance with various embodiments the service provider may implement a number of pricing models for using the transcoding service. As one option the pricing of transcoding service could be based on the usage of compute instances that are utilized by the content publisher . For example on demand transcoding instances can let customers of the service provider pay for compute capacity by the hour that their transcoding instance runs. This can free the content publisher from the costs and complexities of planning purchasing and maintaining hardware and transforms what are commonly large fixed costs into much smaller variable costs.

As an alternative option the content publishers can use reserved transcoding instances. When using reserved transcoding instances content publishers make a one time up front payment for each transcoding instance they wish to reserve for a long period of time e.g. 1 3 year term . In return the customer may be given a discount off the ongoing hourly usage rate for the transcoding instances.

As an alternative option a set of spot instances could be utilized. In accordance with an embodiment spot instances enable a content publisher to bid on and purchase unused capacity of the compute instances of other customers at a market place. In some embodiments instances sold on the spot market may be reclaimed at any moment if they are needed for customers that have previously reserved the computing capacity. Spot instances may be especially useful for handling seasonal or project peak demand and large library re encodes for new codecs. In some cases the spot instances may be used for transcoding jobs that are not extremely urgent because using those instances may incur the risk that other users may be using them and therefore none of the spot instances are available. In other cases however using spot instances may be an effective way to get extremely urgent work performed cheaply if there is a significant number of spot instances available. Taking advantage of low bid opportunities for instances can enable a customer e.g. content publisher with pricing advantages they have not been offered without building out transcoding services on their own.

As an alternative option pricing by gigabyte or other unit of transcoded content output may be employed by the transcoding service. In accordance with an embodiment gigabyte GB usage could be calculated by adding the size of the input file and the combined size of the output files. For example if a 1 GB file were to be transcoded into two formats each producing a 0.5 GB file the total amount billed would be 2 GB.

As an alternative option the transcoding service could charge by output video minutes e.g. the cumulative minutes of the output transcoded media . Calculation of content length in minutes by the number of output formats could give customers an expectation of what they will be billed. The transcoding service could control the number of unique compute instances that would be launched to support a transcoding job since licensing costs may be determined by the number of instances launched for a given user.

As mentioned above the transcoding service can be configured to accept media content in a wide variety of incoming formats and can convert the content into a comprehensive collection of output encodings including various media formats and bitrates. The media transcoding and processing service could include an API user portal or graphical user interface GUI that includes locations stores for a content publisher to upload media files. The input store may include any storage bucket container directory memory location or any other place where media can be located. In some embodiments the input store could have a unique profile associated therewith for transcoding the media file to produce an output of the media file in various predefined media formats. There could be an input location for commonly used profiles and for combinations of commonly used profiles. Alternatively the workflows and profiles can be selected and applied based on various attributes of the media file e.g. file name metadata etc. rather than being associated with the input store itself.

As previously described a content publisher can provide the media content to the source store or some other storage location provided by the service provider . The service provider can then transfer the media content to a cache server or another server residing at the content delivery network CDN point of presence POP in order to make access to it more efficient for users proximate to that POP. In an alternative embodiment the content publisher may provide the media content directly to the POP from a location on the content publisher . As previously mentioned the CDN of the service provider may include a plurality of POPs such as POP which may be geographically distributed to various locations that are proximate to the end users and devices. Several POPs can use the same internet protocol IP address and the routing scheme can be utilized that to find a POP that is the closest to an end user in terms of network hops required to reach it. It should be noted that while the source store is shown as being located outside of POP in this is not intended to be a limitation to the various embodiments described herein. In some embodiments the source store may be located at the same POP and therefore may not need to be transferred. In other embodiments the source store may be located at another POP or other resource center and the transfer of the media content from the source store to the POP may occur in response to receiving the request for the media content at POP . Alternatively the transfer of the media content from the source store to POP may be performed automatically upon placement of the media content into the source store.

In accordance with the illustrated embodiment POP can include a number of cache servers capable of storing a copy of the media content locally to be made available to the various requesting devices. In addition the POP may include a transcoding service . When a viewer device e.g. device requests the media content from the POP the request can be inspected to determine a device type or application type OS type browser type etc. associated with the requesting viewer based on information contained in the request. For example based on the HTTP header information contained in the request it may be determined that the device requesting the media file is a mobile phone running the Apple IOS operating system. In accordance with various embodiments each device type can be associated with a particular type of encoding format that is suitable to display or render the media file on that device. In addition a profile may be associated with the device type and may contain all of the processing settings and parameters necessary to transcode the media content into the format appropriate for the device.

In accordance with an embodiment once the type of device requesting the content is identified the POP can make a determination whether the copy of the media content is in the appropriate format for being displayed on the requesting device . If the media content is already in the appropriate format the cache server can simply provide the cached copy to the requesting device . If on the other hand the media file is not in the correct format to be displayed on the requesting device the cache server can provide the media content to the transcoding service having a transcoding engine to perform dynamic transcoding of the media content . In accordance with an embodiment the transcoding service can utilize a graphics processing unit GPU configuration to transcode the media content in an optimal performance manner. For example the transcoding service can use the compute unified device architecture CUDA as the computing engine in the GPU to encode the video content into the appropriate format for the requesting device. It should be noted that as previously mentioned the term transcoding is not necessarily limited to changing the format of the media content but may also include performing such functions as transmuxing digital watermarking segmenting applying access controls adding meta data inserting advertisements translating into various languages transcribing changing bit rates sequencing changing or adding audio associated with a video or modifying customizing or making compatible various other features of content in any other manner. For example if a requesting device is not able to handle a certain quality video stream or a certain data transfer rate the transcoding service may adjust the quality of the video stream or the data transfer rate to accommodate the device.

In accordance with an embodiment the transcoding service can transcode the media content on the fly into the correct encoding format when responding to the request by transmitting bits of the media content to device . For example the POP can stream the bits that have been encoded into the proper format to the device while the transcoding engine is transcoding the remaining bits of the media content. In accordance with one embodiment the POP can utilize an initial burst mode to stream the beginning portion of the media content transcoded at one bit rate and then complete the remaining portion of the media content at a different bit rate. Alternatively the POP can utilize more compute instances to transcode the first portion of the media content at a faster rate during the burst mode and subsequently reduce the number of compute instances. This can help avoid any latency on the part of the requesting device that may be viewing the media content as it is being transcoded and streamed to it.

In accordance with an embodiment if the transcoding service detects that the requesting device has ceased downloading the media the dynamic transcoding can be terminated in order to save the computing resources of the POP . For example if the user stops viewing the video file the transcoding service can halt the transcoding process and apply the GPU resource to other transcoding jobs that may be needed.

In accordance with various embodiments a service provider may implement a POP to deliver the media content of the various content publishers to the viewers and end users. As illustrated the content publisher may begin by providing or uploading the media content to a source store or some other storage location owned by the service provider or the content publisher. The storage location can be located on any data store or server that is made available for use by the content publisher.

In addition to providing the media content the content publisher can also supply a set of watermarking directions specifying how a watermark should be used with distribution of the media content. The watermarking instructions can specify what type of watermark to apply the content of the watermark where in the media content to apply the watermark and the like. In accordance with various embodiments the watermarking instructions can be supplied by the content distributor via a request to from the service provider by using an application programming interface API submitting an extensible markup language XML file providing an algorithm to generate the watermark providing a set of watermarks themselves in a file or by some other means. The watermarking instructions may take the form of key value pairs code binary executable file or any other way to specify instructions.

Once the media content has been provided to the service provider copies of the media content may be moved to the POP and optionally cached at a cache server residing at the POP . The caching of the media at the POP can be performed automatically upon receiving the upload of the file or alternatively the copy can be cached when the POP receives a request for the media content and provides the media to the viewer . In addition to caching the media content the watermarking instructions or a portion thereof can also be communicated to the POP from the source store or another storage location.

In accordance with an embodiment the POP may receive a request for the media file from a viewer or other end user. Based on the information contained in the request the CDN POP can identify the user that has submitted the request. Based on this information the watermarking service at the CDN POP can generate the watermark associated with the user based on the watermarking directions received from the content publisher . The watermark will serve to uniquely identify the user or the copy of the media provided to the user at some later time for purposes of authenticity digital rights management DRM or the like. Once the watermark is generated it can be applied to the media content at the time of responding to the request and delivering the content from the CDN POP to a viewer .

It should be noted that although the transcoding service and the watermarking service are shown in to be separate components this is not a requirement for all embodiments described herein. In various alternative embodiments the watermarking service can be integrated with the transcoding service or alternatively the watermarking service and the transcoding service may be virtual servers residing on the same physical device. In some embodiments the watermarking server may be a separate server from the caching server and the transcoding server. In certain cases it may be desirable to implement logic for routing the request for media content to a specific watermarking server. For example if a particular watermarking server already has the watermarking code primed or for security reasons it may be advantageous to use that particular watermarking server to insert the watermark.

In accordance with an embodiment the watermarking of the media content can be performed as part of the transcoding service at the CDN POP . For example the watermark can be applied at the time that the transcoding service is transcoding the media content for delivery. Because the watermark can be applied as part of transcoding the media file from one encoding to another individualized watermarking can be added to the bits that are being transmitted to the end user device. For example a watermark can be added which identifies which specific user downloaded the specific stream. Additionally individualized DRM can be layered. In accordance with an embodiment the watermark can be used by the network edge server to select which format to transcode the media content into. For example rather than selecting the encoding format according to the device requesting the content the network edge server may instead select a different encoding format based at least in part on the watermark itself.

In accordance with an embodiment because the watermark is applied while transcoding it can be applied throughout a media file e.g. inserted into all frames of a video rather than merely at the front or end of the file like in conventional implementations. This allows for more secure watermarking since the watermark becomes part of the actual content and is not easily removable from the media file. For example if a watermark has been embedded into every single frame of a video it becomes significantly more difficult to remove the watermark than if the watermark was simply attached to the file in some other way.

In accordance with various embodiments performing the watermarking of media at the edge rather than from a central server enables the content owner to distribute a single copy to all of the POP servers gaining the cost and speed efficiency in distribution while still being able to apply individualized watermarks to identify each individual copy that was distributed to the user.

As shown in operation the content publisher can provide media content to a source store provided by a service provider. The media content can be any digital video audio or graphics content that is desired to be provided to the various end users. In accordance with an embodiment the content publisher can upload the media content using an API or other interface exposed by the service provider.

In operation the content publisher may further supply a set of watermarking instructions to be used in connection with distribution of the media content. In accordance with an embodiment the watermarking instructions can specify what type of watermark the content publisher wishes to apply to the media the location s in the media content where the watermark should be inserted and the like. For example a publisher may desire that the requesting end user s credentials be hashed and used to watermark the digital media content. As another example the content publisher may wish that a logo indicating the publisher be embedded into the media content.

In operation the media content can be cached at a content delivery network point of presence. For example whenever a viewer first requests to download the media content the CDN POP can retrieve a copy of the media content and provide it to the user. Thereafter the CDN POP cache servers can cache the content to optimize performance for future requests. Alternatively the media content can be automatically sent down to the CDN POP cache servers upon providing the media content to the service provider.

In operation the CDN POP receives a viewer s request for the media content. For example a user can request to stream a video by using a mobile phone. Since the CDN POP is located in closer proximity to the viewer in terms of network hops it can provide improved download performance and lower latency for downloading the media content.

In operation the media content can be provided to a transcoding service or a watermarking service. In accordance with an embodiment the watermarking service can be integrated into the transcoding service such that it is applied at the time of transcoding the media. Alternatively the watermarking can be performed by a separate dedicated watermarking service located at the CDN POP.

In operation the information contained in the request is analyzed in order to generate the watermark. In accordance with an embodiment the HTTP header information can be analyzed to identify the user e.g. viewer that initiated the request for the media content. Alternatively some other credential or information associated with the request can be obtained.

In operation the watermarking service at the CDN POP can generate a unique watermark to identify the media content. The watermark can be generated by taking into account the watermarking instructions that were supplied by the content publisher. In accordance with an embodiment the watermark can be constructed by the transcoding service or by a separate watermarking service and applied to the media content.

In operation the watermark is embedded into the media content at the time of encoding the content and delivering it to the viewer. For example when the transcoding service transcodes the media content from one encoding format to a different encoding format it can insert the watermark which is unique to the requesting user into the media content. In accordance with an embodiment the media content can be watermarked as it is being encoded and streamed to the user. In alternative embodiments the watermark can be inserted upon performing a variety of other functions to the media content including but not limited to transmuxing transrating segmenting applying access controls adding meta data inserting advertisements translating into various languages transcribing changing bit rates sequencing changing or adding audio associated with a video or modifying customizing or other function on the media content as described in this disclosure.

If the media content should be watermarked the edge server can inspect the parameters of the request and identify the user that has initiated the request as shown in step . Once the information in the request has been identified the edge server can generate a watermark based on that information step . The watermark can then be inserted into the media content as shown in step . For example the watermark can be attached while the media content is being transcoded into the encoding appropriate for display at the user s device. The media content can then be transmitted to the user with the watermark embedded therein as shown in step . In accordance with an embodiment the process of encoding the watermark can be performed while simultaneously streaming the bits that have been encoded or watermarked to the user in response to the request.

Various embodiments discussed or suggested herein can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

