---

title: Device identification for externalizing password from device coupled with user control of external password service
abstract: Information and data stored by a mobile device is protected by comprising applying password-protection to the locally-stored information without persistently storing the corresponding password locally. Rather, the corresponding password is stored by a remote password server. In response to a trigger event on the mobile device, such as an unlocking action by the user, a request is sent by the mobile device to the password server to retrieve the corresponding server, and the corresponding password is returned to the mobile device. The mobile device can then use the password to access the protected information. If the user determines that the mobile device is lost, stolen, or out of the user's physical control, the user may access the password server and disable the sending of the password to the mobile device, thereby thwarting attempts to access the protected data on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08931081&OS=08931081&RS=08931081
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08931081
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
The invention generally relates to methods and mechanisms to protect data and information stored on mobile devices which if physical control of the mobile device is lost may be compromised by unauthorized users.

Mobile devices such as smart phones cellular phones netbooks pad computers tablet computers and laptop computers can contain a wealth of private information of the user or owner. Some of this information is intentionally stored in the mobile device and is known to be there by the user or owner while other information is stored in the device due to the manner in which certain components operate without the user or owner necessarily knowing it is there. Examples of the former are passwords and passcodes which the user authorizes or configures the device to store and use on behalf of the user. Example of the latter include data which is stored by the device by virtue of its operation such as information stored in a cache memory.

Because these types of mobile devices are often expensive they have intrinsic value to thieves for possible resale of the device itself and they also present an opportune target for identity theft due to the information they contain.

In the case of theft of such a mobile device passwords stored on a device can be cracked allowing the thief to steal any of the information. One current approach to solve this problem is locking the device with a master password which must be entered in order to access or use the device. Incorrect entry of the master password can trigger deletion of the confidential information stored by the device. This prevents access of the confidential data by anyone who cracks the password.

However the requirement to enter such a password prior to use and the optional requirement to intentionally lock the device by the user between uses can be annoying to users that don t want to have to type in a long password in order to use the phone. This inconvenience leads to many users bypassing or not installing this additional security mechanism.

With the increasing trend in consumerization of devices used by employees to perform their business function such mobile devices increasingly store corporate confidential information as well as personal confidential information such as phone lists email addresses passwords to log into virtual private networks certificates to authenticate the user to certain enterprise operations such as reviewing customer orders accessing financial data etc.

However Information Technology departments are finding it increasingly difficult to enforce security policy in the same way they can on company owned computing devices. Users want to be able to use their own personal or private device for business use without the hassle of having to enter a password every time they want to unlock the phone.

Information and data stored by a mobile device is protected by comprising applying password protection to the locally stored information without persistently storing the corresponding password locally. Rather the corresponding password is stored by a remote password server. In response to a trigger event on the mobile device such as an unlocking action by the user a request is sent by the mobile device to the password server to retrieve the corresponding server and the corresponding password is returned to the mobile device. The mobile device can then use the password to access the protected information. If the user determines that the mobile device is lost stolen or out of the user s physical control the user may access the password server and disable the sending of the password to the mobile device thereby thwarting attempts to access the protected data on the mobile device.

The inventors of the present and the related invention have recognized problems not yet recognized by those skilled in the relevant arts regarding convenient yet effective methods for allowing personal mobile devices to protect confidential computing enterprises and resources.

Embodiments according to the invention provide for data to be encrypted on a mobile device with a key or password externalizing the password from the device and providing a Uniform Resource Locator URL where the mobile device can automatically retrieve the password as part of the decryption process. In the case of theft or compromise of the URL the URL can be disabled automatically or manually by a corporate administrator thereby preventing any unauthorized user from being able to decrypt the data on the device. The phone can identify itself to the password URL using a number of mechanisms depending on the nature of the current security schemes and mechanisms already in place in the computing environment.

Although various solutions exist for protecting data on devices the present inventors have recognized that none of these solutions consider the problem of how to protect data automatically without the inconvenience of the user managing the password on the device or being in control of disabling that protection.

Some of the currently known and currently used networked computing security processes employ exchanging a first token for a second token during the authentication process. For existing system designs using this pattern typically a user or device authenticates and receives a first token token1 and then the first token is exchanged for a second token token2. With an enhancement according to the present invention the user or device does not authenticate to receive token1 but instead token1 is stored on the mobile device. Subsequently the exchange of token1 for token2 is used to provide a means to disable as opposed to enable the use of the mobile device through blocking access to token2 rather than a means to verify the identity of the owner of token1.

Another networked computing security process often employed in systems having current technology involves a long term session key and a short lived token. The long term session key is periodically or occasionally exchanged for a new short lived key. An open standard for such a scheme is OAuth promulgated by the IETF organization which is presently in version 2.0 draft status.

Oauth 2.0 allows a user to avoid repeated authentication by having a long term refresh token that can be exchanged for a short lived OAuth token session key . It relies on keeping the long term token secure e.g. by coupling with a shared secret and the long term token can be invalidated on the server in case of a security breach. The differences in this approach and embodiments according to the present invention are 

A well known secondary mechanism for authenticating a user or device to a service is to use a unique identification associated with the mobile device such as a mobile telephone number or electronic serial number ESN . The currently known pattern of having the device automatically initiate a call to a service as a mechanism for identifying the device to the service can be used in embodiments according to the present invention but in such enhanced embodiments a password or token to unlock the device would not be automatically returned to the device as a result.

According to U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 532 to Yugun Chen et al. a method is provided whereby a mobile device not the user of the mobile device is authenticated to a remote server wherein the remote server stores a key which has been used to previously encrypt certain data on the mobile device. When the device is successfully authenticated the server passes the key to the mobile device so that it may decrypt the data stored on it locally. Embodiments according to the present invention however operate differently in addition to or in place of this functionality 

The following logical processes may be realized in electronic circuitry such as in customized integrated circuit design or in a combination of programmable processor executing program code or program instructions or in a combination of electronic circuitry program code and a processor.

Many embodiments according to the invention consist of the following elements and interactions between the elements 

When the device is stolen lost or otherwise at risk of being compromised the user can disable the data protecting password and thus prevent anyone from either unlocking the device or decrypting the confidential information on the mobile device. which are also described in more detail in the following paragraph depict example embodiments of such a process. Steps of at least one logical process according to the present invention include 

Referring now to at least one available process of interaction between systems components according to the invention is shown. A user s mobile device devices such as a smart phone cellular phone netbook computer pad computer tablet computer or laptop computer contains one or more items of protected information such as data files a list of passwords and login names photographs web browsing history etc. For the purposes of the present invention this information is stored locally on the mobile device in tangible computer readable storage memory devices such as random access memory flash memory hard drives etc. It is protected by a decrypting password which is not stored on the mobile device and which is stored remotely on a password server . By remotely inventors mean on a separate computing platform from the mobile device and preferably interconnected by a computing network such as a telephone network data network etc. such that physical access to one the mobile device or the password server does not imply physical access to the other mobile device or the password server .

According to a logical process according to the present invention a user uses the user interface of the mobile device to unlock a the mobile device such as through operating a slide button performing a screen swipe sequence operating a fingerprint recognizer operating a voice recognizer or performing a free space gesture detected by a motion detector of the mobile device. Optionally another trigger to a process according to the present invention is detection of a user attempt or program request to access the protected information stored locally on the mobile device.

Responsive to a user unlocking the device or responsive to a program or user attempting to access the protected locally stored information an electronic circuit a logical process being executed by a processor or combination of circuit and execution of a logical process sends a password request b to the password server such as transmission via the network . The password request in at least one embodiment includes one or more credentials for the mobile device and the request is sent to a special URL which is indicated or set aside for this operation. The password server then retrieves the decrypting password which is stored by the password server in tangible computer readable storage memory device s and transmits d the decrypting password to the mobile device preferably via the network .

The logical processes of the mobile device may now use this password to decrypt or otherwise access e f the protected information . According to at least one embodiment according to of the invention the password is not persistently stored by the mobile device and is deleted upon powering the mobile device off locking it or even upon expiration of a timer thereby requiring occasional or periodic retrieval of the decrypting password from the password server. In some embodiments the password may be retrieved every time it is needed to access the locally stored information. In other embodiments the password may be used for a period of time and then it may be refreshed after that period of time. An advantage of the per use retrieval is that each and every instance of accessing the protected information is interlocked with the password server and continued enablement by the user but this also requires the most transactions and communications between the mobile device and the password server. An advantage of the periodically expiring password and refreshing of the password is that transactions and communications between the mobile device and the password server are reduced but the ability of the user to immediately disable access to the protected data is also reduced according to the expiration period length.

Turning now to a signal flow diagram illustrates a logical process according to the present invention for a user to disable access to the confidential information stored on the mobile device such as when the mobile device has been lost stolen or physically surrendered. Using a user interface on another device the user authenticates g to the password server However in some situations such as just prior to physically surrendering the mobile device the user may perform these steps directly from the mobile device to disable access to its locally stored protected information.

After the password server validates the user s credentials the user is allowed to select a mobile device h especially if the user is associated with more than one device embodying the present invention and subsequently or in the same action to disable i the password server from providing the decrypting password to the selected mobile device. The password server responds appropriately such as by disabling the specially designated URL to which the password requests are sent by the mobile device.

Subsequent to the disabling when the mobile device attempts to retrieve the decrypting password j the mobile device would not be provided the decrypting password by the password server and in some embodiments may be provided a response such as a HTTP error 404 page not found error .

As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the examples provided thus far are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to represent the limitations of uses and embodiments according to the present invention. For example the methods of the present invention may be used to protect data on removable storage devices such as a removable hard drive units. And additional methods for disabling the decryption password is to reset the password e.g. change its value and to modify the URL where the password server answers the password requests.

The preceding paragraphs have set forth example logical processes according to the present invention which when coupled with processing hardware embody systems according to the present invention and which when coupled with tangible computer readable memory devices embody computer program products according to the related invention.

Regarding computers for executing the logical processes set forth herein it will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that a variety of computers are suitable and will become suitable as memory processing and communications capacities of computers and portable devices increases. In such embodiments the operative invention includes the combination of the programmable computing platform and the programs together. In other embodiments some or all of the logical processes may be committed to dedicated or specialized electronic circuitry such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits or programmable logic devices.

The present invention may be realized for many different processors used in many different computing platforms. illustrates a generalized computing platform such as common and well known computing platforms such as Personal Computers web servers such as an IBM iSeries server and portable devices such as personal digital assistants and smart phones running a popular operating systems such as Microsoft Windows or IBM AIX Palm OS Microsoft Windows Mobile UNIX LINUX Google Android Apple iPhone iOS and others may be employed to execute one or more application programs to accomplish the computerized methods described herein. These computing platforms and operating systems without the customized logical processes of the present invention are well known and openly described in any number of textbooks websites and public open specifications and recommendations diagrams and further details of these computing systems in general are readily available to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Many such computing platforms but not all allow for the addition of or installation of application programs which provide specific logical functionality and which allow the computing platform to be specialized in certain manners to perform certain jobs thus rendering the computing platform into a specialized machine. In some closed architectures this functionality is provided by the manufacturer and may not be modifiable by the end user.

The hardware portion of a computing platform typically includes one or more processors accompanied by sometimes specialized co processors or accelerators such as graphics accelerators and by suitable computer readable memory devices RAM ROM disk drives removable memory cards etc. . Depending on the computing platform one or more network interfaces may be provided as well as specialty interfaces for specific applications. If the computing platform is intended to interact with human users it is provided with one or more user interface devices such as display s keyboards pointing devices speakers etc. And each computing platform requires one or more power supplies battery AC mains solar etc. .

Available Variations in Embodiments Beyond the Examples Provided Herein. The terminology used in this disclosure is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof unless specifically stated otherwise.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It should also be recognized by those skilled in the art that certain embodiments utilizing a microprocessor executing a logical process may also be realized through customized electronic circuitry performing the same logical process es .

It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the foregoing example embodiments do not define the extent or scope of the present invention but instead are provided as illustrations of how to make and use at least one embodiment of the invention. The following claims define the extent and scope of at least one invention disclosed herein.

