---

title: Low fucose cell lines and uses thereof
abstract: A method of selecting cells having zero fucose level useful as host cells for expressing recombinant proteins is disclosed. The method comprises: (d) introducing genetic mutations into a population of CHO cells by contacting the cells with a methotrexate (MTX), (e) contacting the population of CHO cells comprising mutated cells with a non-toxic fucose binding agent for an amount of time that allows binding of the fucose binding agent to a fucose moiety on a cell membrane of the population of cells, wherein the amount of time does not allow killing of the cells; and (f) depleting from the population of cells comprising mutated cells, a subpopulation of cells which bind the fucose binding agent, thereby selecting cells useful as host cells for expressing recombinant proteins, the selected cells having zero fucose content. There are also disclosed cells and cell lines useful as host cells for expressing recombinant proteins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09574003&OS=09574003&RS=09574003
owner: Merck Serono S.A.
number: 09574003
owner_city: Coinsins
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120305
---
The present invention in some embodiments thereof relates to CHO cell lines methods of generating same and uses thereof.

Recombinant therapeutic antibodies play an important role in treatment of a large variety of diseases. It is estimated that about 30 of the new coming drugs are likely to be based on antibodies in the next decade. Thirty recombinant antibodies and Fc fusion were approved for marketing with sales in 2008 that reached 35 billion.

Antibodies contain a target antigen specific region which is composed of the variable regions of both the heavy and the light chains. This part of the antibody may bind and neutralize a soluble antigen or a membrane bound target.

The Fc portion is responsible for effector functions through antibody dependant cellular cytotoxicity ADCC mechanism complement dependant complex CDC and the neonatal receptor FcRn. Those effector functions are mediated through interaction of the effector molecules with the hinge and CH2 regions of the Fc. The CH2 domain contains an oligosaccharide located on the N glycosylation site at position 297 of the antibody which is known to play an important role in binding to effector cells. The oligosaccharide is usually composed of a complex diantennary type with considerable heterogeneity such as a core heptasaccharide together with additional variable outer sugar residues.

ADCC is one of the critical killing mechanisms for antibodies that bind ligands on target cells membrane. Fc R expressed on leucocytes bind the CH2 domain of the antibodies and upon binding and creation of immune complexes with antigens on the target cells activation of the leucocytes is initiated. The activation may include phagocytosis and release of cell mediators that lead to cell permeabilization and death. The ADCC activity is dependent on the IgG isotype on the one hand and on a specific Fc R on the other hand. Whereas IgG1 and IgG3 may induce this activity IgG4 does not. The Fc R that binds the IgG and is important for ADCC mechanism activation is known as the Fc RIIIa and is expressed on NK cells and macprophages. In many cases the ADCC activity obtained upon binding of the NK cell to the target cell is not efficient enough to perform killing of the target cell. The reason is that the affinity of the Fc RIIIa to the IgGI is low.

Increased ADCC activity was found in patients expressing the high affinity allotype Fc RIIIa 158Val found in 10 15 of the population in comparison to patients expressing the Fc RIIIa 158Phe. Elevated ADCC was obtained also by manipulations done on the IgG Fc. Computational design algorithms were used in order to engineer antibodies and select for high affinity by high throughput screening. This work yielded antibodies which display 2 orders of magnitude enhancement of in vitro effector function Lazar Dang et al. 2006 although decrease thermostability of mutated IgG1 IgG1 with mutations S239D A330L and I332E was detected. Another approach for obtaining antibodies with enhanced ADCC is to produce them with low fucose levels on their oligosaccharide at position 297. Previously it was found that fucose residues on the oligosaccharide interfere with Fc binding to Fc RIIIa Shinkawa Nakamura et al. 2003 . One way for obtaining antibodies with low fucose levels is to harness cells with such natural capabilities such as Rat hybridoma YB2 0 cells Shinkawa Nakamura et al. 2003 although recombinant proteins produced in these cells have variable levels of fucose content. Several other possibilities of non mammalian cells include avian cells from Vivalis engineered aquatic plant Lemna from Biolex Cox Sterling et al. 2006 and variant of the moss Physocmirtella patens from Igeneon Nechansky Schuster et al. 2007 . In addition GlycoFi generated various lines of cells with capabilities for several glycosylation solutions including enhanced ADCC Hamilton Davidson et al. 2006 . Also several mammalian cells are used for production of antibodies with various glycosylation solutions in general and enhanced ADCC in particular. Glycotope created various human glycoengineered cell lines to glyco optimize bio therapeutics glycosylation. Glycart acquired by Roche engineered a cell line producing recombinant antibodies with reduced fucose level by introducing beta 1 4 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase III GnTIII a glycosyltransferase catalyzing formation of bisected oligosaccharides that have been implicated in antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC Umana Jean Mairet et al. 1999 . Biowa generated a knockout in the fucosyl transference 8 Fut8 gene of CHO DG44 in order to diminish the fucose levels Yamane Ohnuki Kinoshita et al. 2004 .

A recent research demonstrated that heterologous expression of the prokaryotic enzyme GDP 6 deoxy D lyxo 4 hexylose reductase within the cytosol can block the conversion of the intermediate GDP 4 keto 6 deoxymannose into a dead end product that typically does not occur in vertebrate cells. Therefore CHO cells that were modified in this way secreted antibodies lacking core fucose von Horsten Ogorek et al. . Another approach was to create lectin resistant mutants that survive in the presence of toxic fucose specific lectin. LEC13 is a CHO based cell line that was developed by incubation of CHO cells in the presence of toxic pea fucose specific lectin Ripka and Stanley 1986 . LEC13 is deficient in GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase activity which results in expression of human IgG1 that are deficient of fucose Shields Lai et al. 2002 .

U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0081150 teaches mutation of CHO cells by treatment with chemicals and selecting cells which exhibit a variant glycosylation pattern including a decrease in fucosylation by killing cells with high fucose in order to generate cells useful for expressing antibodies.

U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0304436 teaches fucosylation reduced CHO cell lines by mutation in the Fx protein and controlling the availability of an external source of fucose in order to direct the ability of the cells to fucosylate polypeptides.

Kanda et al Kanda Imai Nishiya et al. 2007 discloses GMD and FUT8 knockout host cell lines. The GMD knockout cells have a genomic deletion corresponding to GMD exon 5 6 and 7 regions.

Ripka et al. Ripka and Stanley 1986 discloses four lectin resistant CHO mutant cells. The mutations were effected by incubation with N methyl N nitrosoguanidine.

Shields et al Shields Lai et al. 2002 discloses that IgG1 produced by the Lec13 fucose deficient CHO cell line increased binding to Fc RIIIA up to 50 fold and also increased ADCC.

Kanda et al. Kanda Yamane Ohnuki et al. 2006 discloses that Lec13 produces 50 70 fucosylated antibody however this known cell line could not stably produce antibody. Thus the Lec13 cell line is not suitable as a production cell line.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a method of selecting CHO cells useful as host cells for expressing recombinant proteins the method comprising 

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided an isolated CHO cell generated according to the method of the present invention.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided an isolated CHO cell being genetically modified to express a imitated GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD having an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NOs 23 and or 24.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a CHO cell line comprising the isolated cell of the present invention.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a cell culture which comprises the isolated CHO cell of the present invention and a cell culture medium being devoid of xeno contaminants.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a method for the production of a recombinant protein comprising transfecting the isolated CHO cell of the present invention with a polynucleotide comprising a nucleic acid sequence which encodes the recombinant protein culturing the transfected CHO cell under conditions suitable for expression of the recombinant protein and isolating the protein.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided an isolated CHO cell being genetically modified such that an amount of fucosylation of a protein expressed therein is linearly dependent on a concentration of external fucose.

According to some embodiments of the invention the fucose binding agent is non toxic to the mutated population of CHO cells.

According to some embodiments of the invention the fucose binding agent is attached to a detectable moiety or an affinity moiety.

According to some embodiments of the invention the introducing genetic mutations into the population of CHO cells is effected by contacting the cells with a mutagen that causes a mutation in GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase a gene of the fucose synthesis pathway.

According to some embodiments of the invention the amount of time during which the mutated cell population is contacted with a fucose binding agent is no longer than 60 minutes.

According to some embodiments of the invention when the fucose binding agent is attached to an affinity moiety the method further comprises contacting the mutated population of CHO cells with an additional agent such additional agent comprising a cognate binding moiety for the affinity moiety.

According to some embodiments of the invention the cognate binding moiety is attached to a detectable moiety.

According to some embodiments of the invention the detectable moiety comprises a fluorescent moiety or a magnetic moiety.

According to some embodiments of the invention the depleting is effected by at least three rounds of sequential depleting.

According to some embodiments of the invention the CHO cells are selected from CHO S CHO K1 DUXB11 CHO DG44 and Pro 5.

According to some embodiments of the invention the fucose binding agent is aleuria aurantia lectin AAL or 1 fucose specific lectin AOL .

According to some embodiments of the invention the isolated CHO cell expresses a wild type fucosyl transferase 8 Fut8 .

According to some embodiments of the invention the isolated CHO cell expresses a wild type GDP keo 6 deoxymannose 3 5 epimerase 4 reductase FX .

According to some embodiments of the invention the mutated GMD has an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NOs 23 and or 24.

According to some embodiments of the invention the isolated CHO cell expresses a mutated GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD .

According to some embodiments of the invention the isolated cells have a stable fucose phenotype for at least 370 population doublings.

According to some embodiments of the invention the isolated CHO cell expresses a recombinant protein of interest.

According to some embodiments of the invention the transfecting is effected in the presence of exogenous fucose.

According to some embodiments of the invention the method further comprises culturing the isolated CHO cell of the present invention in a culture medium comprising fucose following the transfecting.

According to some embodiments the isolated CHO cell is genetically modified to express a mutated GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD .

According to some embodiments at least one allele of the GMD carries at least one loss of function mutation.

According to some embodiments when the concentration of external fucose is zero the amount of fucosylation of the protein is zero.

According to some embodiments the isolated CHO cell has a 20 higher integral viable cell concentration IVCC than non mutated CHO cells.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and or scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the invention exemplary methods and or materials are described below. In case of conflict the patent specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be necessarily limiting.

The present invention in some embodiments thereof relates to zero fucose CHO cells and cell lines methods of generating same and uses thereof.

Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited in its application to the details set forth in the following description or exemplified by the Examples. The invention is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.

In order to reduce the fucosylation levels of recombinant proteins e.g. antibodies for obtaining enhanced ADCC the present inventors developed cell lines from CHO S cells which were modified to express variant glycosylation patterns on their cell surface. This was effected by incubation of cells in the presence of a MTX followed by an efficient selection of cells with the lowest fucose levels on the cells membrane.

The selection was performed either by isolation on magnetic beads and FACS sorting or by FACS sorting only using fucose specific lectins which have high affinity towards the Fuc1 6GlcNA residue present on the Fc glycosylation site of an antibody e.g. aleuria aurantia lectin AAL or 1 fucose specific lectin AOL .

Although the selection of the zero fucose expressing cells was performed according to the fucose levels on the cells membrane the same fucose levels were found on the recombinant antibody anti EGFR mAb expressed in these cells as analyzed by a variety of methods .

By incubating the cells in medium comprising fucose the present inventors showed that the level of fucosylation on the recombinant protein expressed therein is regulatable. This result was shown to be reproducible .

In addition the phenotype of the cells of the present invention was found to be stable for 370 PDLs tested . Thus such cells lend themselves as production cells for recombinant proteins where more than 100 PDLs are required.

The growth rate of the zero fucose expressing cells designated ITL LF2 cells was determined during the fucose stability test and was found to result in a population doubling time PDT of about 15 20 hours similar to CHO S from which the ITL LF2 was derived.

Analysis of the key proteins known to be involved in fucosylation revealed that the mRNA size of GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD in the selected cells of the present invention was shorter than in their wild type counterparts and the sequence revealed two splice variants. The mRNA molecules extracted from the cells lacked either the third and fourth or the eighth and ninth exons and .

The present inventors propose that the method disclosed herein for generating and identifying cell types of particular attributes may be exploited for selecting additional useful cell types.

Thus according to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of selecting CHO cells useful as host cells for expressing recombinant proteins the method comprising 

A Chinese hamster ovary tissue derived CHO cell or cell line suitable in accordance with the present invention is any cell which is a cell line established from an ovary tissue of Chinese hamster . Examples include CHO cells described in documents such as Journal of Experimental Medicine 108 945 1958 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 60 1275 1968 Genetics 55 513 1968 Chromosoma 41 129 1973 Methods in Cell Science 18 115 1996 Radiation Research 148 260 1997 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4216 1980 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 60 1275 1968 Cell 6 121 1975 Molecular Cell Genetics Appendix I II pp. 883 900 and the like. In addition CHO K1 ATCC CCL 61 DUXB11 ATCC CCL 9096 and Pro 5 ATCC CCL 1781 registered in ATCC The American Type Culture Collection as well as CHO S Life Technologies Cat 11619 or sub cell lines obtained by adapting the cell lines using various media can also be employed in the present invention.

As mentioned the method of an aspect of the present invention is effected by contacting a mutated population of CHO cells with a fucose binding agent so as to allow binding thereof to the cell membranes of the mutated cells.

As used herein the phrase fucose binding agent refers to any agent e.g. lectin that is capable of binding to fucose moieties on the cell surface with a Kd of at least 1 10. According to one embodiment the fucose binding agent binds to Fuc1 6GlcNA residues with a Kd of at least 1 10 Matsumura Higashida et al. 2009 e.g. a Kd of at least 1 10 a Kd of at least 1 10 a Kd of at least 1 10or a Kd of at least 1 10.

Exemplary lectins contemplated by the present invention include but are not limited to aleuria aurantia lectin AAL or 1 fucose specific lectin AOL and agglutinin UEA and those disclosed in Oda Senaha et al. 2003 Tateno Nakamura Tsuruta et al. 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As mentioned the contacting is effected under conditions that allow the binding of the fucose binding agents to the fucose on the cell membranes. According to one embodiment the binding is affected under conditions that do not allow the lectin to cause death to the cells i.e. cell depletion to which it binds.

According to a specific embodiment the binding is affected under conditions that do no allow the lectin to cause death to more than 50 of the cells to which it binds.

According to a specific embodiment the binding is affected under conditions that do no allow the lectin to cause death to more than 40 of the cells to which it binds.

According to a specific embodiment the binding is affected under conditions that do no allow the lectin to cause death to more than 30 of the cells to which it binds.

According to a specific embodiment the binding is affected under conditions that do no allow the lectin to cause death to more than 20 of the cells to which it binds.

According to one embodiment the binding is effected for no more than 3 hours preferably no more than 2 hours and even more preferably no more than one hour.

According to one embodiment the fucose binding agent of this aspect of the present invention is attached to a functional moiety that allows depletion either directly or indirectly of the cell population that is bound to the agent.

Thus the fucose binding agent may be attached to a detectable moiety including but not limited to a fluorescent moiety or a magnetic moiety.

Exemplary fluorescent moieties may include fluorescein or its derivatives such as fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC Oregon Green Tokyo Green SNAFL carboxynaphthofluorescein CFSE Carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester CFDA SE DyLight 488 Alexa Fluor 488 green fluorescent protein GFP phycoerythrin PE Peridinin Chlorophyll protein PerCP PE Alexa Fluor 700 PE Cy5 TRI COLOR PE Cy5.5 PE Alexa Fluor 750 PE Cy7 allophycocyanin APC APC Cy7 and derivatives thereof.

As used herein the term affinity moiety refers to a molecule capable of selective interaction with a cognate binding moiety such as for example biotin avidin ligand receptor and the like.

Detailed protocols for attaching fucose binding agents to affinity or detectable moieties may be found in the Examples section herein below.

It will be appreciated that if the fucose binding agent is attached to a fluorescent moiety either directly or indirectly through a cognate binding molecule the mutated cell population may be depleted of unwanted cells using known cell sorting procedures such as by using a fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS .

A multitude of flow cytometers are commercially available including for e.g. Becton Dickinson FACScan and FACScaliber BD Biosciences Mountain View Calif. . Antibodies that may be used for FACS analysis are taught in Schlossman S Boumell L et al Leucocyte Typing V. New York Oxford University Press 1995 and are widely commercially available.

If the fucose binding agent is attached to a magnetic moiety either directly or indirectly through a cognate binding molecule the mutated cell population may be depleted of unwanted cells by magnetic activated cell separation.

If the fucose binding agent is attached to an affinity moiety the mutated cell population may be depleted of unwanted cells by affinity purification with the cognate binding molecule. Thus for example if the fucose binding agent is attached to biotin the mutated cell population may be depleted of unwanted cells by purification with strepavidin beads or column. If for example the fucose binding agent is attached to an antibody or an Fc of an antibody the mutated cell population may be depleted of unwanted cells by purification with protein A beads or column.

As mentioned herein above the cognate binding molecule may itself be attached to a detectable moiety and the depletion may be effected following addition of the cognate binding molecule via FACS or MACS.

It will be appreciated that depletion of the unwanted cell populations may be effected in a number of rounds e.g. two three or more rounds of sequential depleting. Further the depletion steps may comprise a number of rounds of sequential depleting using the same method e.g. solely FACS based separation or may combine a number of different methods e.g. magnetic based separation followed by fluorescence based separation .

According to one embodiment the number of rounds of depletion and the specific method is selected such that cells which bind the fucose binding agent are substantially removed.

The term substantially removed is intended to mean removal of at least 50 or more of the particular cell type such as at least about 75 about 80 about 90 about 95 or about 97 including at least 99 99.5 99.9 or more of the particular cell type.

According to a particular embodiment cells which bind the fucose binding agent are substantially removed and only cells which have zero fucose on the cell membrane are retained.

If external fucose is added to the cells after the above removal various cells which have a certain amount of fucose content depending on the amount of fucose added can be obtained.

Thus according to another embodiment CHO cells which have less than 50 fucose on their cell membrane are obtained as compared with the wild type cells i.e. prior to methotrexate treatment .

According to another embodiment CHO cells which have less than 40 fucose on their cell membrane are obtained as compared with the wild type cells i.e. prior to methotrexate treatment .

According to another embodiment CHO cells which have less than 30 fucose on their cell membrane are obtained as compared with the wild type cells i.e. prior to methotrexate treatment .

According to another embodiment CHO cells which have less than 20 fucose on their cell membrane are obtained as compared with the wild type cells i.e. prior to methotrexate treatment .

According to another embodiment CHO cells which have less than 10 fucose on their cell membrane are obtained as compared with the wild type cells i.e. prior to methotrexate treatment .

Following isolation of the cell populations of the present invention they may be grown in cultures and in any apparatus that may be used to grow cultures including fermentors or bioreactors. They may be grown as monolayers or attached to a surface. Alternatively the isolated cell populations may be grown in suspension.

The cells can be grown in a culture medium that is serum free. The media can be a commercially available media such as but not limited to ProCHO5 Lonza Catalogue BE12 766Q CHO DHFR Medium powder SAFC Bioscinces Catalogue C6614 or Opti CHO Invitrogen Catalogue 12681 supplemented with glutamine such as 8 mM L glutamine.

According to one embodiment the medium is devoid of xeno contaminants i.e. free of animal derived components.

According to another embodiment the cells are grown in a cell culture under conditions e.g. medium and space that allows for indefinite proliferation i.e. a cell line.

The isolated CHO cells can maintain their variant glycosylation pattern i.e. low fucose expression for a high number of passages in culture i.e. have high stability. It was found according to one embodiment that the modified CHO host cell can maintain its variant glycosylation pattern even after 370 passages.

The present inventors have found that CHO cells selected according to the methods described herein have a particular phenotype e.g. expression of a mutated GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD which is responsible for the low fucosylation of their cell membrane.

The cells following mutagenesis may comprise at least one allele of GMD having a loss of function mutation.

The term allele as used herein refers to any of one or more alternative forms of a gene locus all of which alleles relate to a trait or characteristic. In a diploid cell or organism the two alleles of a given gene occupy corresponding loci on a pair of homologous chromosomes.

A loss of function mutation is a mutation in the sequence of a gene which causes the function of the gene product usually a protein to be either reduced or completely absent. A loss of function mutation can for instance be caused by the truncation of the gene product because of a frameshift or nonsense mutation. A phenotype associated with an allele with a loss of function mutation is usually recessive but can also be dominant.

It will be appreciated that the present invention also contemplates cells wherein both alleles of GMD carry a loss of function mutation. In such instances the GMD may be in a homozygous form or in a heterozygous form. According to this embodiment homozygosity is a condition where both alleles at the GMD locus are characterized by the same nucleotide sequence. Heterozygosity refers to different conditions of the gene at the GMD locus.

Specifically the present inventors have found that CHO cells following mutagenesis and the selection procedure of the present invention may express two variant forms of GMD as set forth in SEQ ID NOs 23 and 24 which correspond to deletions of exons 3 and 4 and 8 and 9 of the GMD gene respectively.

Thus according to another aspect of the present invention there is provided an isolated CHO cell being genetically modified to express a mutated GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD having an amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NOs 23 and or 24.

It was found that the cells of this aspect of the present invention express a functioning fucosyl transferase 8 Fut8 . The functioning Fut8 may be a wild type Fut8 having a polypeptide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 29.

In addition the cells of the present invention express a functioning GDP keo 6 deoxymannose 3 5 epimerase 4 reductase FX . The functioning FX may be a wild type FX having a polypeptide sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 30.

The present inventors have shown that the CHO cells which have been generated according to the methods described herein can be used to produce glycoproteins e.g. antibodies or Fc fusion proteins that can be harvested or collected. The glycoproteins may be secreted exhibit a variant fucosylation pattern and or have a therapeutic use as further described herein. Such glycoproteins may be e.g. antibodies such as an antibody with increased ADCC activity as compared to a corresponding antibody produced in an unmodified parental host cell as further described herein.

 Antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC as used herein refers to a cell mediated reaction in which effector cells that express FcRs e.g. Natural Killer NK cells neutrophils and macrophages recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell. The primary cells for mediating ADCC comprise NK cells monocytes and macrophages. NK cells typically express Fc.gamma.RIII predominantly whereas monocytes express Fc. gamma.RI Fc.gamma.RII and Fc. gamma.RIII. FcR expression on hematopoietic cells is summarized in Ravetch and Kinet Annu. Rev. Immunol 9 457 92 1991 .

 Effector cells are leukocytes which express one or more FcRs and perform effector function s . Preferably the cells express at least Fc .gamma.RIII and perform ADCC effector function. Examples of human leukocytes which mediate ADCC include peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC natural killer NK cells monocytes cytotoxic T cells and neutrophils with PBMCs and NK cells being preferred. The effector cells may be isolated from a native source thereof e.g. from blood or PBMCs as described herein or may propagate in vitro using known methods in the art.

In one embodiment an antibody produced from a CHO cell line of the present invention mediates antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC in the presence of human effector cells more effectively than a corresponding antibody produced by parental host cells when the subject antibodies are applied in comparable amounts. Generally ADCC activity can be ascertained using assays disclosed herein but other assays or methods for determining ADCC activity e.g. in an animal model etc are contemplated. The antibody obtained from the CHO cell line of the present invention iseffective at mediating ADCC than the parent antibody e.g. in in vivo or in vitro assay systems as further described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010 0081150 incorporated herein by reference.

Accordingly the isolated cell populations or cell lines of the present disclosure previously modified to yield variant fucosylation patterns may be further modified so as to comprise a heterologous polynucleotide sequence. Such sequences may comprise a coding or non coding region of a gene or gene fragment messenger RNA mRNA transfer RNA ribosomal RNA ribozymes etc. The heterologous sequences may encode a proteinaceous moiety which refers to proteins polypeptides peptides amino acid sequences which encompasses polymers of amino acids of any length. The heterologous polynucleotide sequences are typically operatively linked to promoters i.e. into expression vectors to enable expression of the recombinant polypeptide.

According to one embodiment transfection of the CHO cells of the present invention is effected in the presence of exogenous fucose. Contemplated concentrations of fucose include 1 20 g ml e.g. 10 g ml.

As illustrated in the amount of fucosylation of the recombinant polypeptide may be controlled by incubating the transfected cells in fucose. Contemplated concentrations of fucose include 1 10 g ml such as 2.5 5 g ml e.g. 3.5 g ml.

Thus there is provided a population of CHO cells which are not fucosylated on their cell membrane and are capable of expressing proteins of varying degrees of fucosylation the amount of fucosylation being dependent on the amount of fucose in the culture medium at the time of and following transfection. The amount of fucosylation of the recombinant polypeptide may range from zero to 100 .

Other than containing the necessary elements for the transcription and translation of the inserted coding sequence expression construct employed can also include sequences engineered to enhance stability production purification yield or toxicity of the expressed peptide. For example the expression of a fusion protein or a cleavable fusion protein comprising the protein of some embodiments of the invention and a heterologous protein can be engineered. Such a fusion protein can be designed so that the fusion protein can be readily isolated by affinity chromatography e.g. by immobilization on a column specific for the heterologous protein. Where a cleavage site is engineered between the protein and the cleavable fusion protein the cleavable fusion protein can be released from the chromatographic column by treatment with an appropriate enzyme or agent that disrupts the cleavage site e.g. see Booth et al. 1988 Immunol. Lett. 19 65 70 and Gardella et al. 1990 J. Biol. Chem. 265 15854 15859 .

Preparation of nucleic acids can be carried out by a variety of routine recombinant techniques and synthetic procedures. Standard recombinant DNA and molecular cloning techniques are well known in the art and are described by Sam brook J. Fritsch E. F. and Maniatis T. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor 1989 Maniatis and by T. J. Silhavy M. L. Berman and L. W. Enquist Experiments with Gene Fusions Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1984 and by Ausubel F. M. et al Current Protocols in Molecular Biology pub. by Greene Publishing Assoc. and Wiley Interscience 1987 . Briefly the subject nucleic acids can be prepared genomic DNA fragments cDNAs and RNAs all of which can be extracted directly from a cell or recombinantly produced by various amplification processes including but not limited to PCR and rt PCR.

As mentioned the CHO cells of the present invention may be used as host cells for the production of antibodies. The antibodies may be monoclonal or polyclonal.

In some embodiments the antibody is an inhibitory antibody. Inhibitory antibody may inhibit one or more biological activities of the antigen to which the antibody binds. For example an inhibitory antibody can downregulate signal transduction of the corresponding antigen by inhibiting the activity of the antigen or inhibit expression of the antigen. In some embodiments the antibody is a neutralizing antibody. A neutralizing antibody reduces or abolishes some biological activity of a soluble antigen or of a living microorganism such as an infectious agent. Neutralizing antibodies may compete with the natural ligand or receptor for its antigen. In some embodiments the antibody is a stimulatory or activating antibody. A stimulatory or activating antibody may be an agonist antibody which may activate signal transduction of the corresponding antigen upon binding of the antigen thereby activating or upregulating the activity of the antigen or upregulate the expression of the antigen to which the antibody binds.

The term antibody as used in this invention includes intact molecules as well as functional fragments thereof such as Fc fusion proteins defined as follows genetically engineered molecules containing the constant region of the heavy chainwhich is linked directly or via a suitable polypeptide linker to another polypeptide or protein.

Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are chimeric molecules of immunoglobulins immunoglobulin chains or fragments which contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. Humanized antibodies include human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues form a complementary determining region CDR of the recipient are replaced by residues from a CDR of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat or rabbit having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances Fv framework residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Humanized antibodies may also comprise residues which are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported CDR or framework sequences. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus sequence. The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin Jones et al. Nature 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. Nature 332 323 329 1988 and Presta Curr. Op. Struct. Biol. 2 593 596 1992 .

In one embodiment the light and heavy chains may be transformed into separate modified host cell cultures either of the same or of differing species. In an alternative embodiment separate plasmids for light and heavy chain may be used to co transform a single modified host cell culture. In another embodiment a single expression plasmid containing both genes and capable of expressing the genes for both light and heavy chain may be transformed into a single modified host cell culture.

When heavy and light chains are coexpressed in the same host the isolation procedure is designed so as to recover reconstituted antibody. This can be accomplished by conventional antibody purification procedures such as for example protein A Sepharose hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis or affinity chromatography.

The recombinant antibodies which can be produced in the cells of the present invention have a variant fucosylation pattern so as to increase the effector function of the antibody. Preferably the recombinant antibodies of the present invention have low fucose levels on the Fc monomer which is the ADCC relevant fucose residue thereby increasing the antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC activity of an antibody.

The antibody with variant fucosylation patterns and or produced by modified CHO host cells of the present disclosure may bind an antigen such as a cancer antigen. The cancer antigen may be selected from the group consisting of HER2 Immunoglobulin epsilon Fc receptor II Alk 1 CD20 EGF receptor VEGF receptor FGF receptor NGF receptor PDGF receptor EpCam CD3 CD4 CD11a CD19 CD22 CD30 CD33 CD38 CD40 CD51 CD55 CD80 CD95 CCR2 CCR3 CCR4 CCR5 CTLA 4 Mucin 1 Mucin 16 Endoglin Mesothelin receptor Nogo receptor folate receptor CXCR4 insulin like growth factor receptor Ganglioside GD3 and alpha and beta integrins.

Exemplary antibodies produced in the cells of the present invention include but are not limited to adalimumab Humira alemtuzumab Campath basiliximab Simulect bevacizumab Avastin cetuximab Erbitux daclizumab Zenapax dacetuzumab efalizumab Raptiva epratuzumab ibritumomab Zevalin tiuxetan infliximab Remicade muromonab CD3 OKT3 omalizumab Xolair palivizumab Synagis oregovomab OvaRex rituximab Rituxan trastuzumab Herceptin ocrelizumab pertuzumab hu M195Mab anti Abeta anti CD4 anti oxLDL trastuzumab DM1 apomab rhuMAb GA101 anti OX40L ipilimumab ustekinumab golimumab ofatumumab zalutumumab motavizumab ecromeximab MDX010 4B5 TNX 901 IDEC 114 and any Fc antibody fragments specific for antigens and capable of inducing ADCC.

The terms comprises comprising includes including having and their conjugates mean including but not limited to .

Throughout this application various embodiments of this invention may be presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly the description of a range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as well as individual numerical values within that range. For example description of a range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed subranges such as from 1 to 3 from 1 to 4 from 1 to 5 from 2 to 4 from 2 to 6 from 3 to 6 etc. as well as individual numbers within that range.

Whenever a numerical range is indicated herein it is meant to include any cited numeral fractional or integral within the indicated range. The phrases ranging ranges between a first indicate number and a second indicate number and ranging ranges from a first indicate number to a second indicate number are used herein interchangeably and are meant to include the first and second indicated numbers and all the fractional and integral numerals therebetween.

As used herein the term method refers to manners means techniques and procedures for accomplishing a given task including but not limited to those manners means techniques and procedures either known to or readily developed from known manners means techniques and procedures by practitioners of the chemical pharmacological biological biochemical and medical arts.

It is appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination or as suitable in any other described embodiment of the invention. Certain features described in the context of various embodiments are not to be considered essential features of those embodiments unless the embodiment is inoperative without those elements.

Various embodiments and aspects of the present invention as delineated hereinabove and as claimed in the claims section below find experimental support in the following examples.

Reference is now made to the following examples which together with the above descriptions illustrate some embodiments of the invention in a non limiting fashion.

Generally the nomenclature used herein and the laboratory procedures utilized in the present invention include molecular biochemical microbiological and recombinant DNA techniques. Such techniques are thoroughly explained in the literature. See for example Molecular Cloning A laboratory Manual Sambrook et al. 1989 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Volumes I III Ausubel R. M. ed. 1994 Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley and Sons Baltimore Md. 1989 Perbal A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning John Wiley Sons New York 1988 Watson et al. Recombinant DNA Scientific American Books New York Birren et al. eds Genome Analysis A Laboratory Manual Series Vols. 1 4 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press New York 1998 methodologies as set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 666 828 4 683 202 4 801 531 5 192 659 and 5 272 057 Cell Biology A Laboratory Handbook Volumes I III Cellis J. E. ed. 1994 Culture of Animal Cells A Manual of Basic Technique by Freshney Wiley Liss N.Y. 1994 Third Edition Current Protocols in Immunology Volumes I III Coligan J. E. ed. 1994 Stites et al. eds Basic and Clinical Immunology 8th Edition Appleton Lange Norwalk Conn. 1994 Mishell and Shiigi eds Selected Methods in Cellular Immunology W. H. Freeman and Co. New York 1980 available immunoassays are extensively described in the patent and scientific literature see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 791 932 3 839 153 3 850 752 3 850 578 3 853 987 3 867 517 3 879 262 3 901 654 3 935 074 3 984 533 3 996 345 4 034 074 4 098 876 4 879 219 5 011 771 and 5 281 521 Oligonucleotide Synthesis Gait M. J. ed. 1984 Nucleic Acid Hybridization Hames B. D. and Higgins S. J. eds. 1985 Transcription and Translation Hames B. D. and Higgins S. J. eds. 1984 Animal Cell Culture Freshney R. I. ed. 1986 Immobilized Cells and Enzymes IRL Press 1986 A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning Perbal B. 1984 and Methods in Enzymology Vol. 1 317 Academic Press PCR Protocols A Guide To Methods And Applications Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 Marshak et al. Strategies for Protein Purification and Characterization A Laboratory Course Manual CSHL Press 1996 all of which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Other general references are provided throughout this document. The procedures therein are believed to be well known in the art and are provided for the convenience of the reader. All the information contained therein is incorporated herein by reference.

Antibodies for ELISA Capture Goat anti human IgG H L Jackson Immuno Research Cat. 109 005 088 USA . Detection Goat anti human IgG Fc Fab Jackson Immuno Research Cat. 109 036 098 USA 

ELISA capture coating solution Goat anti human IgG H L was diluted 1 900 to final concentration of 2 mcg ml in 0.1 M Carbonate Buffer pH 9.6 

ELISA standard curve samples The reference sample Erbitux EMD Lot 7820907 5.0 mg ml was diluted with assay buffer to 100 ng ml followed by two fold serial dilution up to 1.56 ng ml. Each standard point concentration was prepared a final volume at least of 1 ml 

Formulation buffer Sodium chloride 11.7 gr 100 mM Citric acid 4.2 gr 10 mM Glycin 15 gr 100 mM Sodium hydroxide to pH 5.8 and were completed the volume to 2 liter with WFI 

iCE 280 running stock solution 70 mcl of 1 methyl cellulose 1 mcl of 6.14 and 9.5 pI marker 8 mel of pharmalytes pH 3 10 add 100 ml WFI 

Papain cleavage buffer 0.1M Tris HCl 4 mM EDTA 5 mM Cystein pH7.6. Cystein should be prepared fresh every time. Dilute Papain to 1 mg ml with the buffer according to manufacture instructions 

PBS buffered phosphate saline 10 mM sodium phosphate 150 mM sodium chloride pH 7.2 prepared by 1 10 dilution of 10 PBS 

FEME medium DMEM F 12 1 1 Invitrogen Cat. 32 500 043 supplemented with 8 ml L ITS X Invitrogen Cat. 51500 056 

Disposable 0.2 filter for ACFM sterilization GP express plus membrane Millipore Cat. SCGPU05RE or SCGPU11RE 

Erlenmeyer flasks 125 ml Corning Cat. WI 431143 250 ml Corning Cat. WI 431144 500 ml Corning Cat. WI 431145 2 L Corning Cat. WI 431255 

Optical 96 Well Fast Thermal Cycling Plate with barcode 20 Pkg Applied Biosystems Cat 4346906Pipet tips Sorenson Cat. 1114200 and 14220 

SnakeSkin Dialysis tubing 10 kDa cat 68100 Lot JJ127549 Thermo HiTrap MabSelect Xtra 1 ml Cat 28 4082 58 GE 

Sterile centrifuge tubes 15 ml Becton Dickinson Falcon Cat. 2097 and Corning Cat. 430055 50 ml Corning Cat. 430290 250 ml Corning Cat. 430776 500 ml Corning Cat. 431123 

Sterile pipettes 10 ml Sterillin Cat. 47110 1 ml Sterillin Cat. 40105 2 ml Sterillin Cat. 40102 5 ml Corning Cat. 4011 50 ml Corning Cat. 4501 25 ml Falcon Cat. 35 7525 

CHO S cells in C6614 were seeded at 0.2 10cells ml in 100 nM MTX and propagated for ten days until viability exceeded 90 . Then the cells were transferred to 200 nM MTX for 27 days and subsequently the cells were frozen in the presence of 200 nM MTX. For isolation of zero fucose expressing cells the cells were thawed in medium that did not contain MTX.

MTX treated CHO S cells were labeled with biotinylated AAL or AOL and mixed with streptavidin linked to magnetic beads. The cells were separated with a magnet and cells in suspension which did not attach to the magnet i.e. had low fucose level on their surface were further propagated. This procedure was performed twice and then the cells were sorted by FACS.

50 10MTX treated CHO S cells were collected and washed in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid Pluronic F 68 Sigma Cat. P5556 . Then cells were resuspended in 5 ml of biotinylated AAL Vector cat. B 1395 Lot U0922 at a concentration of 20 g ml or with AOL Cat. L0169 EY at a concentration of 5 g ml in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid for 30 min at RT. The stained cells were washed with PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid prior to addition of 250 l BD IMag SA Particles Plus DM BD Cat. 557812 and incubation of another 30 min at RT. Then 2.25 ml of PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid 0.5 BSA were added. The beads were divided into three 5 ml tubes. The tubes were placed on BD IMagmet BD Cat. 552311 and left for 8 minutes. The supernatant was aspirated and transferred to a new 15 ml tube. This step was done twice and the aspirated supernatant was combined. The supernatant was divided again into 5 ml tubes and placed on the BD IMagmet BD Cat. 552311 for 8 minutes. The supernatant was collected centrifuged and seeded in C6614 medium CHO DHFR Medium powder SAFC Bioscinces Cat. C6614 ITL preparation R0461V01 . The cells were propagated and then another round of separation with the beads was performed.

Following incubation with the lectin the cells viability was 83 when incubated with AAL and 89 when incubated with AOL. Typical viability of cells following incubation with PBS is 85 95 .

Cells after two rounds of separation with magnetic beads were subjected to FACS sorting for cells having low fucose levels on their cell surface. 40 10cells were washed in cold PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid centrifuged resuspended in 10 ml biotinylated AAL or AOL SA PE mixture 20 g ml and transferred to a T80 flask for incubation of 30 minutes with shaking at 45 rpm at 37 C. The cells were centrifuged washed in cold PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid centrifuged twice and resuspended in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid to a final concentration of 10 10cells ml. The lowest fluorescent fraction of the population 1.5 were sorted by FACS into 2 ml of Sigma C6614 SFM HT Biological Industries Cat. 03 085 1C tube centrifuged resuspended in 1.5 ml of Sigma C6614 SFM HT tube and seeded into a well in a 6 well plate and propagated.

100 10cells were washed in cold PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid centrifuged resuspended in 10 ml biotinylated AAL 20 g ml SA PE 1 100 mixture in PBS 0.1 pluronic acid and transferred to T80 flask for incubation of 30 minutes with shaking at 45 rpm 37 C. The cells were centrifuged washed in cold PBS 0.1 pluronic acid centrifuged twice and resuspended in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid to obtain cell concentration of 10 10 ml and filtered into FACS tubes. Following incubation with the AAL the cells viability was 81 . Typical viability of cells following incubation with PBS is 85 95 . The lowest fluorescent fraction 0.2 in the first sort 0.07 in the second 1 in the third and 2 of the fourth of the population were sorted by FACS into 2 ml of Sigma ProCHO5 SFM HT tube centrifuged resuspended in 1 ml in the first and second sorts 3 ml in the third and fourth sorts of ProCHO5 HT tube seeded into a well in a 24 well plate in the first and second sorts T25 flask in the third and fourth sorts and propagated.

2 10cells were washed in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid centrifuged resuspended in 500 l biotinylated AAL Cat. B1395 Vector diluted to 20 g ml or AOL Cat. L0169 EY diluted to 5 g ml SA PE Cat. 40250 Biolegend diluted to 2 g ml mixture in PBS 0.1 pluronic acid and transferred to 24 well plates for incubation of 30 minutes with shaking at 37 C. The cells were resuspended thoroughly and transferred to 15 ml tubes. 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid were added and the cells were mixed centrifuged and washed again. The pellet was resuspended in 0.5 ml of PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid tube and filtered into FACS tubes for analysis according to the fluorescence of the cells.

2 10cells were washed twice in PBS 0.1 Pluronic acid centrifuged re suspended in 500 l MAA FITC diluted to 50 g ml in PBS 0.1 pluronic acid and transferred to 24 well plates for incubation of 30 minutes with shaking at 25 C. The cells were re suspended thoroughly and transferred to 15 ml tubes. 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid were added and the cells were mixed centrifuged and washed again. The pellet was re suspended in 0.5 ml of PBS 0.1 pluronic acid tube and filtered into FACS tube for analysis according to the fluorescence of the cells.

ITL LF2 cells either before or after transfection with anti EGFR mAb were seeded in ProCHO5 medium at a concentration of 0.2 10cells ml with different concentrations of L fucose Sigma Cat. F2252 and incubated at 37 C. on a shaker at 320 rpm with CO. After 4 days cell samples were taken for FACS analysis according to the fluorescence of the cells as described herein below . In addition crude harvest samples from anti EGFR mAb transfected cells were analayzed by FACS.

Cell cultures for cell freezing were expanded in Erlenmeyers. The required amount of cells was centrifuged and resuspended in cryopreservation medium composed of 92.5 of a 1 1 mixture of fresh ProCHO5 medium HT and conditioned medium from exponentially growing ITL LF2 host cells and 7.5 DMSO. Sixty vials were frozen from each clone in each Pre Master Cell Bank pre MCB 10 10cells per vial in 1.5 ml per vial. Cells were frozen at 80 C. in Cryo Freezing 1 C. container NALGENE Cat. No. 5100 0001 and 24 hours later transferred to storage in liquid nitrogen vapor.

Viability of cells in frozen ampoule in the pre MCB of ITL LF2 cells was tested 11 days after pre MCB preparation. One ampoule was thawed and viability was determined immediately after thawing. Cells were propagated along three growth cycles and viability was determined after the third cycle.

Sterility testing was performed by the direct transfer or immersion technique. Cells were also tested for

Cloning by the Automated Cell Deposition Unit ACDU device of the FACSAria cell sorter of cells growing in ProCHO5 HT was performed by the ACDU in the Single Cell precision mode into 96 well plates containing 200 l well of 80 C6366 20 ProCHO5 ACFM mixture. Cells concentration was 0.4 10cells ml. Plates were photographed by Cellavista at the day of cloning day 0 and then eighth days later. Several clones were picked propagated and then transferred to T25 flasks containing 4 ml of 50 Sigma C6366 and 50 ProCHO5 mixture. ProCHO5 was added gradually during cell propagation. These cells were analyzed for mRNA characterization.

Total RNA was isolated from cells with Rneasy kit Qiagen Cat. 74104 according to manufacturer instructions.

cDNA was prepared from total RNA extracted from CHO S or ITL LF2 cells utilizing Invitrogen SuperScript III Kit Cat. 18080 051 and the Oligo dT primers provided in the kit. PCR was then preformed using gene specific primers. Primers were synthesized at Sigma Aldrich. Sequences of primers are detailed in Table 1 herein below. The resulting bands were analyzed on agarose gels and compared to DNA size markers.

cDNA was prepared utilizing the Applied Biosystems high capacity cDNA reverse transcriptase Kit and random primers supplied in the kit Applied Biosystems Cat. 4368814 .

Gene specific primers and TaqMan MGB probes were synthesized at Applied Biosystems. Sequences of primers and probes are detailed in Table 2 herein below.

For each reaction 5 l of prepared cDNA was added to a mix containing TaqMan gene expression master mix forward and reverse primers TaqMan MGB probe in a final volume of 13 l.

Q PCR was run on the StepOnePlus Real Time PCR machine in the fast mode and results analyzed utilizing the StepOnePlus and DataAssist v2.0 softwares.

DNA sequencing was performed by the fully automated 16 Capillary ABI Prism 3100 Genetic Analyzer. The sequences were analyzed in house utilizing the Sci Ed General software Clone manager software version 7.01 and Align plus 5 version 5.01 .

Plasmid DNA was isolated using QIAGEN Hispeed plasmid Maxi Kit according to the procedure described by the manufacturer. For stable transfections DNA was linearized by specific restriction enzymes and sterilized by DNA precipitation in ethanol. Transient transfections were performed with circular DNA.

ITL LF2 cells were adapted to C6614 serum free medium CHO DHFR Medium powder SAFC Biosciences Cat. C6614 . Cells were grown in suspension in 50 ml tubes Filter tubes 50 TPP Cat 87050 37 C. humidified and shaken at 320 RPM. Two days prior to transfection 100 ml of the cells were seeded at a concentration of 0.5 10cells ml in a 500 ml Erlenmeyer Corning Cat. WI 431145 . The cells were transfected with PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem 872 vector containing the anti EGFR mAb coding sequence by LipofectAmine GibcoBRL Cat. 18324 020 . On the day of transfection the cells in replicates were washed resuspended and 10 10cells were seeded in 4 ml MEM Sigma Cat. M2279 per T 25 flask Nuns Cat. 163371 . For each transfection with single plasmid 20 g linearized PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem 872 vector were used. The final DNA volume was adjusted to 100 l in MEM. Subsequently 100 l LipofectAmine were added and incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature. The DNA LipofectAmine mix was then added to the cells and incubated for 4 hours at 37 C. 5 COin a shaking incubator at 50 RPM. At the end of this incubation period the cells were spun down and medium was replaced with 8 ml fresh 50 C6614 Sigma and 50 C6366 Sigma supplemented with 13.6 mg L Hypoxanthine 3.9 mg L thymidine HT Biological Industries Cat. 03 085 1C and 10 g ml fucose Sigma Cat. F2252 .

The flasks were incubated at 37 C. in a shaking incubator at 50 RPM for 72 hours. Then the cells were collected centrifuged and resuspended in 10 ml 50 C6614 50 C6366 media supplemented with 10 mg ml fucose and 5 10 g ml Puromycin for the different replicates and returned to the original T 25 flask. Under these selective conditions only cells expressing the PAC gene could survive. Following replicate pool recovery C6614 medium 10 g ml fucose was added gradually. When pools recovered completely the cells were seeded in fresh C6614 medium without fucose. Then cells were transferred to ProCHO5 medium and fucosylation level on the cells membrane was detected as described herein below.

CHO S cells were cultured in ProCHO5 serum free medium Lonza Cat. BE12 766Q supplemented with Hypoxanthine 13.61 mg L and Thymidine 3.88 mg L HT 1 Biological Industries Cat. 03 085 1B . Cells were grown in suspension in filter tubes 50 ml Bioreactor TPP Cat 87050 37 C. humidified and shaken at 320 RPM. Two days prior to transfection the cells were seeded at a concentration of 0.2 10cells ml in 500 ml shake flask Erlenmeyers with filter cap Corning Cat. 431145 . On the day of transfection the cells were centrifuged and 10 10cells were seeded in 4 ml MEM Sigma Cat. M2279 in T25 flasks Nunc Cat. 163371 . For each transfection with single plasmid 20 g linearized vector PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem 872 were used. The final DNA volume was adjusted to 100 l in MEM. Subsequently 100 l LipofectAmine GibcoBRL Cat. 18324 020 were added and incubated for 45 minutes at room temperature. The DNA LipofectAmine mix was then added to the cells and incubated for 4 hours at 37 C. 5 COin a shaking incubator at 50 RPM. At the end of this incubation period the cells were spun down and medium was replaced with 8 ml fresh ProCHO5 Lonza Cat BE12 766Q supplemented with dextrane sulfate 0.1 mg ml Hypoxanthine 27.22 mg L and Thymidine 7.76 mg L HT 2 Biological Industries Cat. 03 085 1B in Erlenmeyer 125 ml with filter cap Corning Cat. 431143 . The flask was incubated at 37 C. in a shaking incubator at 125 RPM for 72 hours. Then the cells were collected centrifuged and resuspended in 20 ml ProCHO5 medium supplemented with 25 g ml puromycin Invivogen Cat. ant pr 1 under these selective conditions only cells expressing the PAC gene could survive.

Two days prior to transfection cells propagated in ProCHO5 were seeded at a concentration of 0.5 10cells ml in 250 ml in a 1000 ml Erlenmeyer TRIFOREST Cat. TF FPC1000S in order to reach the approximate density of 2.5 3.0 10cells ml after 2 days.

On transfection day 37.5 g DNA 18.75 g each of the HC LC plasmids were diluted in 2.5 ml FEME medium DMEM F 12 1 1 Invitrogen Cat. 32 500 043 29 mM NaHCO3 10 mM HEPES 5 g l D Glucose and 7.5 mM L Glutamine in 15 ml tube Corning Cat. 430052 Er125 flask was filled with 10 ml initial volume of FEME medium DMEM F 12 1 1 Invitrogen Cat. 32 500 043 supplemented with 8 ml L ITS X Invitrogen Cat. 51500 056 187.5 g PEI stock Polysciences inc. Cat. 23966 were added to the DNA FEME medium DNA PEI 1 5 the reagents were mixed on vortex for 10 seconds and incubated for 10 seconds at room temperature. 60 10live cells were centrifuged in 50 ml tubes. The pellet was re suspended gently with the transfection mixture and transferred into the 125 ml Erlenmeyer following by incubation for 180 minutes in COshaking incubator at 37 C. in 160 pm. 12.5 ml of ProCHO5 medium were added to reach final concentration of 2.4 10cells ml in 25 ml culture.

Twenty four hours post transfection CHO S transfected cells were supplemented with 100 l final concentration 0.5 mM of valproic acid VPA sodium salt stock 100 nM Sigma Cat. P4543 and 2 ml of 3.5 Cell boost HyClone Cat SH30866.01 . ITL LF2 cells were supplemented with 100 l final concentration 0.5 mM of valproic acid VPA sodium salt stock 100 nM Sigma Cat. P4543 and the incubation temperature was reduced to 31 C.

After 6 days of incubation a sample of cell suspension was taken for cell count and viability. Following centrifugation the supernatant was taken for evaluation of transient expression in ELISA test.

Cells at a concentration of 0.5 2 10were seeded in 200 600 ml ProCHO5 containing dextrane sulphate in 1 or 2 L Erlenmeyer flasks and cultured for 4 days at 37 C. on a shaker incubator at 320 rpm. The harvest was centrifuged and filtered through 0.22 m filter. A protease inhibitor cocktail Sigma Cat. P8340 was subsequently added 1 ml for 1 L of culture . The harvest was kept frozen at 80 C. until the beginning of purification process.

Protein G magnetic beads Cat. S1430S Biolabs were thoroughly re suspended and 25 l were transferred into 2 ml tubes at room temperature. The tube was placed on a magnet for 1 minute and the supernatant was aspirated. 0.5 ml of 20 mM phosphate buffer was added in order to re suspend the Protein G beads. This washing step was repeated once more.

100 l of sample antibody 25 37 g ml either crude harvest or purified protein were added to the magnetic beads containing tubes. The mixture was incubated for 30 min at 37 C. and placed on the magnet in order to discard the supernatant. The beads were washed two times with 0.5 ml of 20 mM phosphate buffer and the buffer was aspirated on the magnet. The beads bound to the sample antibodies were resuspended in 0.5 ml of biotinylated AAL SA PE mixture biotinylated AAL Vector Cat. B1395 20 g ml and SA PE. BioLegend Cat. 40520 0.2 mg ml diluted to 2 g ml in PBS 0.1 pluronic acid and transferred into 24 well plates Nunc Cat. 142475 covered with aluminum foil and incubated 30 min shaking at 80 rpm 37 C. The mixture was resuspended thoroughly and transferred to 15 ml tubes Corning Cat. 430052 with 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid. Then two rounds of washing were performed by addition of 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid centrifugation and removal of the supernatant. The pellet was resuspended in 0.5 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid filtered through a FACS tube Falcon Cat. 352235 and analyzed by FACS.

Protein G magnetic beads Cat. S1430S Biolabs were thoroughly re suspended and 25 l were transferred into 2 ml tubes at room temperature. The tube was placed on a magnet for 1 minute and the supernatant was aspirated. 0.5 ml of 20 mM phosphate buffer was added in order to re suspend the Protein G beads. This washing step was repeated once more.

100 l of sample antibody 25 g ml either crude harvest or purified protein were added to the magnetic beads containing tubes. The mixture was incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature and placed on the magnet in order to discard the supernatant. The beads were washed two times with 0.5 ml of 20 mM phosphate buffer and the buffer was aspirated on the magnet. The beads bound to the sample antibodies were resuspended in 0.5 ml of MAA FITC 2 mg in 2 ml EY Cat. F 7801 1 diluted to 25 g ml in PBS 0.1 pluronic acid and transferred into 24 well plates Nunc Cat. 142475 covered with aluminum foil and incubated 30 minutes whilst shaking at 80 rpm at room temperature. The mixture was resuspended thoroughly and transferred to 15 ml tubes Corning Cat. 430052 with 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid. Then two rounds of washing were performed by addition of 10 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid centrifugation and removal of the supernatant. The pellet was resuspended in 0.5 ml PBS 0.1 pluronic acid filtered through a FACS tube Falcon Cat. 352235 and analyzed by FACS.

ELISA assay was used to determine the concentration of human antibody in the test samples. The assay was performed as described below.

Microtiter plates were coated with 2 g ml of goat anti human IgG H L in 0.1 M Carbonate Buffer pH 9.6 and incubated overnight at 4 C. The plates were washed four times with washing buffer 0.05 Tween 20 in PBS . The plates were then blocked with blocking buffer 1 BSA in PBS T 0.05 200 l well for 1 hour at RT. After blocking the plates were washed four times with washing buffer 0.05 Tween 20 in PBS . Coated plates were used immediately after preparation or stored at 20 C. until used within 6 weeks . The samples standard curve and check samples were added to the plates 100 l well and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hr. Plates were washed again four times with wash buffer and 100 l aliquots of the HRP conjugated goat anti human IgG Fab diluted to 8 ng ml in assay buffer 1 skim milk powder in PBS and incubated at 37 C. for 1 hour. Plates were washed again four times with wash buffer and 100 l of substrate solution TMB were added and incubated for approximately 10 minutes at RT. The reaction was stopped by adding 100 l 1N HCl to each well. The absorbance was measured at Anm in an ELISA reader. Standard solutions were prepared by serial dilutions of the reference sample anti EGFR ERBITUX from MerckSerono to give a standard curve range from 100 to 1.56 ng ml in assay buffer. A sample of crude product from pool 2390 produced at ITL was used as a check sample. The Magelan 5 software calculated the optical data results. The four parameter logistic equation was used and the results of the unknown samples were automatically interpolated from the standard curve expressed in ng ml. Dilution of samples preparation of standard curve distribution of samples on the plate was performed by a Robotic sample processor.

The anti EGFR products produced from pools 2390 and 2622UN were purified on Protein A column. The purified products were analyzed either as intact IgG or Fc monomer produced as described below . The purification process was done as outlined in and was carried out using the AKTA Explorer systems.

The Protein A Sepharose MAb Select Xtra pre packed column 5 ml volume was equilibrated with 5 6 CV of 50 mM Sodium Acetate pH 6.8 at a flow rate of 2.0 ml min. The clarified crude harvest 500 ml containing product from pool was loaded onto the column at a flow rate of 2.0 ml min. The column was washed in two steps 7 9 CV first wash with 1.5 M NaCl in 50 mM Sodium Acetate pH 6.8 followed by the second wash with 50 mM Sodium Acetate pH 6.8 at a flow rate of 2.0 ml min till baseline was obtained. The product was eluted in one fraction with 20 mM Acetic Acid pH 3.2 at a flow rate of 2.0 ml min. The column run was performed at RT and monitored by UV at 280 and 215 nm. The pH was adjusted to 6.0 with Tris 1M. The column was washed with 0.1M Acetic acid pH 2.9 and then cleaned in place with 8 CV 4M Guanidin HCl. The column was re equilibrated with 50 mM Sodium Acetate pH 6.8 and stored in 20 Ethanol.

The fraction eluted from the Protein A Sepharose MAb Select Xtra column was dialysed in SnakeSkin dialysis tubing 10 kDa MW cut off pore size twice against Formulation buffer 100 mM NaCl 100 mM glycine 10 mM citrate pH 5.8 over night in volume ratio about 1 100. After dialysis the sample was concentrated by ultrafiltration 10 kDa MW cut off membrane in an Amicon concentrator. Those steps were performed at 2 8 C. Product concentration of the concentrated product was measured by ELISA or by O.D. 280 nm.

The fraction eluted from the Protein A column was dialysed in SnakeSkin dialysis tubing 10 kDa MW cut off pore size twice against buffer 0.1 M Tris HCl 4 mM EDTA pH 7.6 over night at 4 C. in volume ratio about 1 100 protein buffer . After dialysis the sample was concentrated to 1 mg ml by ultrafiltration 10 kDa MW cut off membrane in an Amicon concentrator. The anti EGFR was cleaved to Fab and Fc fractions by Papain. The cleavage was carried out by incubating the antibody at a final concentration of 1 mg ml in 0.1 M Tris HCl pH 7.6 4 mM EDTA 5 mM cysteine. The digestion was initiated by the addition of papain diluted to 1 mg ml with water to give a final protein enzyme ratio of 100 1 w w . The digestion was carried out for 2 hours at 37 C. the cleavage was stopped by the addition of maleimide 33 mM and chilled on ice. The Fc dimer fraction was purified from the cleavage mixture by Protein A affinity chromatography as described herein above. The purified Fc dimer dialysed in SnakeSkin dialysis tubing 10 kDa MW cut off pore size twice against PBS 1 pH 7.2 and concentrated to 2 mg ml by ultrafiltration 10 kDa MW cut off membrane in an Amicon concentrator.

Reduction and alkylation was performed using the Fc dimer fraction under denaturing conditions to produce the Fc monomer for characterization of fucose level on the N glycosylation site at position 297 located in CH2 domain of the heavy chain see background . Fc dimer fraction was diluted to 1 mg ml with a buffer 4 M Guanidine HCl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.8 then Dithiothreitol DTT 5 mM was added and the reaction mixture was placed at 75 C. for 5 minutes. Protein solution was then cooled to room temperature and 0.5 M Iodoacetamide stock solution was added to reach a final concentration of 15 mM. The alkylation was performed at room temperature for 40 minutes in the dark. Then a 0.5 M DTT stock solution was added to obtain 15 mM concentration to quench the alkylation.

The fraction eluted from the Protein A Sepharose MAb Select Xtra column was dialysed in SnakeSkin dialysis tubing 10 kDa MW cut off pore size twice against Formulation buffer 100 mM NaCl 100 mM glycine 10 mM citrate pH 5.8 overnight in volume ratio about 1 100 protein buffer . After dialysis the sample was concentrated by ultrafiltration 10 kDa MW cut off membrane in an Amicon concentrator. Those steps were performed at 2 8 C. Product concentration of the concentrated product was measured by ELISA or by O.D. 280 nm.

This assay was used to determine either the level of fucose or sialic acid on purified products intact IgG1 or Fc monomer by the Octet kinetic analysis. The assay was performed as described below.

The NHS PEG4 Biotin reagent was used for biotinylation of either AAL or MAA according manufacturer instructions. The biotin reagent solution 1 mM in PBS 1 pH 7.2 was added to 1 ml of lectin 1 mg ml 1 5 ratio Lectin Biotin . The reaction mixture was incubated for 2 hours on ice. Dialyis of the sample was performed against PBS pH 7.2 in Slide A Lyzer cassette 10 kDa MW cut off pore size .

The streptavidin biosensors SA were pre incubated in kinetic buffer for 20 min at 30 C. without shaking before the experiment was started. The buffers the biotinylated lectin and the purified product were prepared according to the required concentration and were transferred to a 96 well plate 250 l well all steps were performed at 30 C. shaking rate 1000 rpm . The run was initiated by placing the biosensors in the appropriate wells and measuring the change in layer thickness in nanometers nm with time all under computer control. First the 1 g ml of biotinylated AAL AAL B or 10 g ml biotinylated MAA MAA B was immobilized onto the streptavidin biosensor tips surface for 40 min the loading step . Then the tips were washed in diluted kinetics buffer KB 1 for 10 min baseline step . At the association step the purified protein was bound to the biotinylated lectin for 40 min followed by washing in the KB 1 buffer for the dissociation step. shows a typical profile of a kinetic analysis by the Octet. Data was processed automatically using the Octet User Software version 6.3.

Imaged capillary isoelectric focusing was performed using an iCE280 Analyzer Convergent Biosciences . The isoforms separation is achieved on a capillary cartridges 50 mm length 100 m I.D. column separation capillary that has its inner surface pre coated with fluorocarbon compound.

The purified and dialyzed anti EGFR samples were concentrated to 4 mg ml by ultrafiltration 10 kDa MW cut off cellulose membrane in an Amicon Ultra Centrifugal Filter. The sample for analysis was prepared by mixing 20 l of 4 mg ml anti EGFR 80 l of running stock solution. The separation is performed using a 100 mM NaOH as catholyte and a 80 mM H3PO4 as anolyte solutions. The electropherograms are acquired by UV absorbance at 280 nm. A summary of the final conditions and concentration are given in Table 3 herein below.

Fc monomer of antibody to EGFR was isolated as described above further evaluated for glycan analysis by MS.

Cell cultures were maintained in ACFM as follows Cells were seeded into 50 ml tubes at a concentration of 0.2 10cell ml and incubated at 37 C. on an orbital shaker at 320 rpm. Twice a week cell number and viability were measured. The culture was passaged by centrifugation at 100 g for 5 minutes at 4 C. and cell pellet was then re suspended in fresh pre warmed ACFM.

Population doubling level PDL and population doubling time PDT calculations were determined according to the following equations 

Cells were seeded into 50 ml tubes TPP Cat 87050 at a concentration of 0.2 10cell ml and incubated at 37 C. on an orbital shaker at 320 rpm. At different time points cell number and viability were measured.

For specific productivity PCD in ACFM cells were seeded in the specified ACFM at a concentration of 0.5 10cells ml in a 50 ml tube and incubated at 37 C. in a shaker incubator 320 rpm for 24 hours. Medium was then taken out and product concentration was determined by ELISA. The calculation was done by dividing the 24 hours titers by the average concentration of cells at seeding and after 24 hours of the experiment.

Growth and productivity in cell suspension batch process was done at seeding concentration of 0.2 10cells well in 40 ml ProCHO5 medium and 12 ml CHO CD EfficientFeed A Invitrogen Cat. A10234 01 CHO CD EfficientFeed B Invitrogen Cat. A10240 01 1 1 in 125 ml Erlenmeyer flasks 125 ml Corning Cat. WI 431143 shaking at 125 RPM at 37 C. with 5 COuntil viability level declined below 70 . Samples were withdrawn for product titer analysis by ELISA metabolites concentration cell concentration viability every 1 2 days from day three onward.

The strategy employed for isolation of low fucose expressing cells was based on creation of random mutations and selection of cells with the required low fucose phenotype.

The process comprised several steps as depicted in and was initiated by by incubation of CHO S cells with the mutagenic agent MTX so as to generate mutations. Then MTX was removed and the cells were isolated according to one of the following steps 

CHO S cells in C6614 were seeded at 0.2 10cells ml in 100 nM MTX and propagated for 10 days until viability exceeded 90 . Then the cells were transferred at the same initial concentration to C6614 with 200 nM MTX until viability exceeded 90 . The cells were frozen and served for isolation of low fucose containing cells.

Fifty million CHO S cells incubated in 200 nM MTX wild type CHO S and CHO DUKX cells were separated once on magnetic beads seeded in 96 well plates propagated and transferred in T80 flasks. The number and the viability of the separated unbound cells was higher in the case of the MTX treated CHO S cells and much lower in non MTX treated cells. Moreover CHO S cells incubated in MTX reached T80 flasks in 14 days whereas CHO S and CHO DUKX reached T80 flasks only after 22 days. Further low fucose cell isolation was done only with MTX treated CHO S cells. The second streptavidin coated magnetic beads isolation was initiated with 5 10cells and the selected non binding cells were seeded in 96 well plates. FACS sorting of the 1.5 lowest fucose population was performed with 4 10cells following recovery and cell propagation.

Analysis of the fucose level on the cells surface showed that following labeling of cells with biotinylated AAL and SA PE only the CHO S MTX sorted cells showed a sub population with low fucose levels on the cells membrane. CHO S and CHO DUKX data not shown separated cells presented normal fucose level on the cells membrane. A further analysis of CHO S MTX treated cells following two rounds of streptavidin coated magnetic beads selection and a single FACS sorting selection is depicted in and shows the low fucose profile of the sorted cells. The low fucose profile was found to be similar in both ProCHO5 and C6614 media .

A similar approach was performed with biotinylated AOL. Analysis of CHO S MTX treated cells labeled with biotinylated AOL following two rounds of streptavidin coated magnetic beads selection and a single FACS sorting selection is depicted in and shows the low fucose profile of the sorted cells.

CHO S cells incubated with MTX were labeled with biotinylated AOL and mixed with streptavidin coated magnetic beads. The cells were separated on a magnet and cells which did not attach to the magnet were further propagated. This step was repeated twice. Then the cells were labeled with biotinylated AOL and fluorescent streptavidin and the low fluorescent cells were sorted by FACS and were further propagated. FACS analysis was carried out by labeling the cells with biotinylated AOL and fluorescent streptavidin. The results shown in show that AOL may also be used to select for low fucose expressing cells.

Analysis of the sialic acid level may indicate not only the existence of sialic acid on the oligosaccharides but also ensures that during the low fucose cell selection the entire oligosaccharide has not been lost. Analysis of the sialic acid level on the cell s membrane was done by incubation of the cells with sialic acid specific lectin MAA conjugated to FITC followed by FACS analysis. The analysis showed that following labeling of cells with biotinylated AAL and SA PE both CHO S and ITL LF 1 cells present similar levels of sialic acid on the cells membrane in ProCHO5 and C6614 media .

Analysis of the fucose level on the cells surface was determined at different time points after selection of the ITL LF1 cells for 358 population doublings PDLs and showed that following labeling of cells with biotinylated AAL and SA PE the low fucose phenotype remained low and stable .

The growth rate of the ITL LF1 cells was determined during the fucose stability test and was found to result in a PDT of 15 20 hours similar to CHO S.

CHO S cells incubated in 200 nM MTX were sorted by FACS to select for a low fucose population. The initial cell number taken for sorting the fraction of low fucose gated cells as well as the number of sorted cells in every sorting cycle is indicated in Table 4 herein below.

Analysis of the fucose level on the cells surface showed that following labeling of cells with biotinylated AAL and SA PE the zero fucose sorted CHO S MTX fraction increased with the number of sorts performed. Three rounds of sorts resulted in a homogenous population with low fucosylation levels. A fourth sort was applied in order to further substantiate the selection of homogenous population with low fucose levels . Another analysis showed that the fucosylation levels of ITL LF2 cells were zero in both ProCHO5 and C6614 media .

Analysis of the sialic acid level may indicate not only the existence of sialic acid on the oligosaccharides but also ensures that along the low fucose selection the entire oligosaccharide has not been lost. The analysis showed that following labeling of cells with sialic acid specific lectin FITC conjugated MAA both CHO S and ITL LF2 cells present similar levels of sialic acid on the cells membrane .

Analysis of the fucose level on the cells surface was determined at different time points after selection of the ITL LF2 low fucose cells for 370 PDLs and showed that following labeling of cells with biotinylated AAL and SA PE the low fucose phenotype remained low and stable .

The growth rate of the ITL LF2 cells was determined during the fucose stability test and was found to result in a PDT of 15 20 hours similar to CHO S.

To determine maximum cell concentration under pure batch culture conditions no feed ITL LF2 cells were seeded at a concentration of 0.2 10cells ml in a 50 ml tube and cultured for seven days. Maximum viable concentration reached was 8.4 10cells ml which is slightly higher than parent CHO S that reached a maximum of 7.5 10viable cells ml .

ITL LF2 cells were seeded in ProCHO5 medium in the presence of increasing concentrations of L fucose in the culture medium. FACS analysis results show correlation between the exogenously added fucose concentration and the fucosylation level on the cells membrane .

In order to evaluate the performances of the ITL LF2 cells and compare them to CHO S cells in a batch process the cells were seeded in ProCHO5 CHO CD EfficientFeed and propagated for as long as the viability remained higher than 60 . Samples were taken from the culture in order to measure cell concentration cell viability metabolites concentration and produt titers. The results show that ITL LF2 grow for a longer time with higher viability and 20 higher integral viable cell concentration IVCC in comparison to CHO S cells. ITL LF2 cells also show significantly lower lactate concentration along the process which indicates that those cells utilize of lactate as a carbon source more efficiently than the parent CHO S cells.

Cloning of ITL LF2 cells was done by the Automated Cell Deposition Unit ACDU device of the FACSAria cell sorter. 103 and 124 clones emerged from 192 wells seeded in 80 C6366 20 ProCHO5 in two experiments which reflects 54 and 65 recovery eight days post cloning. Similar recovery range is usually obtained following cloning of CHO S cells data not shown . Several clones were propagated in ProCHO5 medium and served for mRNA characterization.

The fucosylation pathway is composed of two routes that start separately and converge. The two routes are composed of the de novo pathway from D glucose and the salvage pathway from L fucose. To investigate the cause of the low fucose phenotype in ITL LF2 cells analysis was carried out on expression of genes that are involved in the pathway. This is in order to see if any of these genes may be disrupted either in sequence or in expression levels. The genes that were analyzed for expression pattern by RT PCR and sequencing and expression level by Q PCR are highlighted in .

To analyze the fucosylation pathway genes expressed in ITL LF2 in comparison to CHO S parental cells total RNA was extracted from both cell lines and subjected to reverse transcription RT following by PCR with gene specific primers that capture the entire coding region. The resulting cDNAs were then run on agarose gels to analyze if there are differences in the sizes obtained from the parental CHO S and ITL LF2 cells. The bands that were obtained were further analyzed by sequencing. shows the results obtained after RT PCR for all four genes tested.

cDNAs of similar sizes were obtained for the GDP 4 keto 6 deoxy D mannose epimerase reductase Fx and Alpha 1 6 fucosyltransferase Fut8 genes. Sequencing analysis confirmed that both genes cDNAs are identical in the two cell lines. GDP beta L fucose pyrophosphorylase GFPP was undetectable in CHO S cells checked in several RT PCR analyses but a very faint band at the expected size could be detected in the ITL LF2 cells arrow in . Sequencing was not carried out in this case.

For the GMD gene a band at the expected size was detected in CHO S cells and sequencing revealed it to be the expected full length GMD mRNA. However in ITL LF2 cells two bands were detected these two bands sometimes look as one fat band on a gel indicating a doublet both smaller than the full length ORF. Sequencing revealed the presence of two splice variants one denoted splice variant 1 SV1 containing a deletion of exons 8 and 9 and the second splice variant 2 SV2 with a deletion in exons 3 and 4 . Protein sequences of the full length GMD and both splice variants are set forth in SEQ ID NOs 23 25. DNA sequences of the full length GMD and both splice variants are set forth in SEQ ID NOs 26 28. In addition a small band of 250 bp was found in both CHO S and ITL LF2 cells. Due to the fact that this small band was detected in both cell types this band does not seem to be the reason for the differences seen in glycosylation in both these cell types. Therefore this band was referred to as a small band but was not analyzed further.

Analysis of the GMD splice variants SV sequence revealed the presence of a unique restriction enzyme site for each splice variant BglII on exon 4 and XmnI on exon 8 see . For further verification of the mRNA pattern in CHO S and ITL LF2 cells additional RT PCR was carried out from each cell type. The cDNA was then split into three equal parts one untreated the other digested with BglII and the third digested with XmnI. All reactions were then run on an agarose gel and bands were detected and compared to a DNA size marker . The rational behind this experiment was that if ITL LF2 cells contain a mixture of the two SVs digestion with one restriction enzyme will leave a higher band of the SV that does not contain the specific restriction site and additional new bands will appear at the expected sizes for the other SV that does contain the specific restriction site. Expected sizes of bands were obtained in all digestions indicating that indeed in ITL LF2 the two splice variants exist as a mixture. In addition the largest higher band after restriction the SV that was not digested was excised from the gel and sequenced. Results showed the presence of the SV expected in each case SV2 remained as a higher band in the BglII digested fraction and SV1 remained in the XmnI digested fragment for explanation of fragment sizes obtained see Table 6 herein below .

The expression level of genes involved in the fucosylation pathway was determined by Q PCR with gene specific primers and probes. No significant change was detected in expression levels of any of the genes tested . The results indicate that changes in the fucosylation levels of the ITL LF2 cells were not due to the GMD mRNAs expression level.

ITL LF2 cells generated following four cycles of low fucose selection by FACS were propagated and frozen. These cells were thawed in order to propagate them and to prepare a PreMCB. Pre master cell bank pre MCBs containing 60 ampoules with 10 10cells per vial were prepared.

One ampoule from the pre MCB of ITL LF2 cells was thawed 11 days post freezing. Viability measured immediately after thawing was 98.3 . The cells were propagated for three growth cycles and found to be 99.0 viable respectively.

In ITL LF2 cells it was found that the GMD gene which is involved in the de novo synthesis pathway of fucose exhibited two splice variants and no full length mRNA which differs from the pattern seen in CHO S wild type cells. In order to evaluate whether the lack of full length GMD protein is the cause for the low fucose phenotype seen in ITL LF2 cells the cells were transfected with the full length GMD cDNA following by FACS analysis of the fucosylation levels.

The full length GMD cDNA was created by RT PCR on total RNA extracted from CHO S wt cells utilizing the primers 586 26 and 587 22 depicted in Table 5 herein above. In order to clone this gene into the required vector an additional step of PCR was carried out with primers 700 45 and 701 30 for details see Table 7 herein below that enabled addition of restriction enzyme RE sites 5 SwaI and 3 XhoI required for the cloning step.

The PCR fragment was digested with SwaI and xhoI and ligated to vector pCMV P that was digested with the same restriction enzymes.

The resulting vector MB 129 contains the GMD gene under the hCMV promoter with the puromycin resistance gene as a selection marker on a separate cassette as illustrated in .

Fucose expression of transfected cells ITL LF2 and CHO S cells were transfected with linear plasmid containing the GMD coding sequence pCMV P GMD in triplicates using lipofectamine reagent. ITL LF2 cells were recovered for three days in 50 C6614 Sigma and 50 C6366 Sigma supplemented with 13.6 mg L Hypoxanthine 3.9 mg L thymidine HT and 10 g ml fucose. Then the transfected cells were selected in 50 C6614 Sigma and 50 C6366 Sigma supplemented with 10 g ml fucose and 10 g ml Puromycin. After full recovery the ITL LF2 transfected pools were transferred to ProCHO5 medium containing 10 g ml Puromycin without fucose.

The fucosylation level was analyzed by FACS on ITL LF2 GMD transfected cells and compared with the fucosylation levels of CHO S positive control and ITL LF2 negative control cells . The results demonstrate that approximately 45 of the population express proteins with fucosylation levels similar to those of CHO S cells. The rest of the population 55 shows lower fucosylation levels. Nevertheless the population with the low fucosylation level had higher fucocylation levels than that of ITL LF2 non transfected cells. The above results indicate that fucosylation was reconstituted in ITL LF2 cells following transfection with GMD containing plasmid and confirms that the defect in the GMD mRNA was the reason for the low fucosylation level on ITL LF2 cells. The reason for the existence of two sub populations of ITL LF2 GMD transfected cells that have different fucosylation level may derive from the stringency of the puromycin selection. It is assumed that both low and high fucosylated subpopulations express puromycin N acetyl transferase PAC in a sufficient amount to survive the puromycin selection but there might be no direct correlation between the PAC and the GMD expression. Therefore the two subpopulations express different levels of GMD protein that results in different levels of fucosylation.

ITL LF2 and CHO S cells were transfected with linear plasmid containing the anti EGFR mAb coding sequence PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem in triplicates using lipofectamine reagent.

ITL LF2 cells were recovered for three days in 50 C6614 Sigma and 50 C6366 Sigma supplemented with 13.6 mg L Hypoxanthine 3.9 mg L thymidine HT and 10 g ml fucose. Then the transfected cells were selected in 50 A C6614 Sigma and 50 C6366 Sigma supplemented with 10 g ml fucose and 5 10 g ml Puromycin. After eight days the cells were transferred to C6614 medium with 10 g ml fucose and 25 g ml Puromycin. After full recovery the ITL LF2 transfected pools were combined in order to create a combined pool of low fucose transfected cells. Fucose was removed from the medium and later on the cells were transferred to ProCHO5 medium containing 10 g ml Puromycin.

CHO S cells were recovered for three days in ProCHO5 medium Sigma supplemented with 27.2 mg L Hypoxanthine 7.8 mg L thymidine HT and 10 g ml fucose. Then the transfected cells were selected in ProCHO5 medium supplemented with 10 g ml fucose and 25 g ml Puromycin. After 12 days the CHO S cells were fully recovered.

Recombinant antibody expression was analyzed by ELISA was found to be only slightly lower in ITL LF2 cells in comparison to CHO S transfected cells .

Analysis of fucose levels on cells membrane of anti EGFR mAb transfected cells propagated in C6614 medium before and after removal of fucose shows that upon fucose removal fucosylation declines to the initial low level obtained in the absence of fucose .

The analysis showed that after transfection and following labeling of cells with a sialic acid specific lectin FITC conjugated MAA both CHO S and ITL LF2 anti EGFR transfected cells present similar levels of sialic acid on their cells membrane. These levels are also similar to the levels of CHO S and ITL LF2 untransfected cells .

For the transient transfections of anti EFGR mAb into ITL LF2 cells two vectors were constructed on the backbone of the pTT5 vector. One vector contained the light chain LC and the other the heavy chain HC of the EFGR mAb antibody.

To create vector MB 127 a PCR fragment of 1476 bp containing the EFGR mAb HC was created utilizing primers 690 36 691 38 on vector PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem 872. The fragment was digested with HindIII and NotI and ligated into vector pTT5 that was digested with the same RE. The resulting vector can be seen in .

To create vector MB 128 a PCR fragment of 762 bp containing the EFGR mAb LC was created utilizing primers 692 36 693 32 on vector PGL3 anti EGFR mAb EMCV PAC1 DHFR Tandem 872. The fragment was digested with HindIII and NotI and ligated into vector pTT5 that was digested with the same RE. The resulting vector can be seen in .

ITL LF2 and CHO S cells were transfected with anti EGFR mAb containing PTT5 vector using PEI reagent in triplicates. Then two transfection protocols were performed 

CHO S and ITL LF2 cells were transfected in medium containing ProCHO5 at 37 C. and twenty four hours post transfection CHO S cells were supplemented with valproic acid and incubated at 31 C. The protein concentration in ITL LF2 and CHO S cells under the above stated conditions was 12.5 g ml and 25 g ml respectively .

Crude or purified material containing antibodies were bound on protein G magnetic beads followed by staining with a fluorescently labeled specific lectin as illustrated in . The antibody samples were analyzed by FACS in order to detect the sugar residue levels.

Crude harvest samples from transient transfection were concentrated by spin filter Amicon ultra cat UFC801024 in order to reach a concentration above 25 g ml. Analyses were done as indicated in the Methods section at protein product concentration of 32 37 g ml. The results show clearly that the ITL LF2 transfected cells express anti EGFR mAb protein with low fucose levels similar to those of material from stably transfected cells and in correlation with the levels detected on the cells membrane .

Crude harvest samples prepared from cell culture batch were collected. Analyses were done by FACS as described in the Methods section at a protein concentration of 25 g ml. The results show clearly that the ITL LF2 transfected cells express anti EGFR mAb protein with low fucose levels similar to those of material from transiently transfected cells and in correlation with the levels detected on the cells membrane .

Crude harvest samples prepared from cell culture batch were collected. Analyses were done by FACS as described in the Methods section at a protein concentration of 25 g ml. The results show clearly that the ITL LF2 and CHO S transfected cells express anti EGFR mAb protein with similar sialic acid levels in correlation with the levels detected on the cells membrane .

FACS analysis of anti EGFR mAb purified product from stably transfected ITL LF2 cells showed low fucose levels whereas purified product from parent CHO S cells contained normal fucose levels . The fucose levels are in correlation with the levels detected on the cells membrane and in crude material .

FACS analysis of anti EGFR mAb purified material from stably transfected cells showed similar sialic acid levels on material from both ITL LF2 and CHO S cells . The sialic acid levels are in correlation with the levels detected on the cells membrane and in crude material .

The intact anti EGFR mAb purified fraction eluted from the Protein A column was dialyzed against formulation buffer and concentrated. Fucose level on the intact purified anti EGFR mAb produced by either wild type CHO S cells or ITL LF2 was determined by binding anti EGFR mAb to biotinylated aleuria aurantia lectin AAL . The assay was performed on the Octet QK system using the kinetic analysis module. First the biotinylated AAL was bound to a streptavidin coated biosensor and then the fucose on the anti EGFR antibody was bound to the AAL lectin. Analysis of the intact anti EGFR mAb enables detection of the Fab fucosylation residue only since the fucosylation site ASN 297 located on the Fc region is not accessible to the AAL data not shown . In order to detect the fucosylation site on the Fc region an Fc monomer should be prepared.

The results demonstrate the low fucose levels on intact anti EGFR mAb produced by the ITL LF2 cells relative to the product produced by CHO S transfected cells .

The anti EGFR mAb produced by either wild type CHO S cells WT or ITL LF2 cells was evaluated for sialylation levels. Intact anti EGFR mAb purified fraction eluted from the Protein A column was dialyzed against formulation buffer and concentrated. The sialic acid levels on the intact purified anti EGFR mAb was determined by binding the product to biotinylated Maackia amurensis lectin MAA . The assay was performed on the Octet QK system using the kinetic analysis module. First the biotinylated MAA was bound to a streptavidin coated biosensor and then the sialic acid on the anti EGFR mAb was bond to the MAA lectin. The results show that the sialic acid levels are similar on both products produced by ITL LF2 and CHO S cells. The results imply that the only difference in the product produced by ITL LF2 and CHO S cells is the level of fucose whereas the entire glycosylation profile was probably not changed.

The Fc fractions of anti EGFR were prepared by Papain cleavage of the intact antibody then reduction and alkylation were followed by dialysis and concentration steps. The Fc monomer fractions were prepared from product produced by wild type CHO S cells ITL LF2 cells. The fucose levels on the Fc monomer were determined by binding the fractions to biotinylated AAL that was previously attached to streptavidin coated biosensors of the Octet QK. The results demonstrate the low fucose level on anti EGFR Fc monomer from ITL LF2 cells relative to the product produced by CHO S cells .

The Fc fractions of anti EGFR mAb were prepared by Papain cleavage of intact antibody then reduction and alkylation were followed by dialysis and concentration. The Fc dialyzed and concentrated monomer fractions were prepared from product produced by wild type CHO S ITL LF2 cells. The fucose level on the Fc monomer was determined by binding the fractions to a biotinylated MAA that was previously attached to streptavidin coated biosensors of the Octet QK system. The results show similar sialylation levels on the Fc fraction purified from both CHO S and ITL LF2 cells .

The anti EGFR mAb product produced by wild type CHO S or ITL LF2 cells was purified on a Protein A column dialyzed against formulation buffer and concentrated. The charge profile of the intact products was analyzed by capillary electrophoresis on iCE 280. shows the comparison between the pI values of the purified products from CHO S cells ITL LF2 cells. The results demonstrate that the charge profile of product produced by the CHO S and ITL LF2 cells are similar while the reference sample seems to be slightly more basic compared to them probably due to the difference in the cell lines and culture conditions.

The purified anti EGFR intact mAb was cleaved by Papain to produced Fc and Fab fractions then the Fc fraction was purified followed by dialysis and concentration. The anti EGFR Fc samples from wild type CHO S and ITL LF2 cells were analyzed at EMD Serono Research Center Billerica USA by mass spectrometry for evaluation of the fucosylation level at the conserved Fc region glycosylation site. The observed glycan structures were mainly biantennary with 0 1 and 2 galactoses G0 F G1 F and G2 F respectively as described in . The galactose level is higher in the CHO S derived material as indicated by the higher fraction with one and mainly two galactose residues. The results show that the IgG Fc region of product produced by wild type CHO S cells was fully fucosylated while the Fc region of product produced by ITL LF2 cells was afucosylated.

ITL LF2 anti EGFR mAb transfected cells were seeded in ProCHO5 medium in the presence of increasing concentrations of L fucose in the culture medium. The cells as well as crude material were analyzed 4 days after cell seeding. FACS analysis results show correlation between the exogenously added fucose concentration and the fucosylation level on the cells membrane as well as on the recombinant anti EGFR mAb . Maximum fucosylation was obtained at 10 g ml fucose on both cells and recombinant anti EGFR mAb. The lowest fucosylation levels were detected on cells at 1 g ml external fucose whereas on recombinant anti EGFR mAb the lowest fucosylation level was detected at higher concentration of 2.5 g ml external fucose.

Based on the above results a calibration curve was created where maximum fluorescence was interpreted as 100 fucosylation and the sample obtained without fucose was determined as 0 fucosylation. The fluorescence level at 0 external fucose was subtracted from the fluorescence level obtained at each external fucose concentration and then the percentage of fucosylation was calculated as the fluorescence level at each fucose concentration devided by the fluorescence level at 100 fucosylation fucose saturation . A curve was drawn from these figures .

Calibration Curve of Fucosylated and Afucosylated Anti EGFR mAb Fc Monomer Based on the Octet QK Results 

The Fc fractions of anti EGFR were prepared by Papain cleavage of the intact antibody followed by reduction alkylation dialysis and concentration. The Fc monomer fractions were prepared from product produced by wild type CHO S cells and ITL LF2 cells. Samples for the calibration curve were prepared by mixing different ratios of product from CHO S cells pool 100 fucose and product from ITL LF2 cells 0 fucose . The fucose levels on each sample were determined by binding the mixed sample to biotinylated AAL that was previously attached to streptavidin coated biosensors of the Octet QK system. The association step of the kinetic analysis was performed by the Octet QK system. Each curve corresponds to a specific of fucose in the sample . The linear correlation between the binding level and the of fucosylated material in the calibration curve can serve for calculations of the fucosylated level of required samples. The results show that the assay is sensitive and can distinguish with high resulation between close levels of fucose. The linear correlation between the binding level and the of fucosylated material imply that a required percentage of fucosylation can be obtained by addition of a certain exogenous fucose concentration.

Following the results of the FACS analysis that shows correlation between the exogenously added fucose concentration and the fucosylation level on the cells membrane the fucose levels on the purified anti EGFR mAb was determined by Octet. ITL LF2 cells expressing anti EGFR mAb were cultured in 5 batches in parallel for 4 days in the presence of 3.5 g ml fucose and the medium was harvested. The anti EGFR mAb was purified and cleaved by Papain followed by reducing and alkylation for isolation of the Fc monomer fraction. The fucose level was analyzed as described above. The results demonstrate that addition of 3.5 g ml fucose to the medium generates 15 of fucosylation level with a variability of 0.5 in protein purified from five different batchs . This indicates that the desired fucose level is reproducible.

The fucosylation level on anti EGFR mAb monomer fractions were analyzed by mass spectrometry. ITL LF2 cells expressing anti EGFR mAb were cultured in 5 batches in parallel for 4 days in the presence of 3.5 g ml fucose and the medium was harvested. The anti EGFR mAb was purified and cleaved by Papain followed by reducing and alkylation for isolation of the Fc monomer fraction as described above.

The observed glycan structures were mainly biantennary with 0 1 and 2 galactose residues G0 F G1 F and G2 F respectively as described in Table 8 herein below. The galactose level is higher in the CHO S derived material as indicated by the higher fraction of one and mainly two galactose residues. The results demonstrate that addition of 3.5 g ml fucose to the medium induces 15.6 of fucosylation level with variability of 1.7 in protein from five different batchs. These results are in correlation with the results obtained by the Octet . The results show that the IgG Fc region of product produced by wild type CHO S cells was fully fucosylated while the Fc region of product produced by ITL LF2 cells was afucosylated. Very good correlation was found between the Octet and the mass spectrometry results in terms of the fucosylation levels.

Several approaches were developed recently in order to reduce the fucosylation levels of recombinant antibodies for obtaining enhanced ADCC. Development of the ITL LF2 cell line from CHO S cells was done successfully in this work by incubation of cells in the presence of methotrexate followed by an efficient selection of cells with the lowest fucose levels i.e. zero fucose on the cells membrane. Mutations and gene amplification created by incubation of cells in the presence of methotrexate MTX was previously described in the literature Schimke 1988 Coquelle Pipiras et al. 1997 Singer Mesner et al. 2000 .

Following MTX treatment the mutagenic reagent was removed for the next selection steps. The selection was either done by isolation on magnetic beads and or by FACS sorting using the fucose specific lectin aleuria aurantia lectin AAL which has high affinity towards the aFuc1 6GlcNA residue present on the Fc glycosylation site. Although the selection of the zero fucose expressing cells was done according to the fucose levels on the cells membrane zero fucose levels were found on the recombinant antibody anti EGFR mAb expressed in these cells by a variety of analysis methods . The anti EGFR mAb which served as a model antibody presents two N glycosylation sites one on the Fab fragment and the other which is important for the ADCC activity on the Fc CH2. The Octet and MS analyses were performed not only on the intact mAb but also on the Fc monomer with the ADCC relevant fucose residue. The results show zero fucose levels on the ADCC relevant fucose residue from material produced by the ITL LF2 cells. The zero fucose phenotype of the ITL LF2 cells was found to be stable for 370 PDLs tested . Development of cells expressing recombinant proteins and production in bioreactors is usually completed within 200 PDLs of the cells. The length of the zero fucose stability experiment 370 PDLs is longer than that so it is expected that the ITL LF2 will remain stable for the entire clone development and production process. Most of the ITL LF2 cell line characteristics were found to be similar to CHO S as can be concluded from Table 8 herein below. Growth rate maximum cell concentration sialic acid level of cells proteins and of recombinant antibody expressed in these cells and the expression level of anti EGFR mAb were very similar. In addition ITL LF2 cells were superior over CHO S cells in viability and as a result in integral viable cell concentration IVCC determined in a batch process. This phenomenon could be a result of the stringent selection process that the cells went through along the sorting cycles for low fucose content on the cells membrane.

Stable transfection was done with high efficiency to ITL LF2 cells in the presence of exogenous fucose. Moreover the recovery of ITL LF2 cells from the transfection was faster than of CHO S cells although in the absence of exogenous fucose the transfected cells could hardly be recovered data not shown . This finding implies that fucose has an important role in recovery from transfection and selection steps. Transient transfection with anti EGFR mAb was also successful with about 65 75 of the productivity obtained in CHO S.

Apart from the fact that the fucose level in ITL LF2 cells was found to be zero and stable the level of fucosylation on cells and and recombinant protein was found to be dependent on exogenous fucose addition in a dose dependant manner. Moreover upon exogenous addition of a certain concentration of fucose the resulted fucosylation level of a recombinant antibody in different samples was reproducible and Table 8 . The fucosylation pathway shows that both the de novo and the salvage pathway branches could lead to generation of GDP fucose. Since the ITL LF2 were selected according to the zero fucose phenotype it was interesting to discover the genetic source for that characteristic. Addition of exogenous fucose resulted in regaining of fucosylation level of proteins on the cell s membrane . This finding implied that the salvage pathway is active . RT PCR and sequencing analyses of several key enzymes for the de novo and the salvage pathways showed that fucosyl transferase 8 Fut8 mRNA in ITL LF2 and CHO S cells were identical in both size and sequence data not shown . This finding differentiates the ITL LF2 cells from Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd who disrupted both FUT8 alleles in a Chinese hamster ovary CHO DG44 cell line by sequential homologous recombination Yamane Ohnuki Kinoshita et al. 2004 Kanda Satoh et al. 2005 .

Similarly to Fut8 the mRNA size and sequence of GDP keo 6 deoxymannose 3 5 epimerase 4 reductase FX involved in the de novo pathway was not changed in the ITL LF2 cells. On the other hand the mRNA size of the GDP mannose 4 6 dehydratase GMD in ITL LF2 cells was shorter than in CHO S and the sequence revealed two splice variants. The mRNA molecules extracted from the cells lacked either the third and fourth or the eighth and ninth exons and . Differentiation between the deletions can not be detected from the gel because the sizes of the deletions are similar and . However only the short GMD versions and not the full length could be detected on the gel . The mechanism by which a sub population that was incubated with a mutagen expresses different splice variants and not the full length mRNA is not clear but it is probable that the alterations do not exist in the original CHO S population as no low fucose cells were selected without MTX. These results are very interesting taking into account the selection was done phenotypically.

QPCR analysis showed that all the genes tested that are involved in the fucosylation pathway and express similar mRNA levels . The results suggest that the zero fucose levels obtained in the ITL LF2 cells is derived from either inactivity of the GMD protein expressed from the different splice variants or from low levels or complete absence of the GMD protein.

A different phenotype selection approach was used by another research group for generation of lectin resistant mutants in CHO cells Lec 13 Ripka and Stanley 1986 . In this approach the cells were incubated with toxic pea fucose specific lectin and the resistance cells were found to express human IgG1 that were deficient in fucose attached to the Asn 297 linked carbohydrate Shields Lai et al. 2002 . Further research work revealed that fucose levels in these cells increased after a relatively short time indicating that the low fucose phenotype was not stable and some active GDP fucose protein was synthesized in the de novo pathway Kanda Yamane Ohnuki et al. 2006 . In another recent paper Kanda and co workers Kanda Imai Nishiya et al. 2007 showed by RT PCR analysis that Lec 13 expresses mRNA at the same size as the mRNA expressed in CHO DG44. ITL LF2 cells as was indicated before present a stable zero fucose phenotype probably due to a complete deficiency of the active GMD form . Genotypic analysis of CHO SM Kanda Imai Nishiya et al. 2007 which is another lectin agglutinin LCA resistant cell line by RT PCR sequencing and southern blot revealed that this cell line expresses mutated GMD mRNA that lacks exons 5 6 and 7 encoding critical activity domains Somoza Menon et al. 2000 Webb Mulichak et al. 2004 . Exons 3 and 4 as well as exons 8 and 9 are also critical for the GMD activity as was demonstrated in ITL LF2 cells. It is therefore concluded that ITL LF2 cell s GMD profile is different from both Lec13 and CHO SM.

ITL LF2 cells were generated following four successive sorting cycles by FACS selecting in each sort the lowest fucose or absence of fucose containing fraction of cells Table 4 . The first sort hardly even resulted in cells with low fucose phenotype. Nevertheless after the second sort most of the cells expressed low fucose levels on the cell s membrane. Additional third sort ended with homogenous population that present only zero fucose levels. The fourth sort was done to ensure that only the zero fucose expressing cells are present .

The ITL LF2 cell line has been deposited at the Collection Nationale de Cultures de Microoganisms at the Pasteur Institute in Paris as deposit CNCM I 4449 on Feb. 28 2011.

