---

title: Systems and methods for generating a dynamic personalized events feed
abstract: A device and method for generating a dynamic personalized events feed that is personalized for a user is provided. The device may include one or more processors configured to determine events that match filtering information, generate the dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events, and update the generated dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events. The device may also include a network interface component coupled to a network, the network interface component configured to receive the filtering information, and transmit the generated dynamic personalized events feed to a user device. The device may further include a memory, the memory storing event information and user information for determining events that match the filtering information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390401&OS=09390401&RS=09390401
owner: STUBHUB, INC.
number: 09390401
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for generating an events feed for viewing and use by a user. In particular systems and methods disclosed herein may provide a dynamic personalized events feed that is populated with event entries that match filtering information provided by the user.

Attending events is an inherently social experience. People are generally at a venue for the event with additional people who they may or may not know. The people attending the event may be there because they are fans of the band or actor or theatre troupe performing at the event or they may be there attending with a friend or partner. One of the difficulties in attending events that are of interest is actually knowing about the event including when it is happening where the event will be happening and what the event is. Searching for event information using the internet has lessened this difficulty but it is often difficult for someone to know whether the event information is up to date. Further once a person finds out about an event they may have to search some more to find tickets or determine ticket availability. Moreover due to the social nature of attending events people may want to know if anyone from their social circles are attending these events or what these people thought about the events. People may have to rely on information from other social websites to find out about this information or rely on word of mouth recommendations. Social websites are updated based on content provided by users so may not always have the information that a would be event attendee would be looking for or any information that could be available may not be up to date. Moreover any new social network that relies on content provided by its users will inherently be empty as new users begin to join the network. Further event attendees may not always know if any of their friends or contacts are attending events based on ordinarily provided event information.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method generating a dynamic personalized events feed that is automatically populated and updated to provide dynamic event information to a user. Such event information may include information about the event where and how to purchase admission to the event and indications of other users that have purchased admission to the event.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a device for generating a dynamic personalized events feed that is personalized for a user is provided. The device may include one or more processors configured to determine events that match filtering information generate the dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events and update the generated dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events. The device may also include a network interface component coupled to a network the network interface component configured to receive the filtering information and transmit the generated dynamic personalized events feed to a user device. The device may further include a memory the memory storing event information and user information for determining events that match the filtering information.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions for execution by one or more processors that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform a method for generating a dynamic personalized events feed that is personalized for a user. The method may include steps of receiving filtering information determining events that match the received filtering information generating the dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events transmitting the dynamic personalized events feed for display on a user device and updating the dynamic listing of events when new events also matching the received filtering information become available.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a method for generating a dynamic personalized events feed that is personalized for a user. The method includes receiving filtering information wherein the filtering information comprises at least one of past events attended by the user event related searches performed by the user a location of the user events related news and a combination thereof. The method also includes determining events that match the received filtering information generating the dynamic personalized events feed based on the determined events transmitting the dynamic personalized events feed for display on a user device and updating the dynamic listing of events when new events also matching the received filtering information become available. Consistent with some embodiments the steps of the method may be performed by a remote server.

These and other embodiments will be described in further detail below with respect to the following figures.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client mobile device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client mobile device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless mobile computing devices. Consistent with some embodiments client mobile device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client mobile device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client mobile device to perform specific tasks. For example such instructions may include displaying content such as a web page or a user interface using a browser . Further content may be content displayed by particular applications or apps stored in a memory of client mobile device and executed by one or more processors executing in client mobile device . Some common forms of machine readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge and or any other medium from which one or more processors or computer is adapted to read.

Client mobile device may be a mobile device such as a smartphone such as an iPhone or other mobile device running the iOS operating system the Android operating system a BlackBerry operating system the Microsoft Windows Phone operating system Symbian OS or webOS . Client mobile device may also be a tablet computer such as an iPad or other tablet computer running one of the aforementioned operating systems. It should be appreciated that in various embodiments client mobile device may be referred to as a user device or a customer client device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Consistent with some embodiments browser may be a mobile browser app which may be used to provide a user interface to permit a user to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by one or more processors that is configured to interface and communicate with the remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user is able to use browser or other applications to browse upcoming events and purchase tickets for these events. User may also be able to user browser or other applications to access a personalized feed listing events matching predetermined criteria associated with user .

Client mobile device in one embodiment may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a personalized feed listing events matching predetermined criteria associated with user or browsing upcoming events and purchasing tickets for these events. For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile apps downloaded and resident on client mobile device that enables user to access content through the apps.

Client computing device which can be similar to client mobile device may be a separate device such as a PC or laptop or netbook or may be omitted if the user will be using only client mobile device . Both user devices may be used to access content with remote server or other content provider. Client computing device in one embodiment may include a browser application and other applications similar to browser application and applications in client mobile device . Browser application and applications enable user to communicate with remote server to among other things access a personalized feed listing events matching predetermined criteria associated with user as well as other online sites.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online be an event ticketing or payment service provider server. Remote server may include at least event database which maintains a database of events. Remote server may also include an application database for storing various applications for interacting with client mobile device and client computing device over network . Such applications may include applications for authentication conducting financial transactions shopping and purchasing items finding and purchasing tickets for events and creating a personalized event feed based on predetermined criteria associated with user . Remote server may also include a user database that may store information about user such as past searches past purchases and user defined criteria. User database may store information about multiple users that may be shared amongst the users according to each user s preference. For example information pertaining to user may be shared with another user for creating a personalized event feed for the other user if the other user decides that they have a similar taste in events that user does.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communication information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers or digital signal processors DSP a system memory component which may correspond to random access memory RAM an internal memory component which may correspond to read only memory ROM and a external or static memory which may correspond to optical magnetic or solid state memories. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be an liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system may include a location component for determining a location of computing system . In some embodiments location component may correspond to a global positioning system GPS transceiver that is in communication with a satellite. In other embodiments location component may be configured to determine a location of computing system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby mobile communications towers. Location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in any of system memory internal memory and or external memory that can be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of identifying a location of computing system . Consistent with some embodiments the location of computing system may be used by computing system or remote server for the purpose of providing user a feed or listing of events that are near the location of computing system .

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component internal memory component and or external or static memory . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. The medium may correspond to any of system memory internal memory and or external or static memory . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . According to some embodiments transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component . Communication link may be wireless through a wireless data protocol such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HDSPA LTE RF NFC or through a wired connection. Network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via communication link . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory or .

As discussed above user interface includes a dynamic personalized events feed . Dynamic personalized events feed may display a listing of events that match filtering information provided by user or relative to user as discussed above in . For example user may be using user interface for the first time and performs a search for an Opera in Anytown for Tonight. As a result of the search which corresponds to saved searches information dynamic personalized events feed may automatically populate with events that match or are similar to the input search parameters. The next time user accesses user interface with dynamic personalized events feed feed will be updated to reflect more recent events that are similar to the previous search or other filtering information. Because feed is dynamic it may always be populated with the most recent events of interest to user .

Consistent with some embodiments when user purchases a ticket for a listed event user database and or event database may be updated to indicate that user has purchased a ticket and will be attending the event. Consequently this purchase will be included as past events attended filtering information . Moreover feed use the past events information of many users to update event information in event database with a listing of who is attending the event. For example feed may show a total number of people attending the event or may show other user designated by user as friends or colleagues or other designation designed to connect user to other users. According to some embodiments remote server may being coupled to a third party ticketing database not shown that provides real time or near real time updates of how many people are attending an event or how many tickets remain for the event. The information provided to user in feed may be tailored to display information that is of interest to user based on user preferences indicated in user settings and may be dynamically updated to provide user with a up to date and active feed with current and upcoming events of interest to user as discussed above in .

Consistent with some embodiments feed may be embodied as an application that resides in memory or of computing system and is executed by processing device . Feed may also be embodied as a widget that is stored in memory or of computing system and executed by processing device . The widget or application embodying feed may be implemented on user interfaces other than user interface . For example feed may be an application or widget that is usable by a social media platform such as Facebook Google or Twitter such that feed of user may be displayed when user accesses these social media platforms or displayed by other users associated with user on these social media platforms.

User may be able to share or export individual entries from feed or the entire feed . For example user may be able to share an event or feed with a friend or other user so that the friend or other user may be able to view the event or feed . The event or feed may be shared as a hyperlink or as an e mail or other message. The event or feed may be exported as an application or widget for use on other sites as discussed previously. Consistent with some embodiments sharing a feed with another user or receiving another user s feed may create additional characteristics to be used in populating feed . Consistent with some embodiments feed or feed may also include accommodation travel or merchandise information related to each of the event entries. Metadata associated with the event entry may be analyzed to find information about the event and this metadata may be used to find related accommodation travel or merchandise by searching the metadata information on the servers of providers of accommodation travel or merchandise. In some embodiments metadata associated with the event entry may be used to display accommodation travel or merchandise that is available for purchase from a provider such as eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif.

Returning to after feed or has been initially generated processing component of remote server may perform checks to determine if there are changes in filtering information or event information . Changes in filtering information may include new or additional filtering information entered by user . For example if user is traveling user may want to update location information to include their destination. Changes in event information may include updates made to event database to reflect canceled events new events changes in event information and or comments or ticket information related to an event. If changes are made the dynamic personalized events feed is updated by determining events based on the changed event information that also match the changed filtering information . As a result user may be provided with a dynamic events feed that is personalized based on filtering information that is continuously updated with new events that may be of interest to user . Although the method shown in is described as being performed by remote server the method may also be performed locally by client mobile device or client computing device using event information from event database and or user information from user database .

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable medium. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Consequently embodiments as described herein may provide methods systems and devices that generate a dynamic personalized events feed. In particular embodiments as described herein may provide a dynamic updated event feed based tailored to a user s own interests that is dynamically updated to always provide the user with up to date and relevant event information. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

