---

title: Automatic discovery of how and when people met
abstract: A system, computer-readable storage medium, and computer-implemented method for automatic discovery of how and when people met is provided. A plurality of signals are analyzed to determine a level of significance of each of the plurality of signals in providing a suggested entry into a data field of a contact management system designated to provide a description of how a user met a contact. In response to at least one signal of the plurality of signals exceeding a threshold level of significance, a suggested entry for the data field of the contact management system is determined. The suggested entry of how a user met a contact is automatically displayed to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519889&OS=09519889&RS=09519889
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09519889
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
This patent document pertains generally to data processing systems and more particularly but not by way of limitation to techniques for analyzing various information for the purpose of automatically discovering the circumstances around two people becoming acquainted with one another such that information indicating how and when the two people met can be recorded in an address book.

Users of the Internet and mobile telecommunication systems retain contact information across a broad range of contact management systems provided by online sites such as networking sites contact aggregators address book providers e mail providers and calendar systems. The content of the contact information retained at these sites often includes or is directly related to e mail meeting schedules calendar event notifications and telephone call transcriptions blogs and postings. Of course these networking sites collectively include listings of all the contacts related by this content.

It is often important for a user to recall exactly how and when the user met a particular contact for which information is retained on one of the above referenced online sites. Recollection of such information can be very useful to a user at later date especially when the particular contact is a part of the user s professional network or a potential sales contact of the user. Additionally it may be to the user s advantage to keep track of a third party that introduced the user to a contact. A user may benefit from being able to identify third parties who frequently introduce the user to new contacts because those third parties are likely to provide additional contacts that may allow a user to expand their professional or sales networks.

Users wishing to record information about how and when the user met a contact are left with limited options for the traditional online sites referenced above. If the online site provides a general notes field the user may record the explanation of how a user met the contact in that field. However the organization and difficulty in relocating this information can make the process inefficient. Further users often do not add sufficient detail to such notes and the information may then be rendered useless to the user because the information is not complete enough to jog the user s memory concerning the actual circumstances around the initial meeting of the contact. Moreover users frequently do not record this information immediately after the new contact has been added and the information concerning how and when the user met the contact is often forgotten.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for providing a user with a suggested description of how and when the user met a person who is represented as a contact in a list of contacts maintained by a contact management system. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Consistent with embodiments of this invention the suggested description of how a user met a person is provided to the user in a dedicated field of a contact record for the person as maintained by the contact management system. The dedicated field is designated specifically for storing that type of information. Each of the contacts maintained by the contact management system may have a designated field for this information. Each suggestion of how the user met the contact may be confirmed rejected or edited by the user.

Each suggestion of how and when a user met a contact is automatically provided to the user upon addition of the contact to the content management application or at some subsequent time typically during an interaction that the user has with the contact record for the particular contact. The suggestion of how and when a user met a contact is determined from several pieces of data associated with the user. This data may be from a number of different sources including for example social network profile data e.g. LinkedIn Facebook Twitter social network message history locally installed email clients e.g. Microsoft Outlook browser based email clients e.g. Gmail Yahoo Mail Hotmail electronic calendar applications and phone call transcripts and other similar data sources.

In one embodiment a suggestion for how and when a user met a contact may be based on a single piece of information extracted from any one of the above referenced data sources. For example a user sharing the same educational domain name email address as a contact may be provided the suggestion that the user met the contact while attending the same educational institution.

Additionally a suggestion for how and when a user met a contact may be based on multiple pieces of information. For example electronic calendar data from both the user and the contact may indicate that both attended the same event and social network profile data may indicate the user added the contact as a connection the day after the event. In this example the contact management system may provide a user with the suggestion that the user met the contact at an event based on the information provided by the electronic calendar data and social network profile data.

According to certain aspects of the present disclosure each piece of data used in determining how and when a user met a contact is weighted according to its significance in making that determination. For example a user may have the same employer listed in a social network profile as a contact and the user may have the same educational domain name email address as a contact but with a date of attendance that is separated by ten years. In this example the contact management system would recognize that the number of years separating the attendance of a certain university makes the fact that the user and the contact attended the same university less significant in determining how and when the user met the contact. Following this example the user may be provided a suggestion that the user met the contact while working for the same employer.

As shown in the front end consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices not shown may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including member profile databases which stores general information contained on a social network profile including general contact information employer information educational institution information as well as information concerning various online or offline groups. Member profile database may contain information for member profiles for only a single social network profile or for profiles on several different social networks.

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the member profile database . Member profile database may also contain contact information such as lists of contacts previous employers interests organizational affiliations as well as personal and professional addresses phone numbers and websites.

As shown in the data layer also includes social graph database which is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. Of course with various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Once registered a member of a social network service may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a user may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation or some other entity. For purposes of the present disclosure the term connection shall include both the bi lateral agreement by both members and the unilateral operation of following . Each of the connections of a user may be included in social graph database .

A social network service may also provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example a social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such at least with some embodiments a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph. Members of a social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. Accordingly the data for a group may be stored in database . When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group will be reflected in the social graph data stored in the database with reference number . With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Here again membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modeled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

As shown in the data layer also includes conversation database which may include information from various online services including an address book data from electronic address book provider email data from an e mail provider and a calendar data from an electronic calendar provider. In one embodiment the electronic address book provider email provider and electronic calendar provider may each be hosted on a third party server e.g. third party server .

In the aggregate the conversation database may contain conversation content information including e mail calendar event notifications meeting schedules instant messaging histories and telephone call transcripts. The types of conversation data contained in conversation database may extend far beyond the examples presented. Any given one of the conversation data providers may only contain a portion of the conversation data and correlate that information according to the type of user interests that one networking site supports.

As illustrated in the application layer of the contact management system includes a server that includes at least one processing device configured to implement at least the respective contact management processes discussed herein. The contact management system includes a computer memory storing a contact database that in turn includes such address book system elements as contact entries and a set of merged contacts as well as the respective contact identifiers merged contact records and sets of merged contact fields.

Each of the sets of social network connections as referenced above in relation to the social graph data and source contacts as referenced above in relation to the conversation database may be synchronized with and maintained as a merged contact in the contact list of the contact management system . Not every connection or source contact at every social network service or other online service e.g. address book provider email provider calendar provider may correspond to a contact in the contact list within the contact management system . Connections and source contacts corresponding to a merged contact in the contact list may be synchronized with a contact entry within a set of contact entries. Each of the contact entries is subject to a deduplication process to assure the respective contact entry corroborates with a particular merged contact. For those contact entries that do not contain duplicate contact entry elements a merging process combines a most recent and unique set of contact identifiers into merged contact fields with an a respective merged contact record. Each respective merged contact record corresponds to a merged contact in the set of merged contacts and makes up one entry in the contact list.

Each respective contact entry maintained by the contact management system may include one or more data fields to specify additional information about the contact. In an example embodiment of the contact management system each respective contact entry includes a data field to describe how the user met each respective contact.

As illustrated in with some embodiments the contact management system is implemented as its own application server module such that it operates as a stand alone application. However with various alternative embodiments the contact management system may be implemented as a service that operates in conjunction and is integrated with a social network or other online service. With some embodiments the contact management system may include or have an associated publicly available application program interface API module that enables third party applications to invoke the functionality of the contact management system over communication network .

As illustrated in the contact management system may include API module which is coupled to and provides programmatic interfaces to one or more suggestion modules . In one embodiment the API module may obtain information over communication network from the third party server to be stored in databases or and later utilized by the suggestion module in determining a suggested entry for the contact management system . The third party may for example be a social network service an address book provider an email provider or a calendar provider. The suggestion modules are in turn coupled to the one or more databases and .

Generally the suggestion module takes as input parameters several pieces of information from each of the databases and . The suggestion module discussed in further detail below analyzes each piece of information received from databases and to determine the level of significance of each piece of information in providing an entry to a data field associated with a contact entry maintained by the contact management system . Consistent with embodiments of the invention the data field entry may include a description of how and when a user met a contact. Information rising above a certain level of significance may be used by the suggestion module in determining a suggested entry for the contact management system . This suggested entry may then be presented to a user device not shown by the user interface module . Details of the modules and processes comprising the suggestion module are presented in greater detail below with respect .

In one embodiment the third party server may utilizing information retrieved from the communication network support one or more features or functions of the contact management system on a website hosted by the third party. The third party website may for example be a social network service having a plurality of users each having a plurality of contacts to be managed by the contact management system .

Data entry box is an entry field to facilitate input or confirmation of data that is stored for each of the contact entries maintained by the contact management system . Data entry box is a designated entry field to provide an indication of how and when a user met the contact corresponding to each contact entry. Data entry box may include data entry field which provides a description of the particular details regarding how a user and a contact met. These details may for example include a date a time a location an event a communication or any combination therein which is associated with the initial meeting of the user and the contact. In some embodiments data entry box also includes data entry field which provides an indication of a third party who introduced the user and the contact. The third party may or may not be an additional contact of the user.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention the suggestion module may include an analysis module which receives each of the input signals from each of the member profile databases social graph databases and behavioural databases and analyzes them to determine the level of significance of each in providing a description of how the user initially met the contact. The signals analyzed by the analysis module may include for example educational background employment history calendar event notifications schedule history communication history e.g. e mail instant message chat social network messaging SMS telephone call social network connections social network connection timing social graph data other social network profile information and any other information discussed in reference to databases and .

Consistent with some embodiments each signal received by the suggestion module may be assigned a relative weight according to the level of significance. The level of significance assigned to each signal is dependent on several factors. With some embodiments these factors may include for example the relative timing of each piece of information and the respective relationships between each piece of information. For example information received from the member profile database and social graph data may indicate that the user and the contact both received a calendar event invitation to the same event and may further indicate that the user added the contact as a social network connection. In this example the analysis module may assign a greater weight to these pieces of information if the event and social network connection addition occurred within the same day rather than being separated by several months.

In some embodiments the level of significance assigned to each signal depends on the particular type of information for which the level of significance is being determined. For example employment history information received from the member profile database and social graph data may indicated that the user and the contact were both employed by the same employer in the past. In this example the analysis module may assign a lower weight to this piece of information if the employer has over 500 employees than if the employer had only 50 employees.

As illustrated by suggestion module may also include determination module operatively coupled to the analysis module . Using the level of significance of each signal as determined by the analysis module determination module determines a suggested description of how a user met a contact of the user. This suggestion is provided to a user via user interface module as a suggested entry to data entry field and optionally a further entry to data entry field of data entry box .

Determination module makes the determination of the suggested entry in response to one or more of the signals received from databases and exceeding a threshold level of significance. With some embodiments the threshold level of significance may be based for example on rules based module defined by heuristic methods used in inferring how a user met a contact. With other embodiments the level of significance may be based on the number of input signals received of the number of received input signals have any significance in determining how a user met a contact.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention the determination module may infer how the user met the contact using one or more of the signals received from the databases and that exceed the threshold level of significance. The signals used by the determination module in making the determination may include for example educational history employment history calendar event history communication history e.g. e mail instant message chat social network messaging SMS telephone call social network connections social network connection timing other social network profile information and any other information discussed in reference to databases and . For example the determination module may infer that the user met the contact while attending the same school if the user and the contact each have an email address having a domain name corresponding with the same school. In this example the determination module may also make the determination that the user and contact met each other while attending the same school if both the user and the contact have the same school listed in an education history field of a social network profile. In another example the determination module may determine that the user met the contact while both were employed at the same employer based on the user and the contact having the same employer listed in an employment history field of a profile of a social network. In this example the determination module may infer that the user and the contact met while working for the same employer if both the user and the contact belong to a group of users of a social network that the system determines to be a group of employees of an employer based on the social data associated with each member of the group. In yet another example the determination module may infer that the user met the contact while attending the same event if both the user and the contact received a calendar invitation to the same event and the user added the contact to the contact management system shortly after the date of the event. In still another example the determination module may infer that the user met the contact through some form of communication which was the communication between the contact and the user. In this example the communication may be an e.g. e mail instant message chat social network messaging SMS phone call.

In some embodiments the determination module may provide a suggestion of a third party who may have introduced the user and the contact if one or more of the signals exceeding the threshold is also associated with the third party. For example if a user and a contact first communicate through an email thread originally sent by a third party to the user the determination module may determine that the user and the contact met through the email. In this example the determination module may further infer that the third party who originally sent the email introduced the user and the contact.

At block the determination module determines a suggested entry to the data field of the contact management system responsive to at least one signal of the plurality of signals received from the databases and exceeding a threshold level of significance. The suggested entry to the data field of the contact management system to provide a description of how the user met the contact.

At block the user interface module may automatically provide display data to display the suggested entry of the data field of the contact management system determined by the determination module . According to some embodiments the user may then be given the ability to confirm reject or edit the description of how the user met the contact as presented in the suggested entry.

In an example embodiment data entry box includes data entry field which is a field designated to provide details of how and when a user initially met the contact corresponding to contact entry . Suggestion module may determine a suggested entry to be presented in data entry field by the user interface module . In this example embodiment the suggestion module has determined that the user may have met the contact while working for the same employer. Consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure the user may confirm the suggested entry by clicking save button . In another embodiment the user may edit suggested entry to provide a more accurate description of how the user initially met the contact. In yet another embodiment the user may completely reject suggested entry and provide the user s own description of the initial meeting of the contact in data entry field .

As illustrated in data entry box also includes data entry field which is designated to provide the name of a third party that may have introduced the user to the contact. In some embodiments the third party may be an additional contact of the user that may also have a corresponding contact entry maintained by the contact management system . The suggestion module may also provide the user with a suggested entry to identify the third party that introduced the contact to the user. Similar to suggested entry the user may confirm edit or reject this suggestion.

Consistent with aspects of this embodiment third party contacts may be tagged as a valued contact of the user if the third party contact has introduced the user to multiple other contacts. A third party contacts who regularly introduces the user to additional contacts may be tagged by the contact management system as a valued contact because of the high likelihood that the third party contact may again introduce the user to additional contacts that will be of value to the user. For example a third party contact who has introduced the user to several contacts many of whom have entered into a sales contract with the user may be tagged as a valued contact because the third party contact will likely introduce the user to additional contacts thus providing additional sales opportunities to the user.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

