---

title: System and method for analyzing messages in a network or across networks
abstract: Systems and methods for analyzing messages in a network or across networks are disclosed. In one aspect, embodiments of the present disclosure include a method, for detecting trends from a set of messages in a network or across networks, identifying, from the set of messages in the network or across networks, commonly or frequently occurring topics, computing statistical attributes for the commonly or frequently occurring topics in the set of messages that indicate respective levels of trendiness, and/or presenting, the commonly or frequently occurring topics as indicators in a user interface, the indicators being actionable to access additional information relating to a selected topic via the action. The messages include messages interacted with by humans or machines and interactions can include, posted a message, shared a message, liked a message, commented on a message, replied to a message, viewed a message, saved or bookmarked a message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614807&OS=09614807&RS=09614807
owner: BOTTLENOSE, INC.
number: 09614807
owner_city: Sherman Oaks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120223
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 446 001 filed Feb. 23 2011 and entitled INFORMATION STREAM PERSONALIZATION AND FILTERING 8001.US U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 449 033 filed Mar. 3 2011 and entitled INFORMATION STREAM PERSONALIZATION AND FILTERING 8001.US1 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 591 696 filed Jan. 27 2012 and entitled TRENDING OF PERSONALIZED INFORMATION STREAMS AND MULTI DIMENSIONAL GRAPHICAL DEPICTION THEREOF 8002.US U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 599 355 filed Feb. 15 2012 and entitled INTELLIGENT SOCIAL MEDIA STREAM FILTERING FOR BUSINESS PROCESS ENHANCEMENT 8004.US and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 600 553 entitled NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING OPTIMIZED FOR MICRO CONTENT filed Feb. 17 2012 8005.US the contents of which are incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed technology relates generally to analysis of messages and associated content in a network or across networks to retrieve useful information and in particular analysis of messages originating from or directed to online media services.

Through web based media services like Twitter and Facebook a user is exposed to a vast amount of messages from hundreds if not thousands of online sources and friends culminating in massive amounts of information overload. Because the distinctions between each social network are not entirely clear users feel obligated to juggle different applications and social networks just to keep up and be heard everywhere.

It would be one thing if all our social messages were part of a single pars able filtered stream. But instead they come from all different directions. The situation is aggravated by social streams that originate in many competing silos. Users or consumers spend nearly as much time hopping between networks as we do meaningfully digesting and engaging the content within. Furthermore the cross posting across networks further exacerbates the noise and redundancy of the various networks and services.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include systems and methods for analyzing messages in a network or across networks.

The client devices A N can be any system and or device and or any combination of devices systems that is able to establish a connection with another device a server and or other systems. Client devices A N each typically include a display and or other output functionalities to present information and data exchanged between among the devices A N and the host server .

For example the client devices can include mobile hand held or portable devices or non portable devices and can be any of but not limited to a server desktop a desktop computer a computer cluster or portable devices including a notebook a laptop computer a handheld computer a palmtop computer a mobile phone a cell phone a smart phone a PDA a Blackberry device a Treo a handheld tablet e.g. an iPad a Galaxy Xoom Tablet etc. a tablet PC a thin client a hand held console a hand held gaming device or console an iPhone and or any other portable mobile hand held devices etc. The input mechanism on client devices can include touch screen keypad including single touch multi touch gesture sensing in 2D or 3D etc. a physical keypad a mouse a pointer a track pad motion detector e.g. including 1 axis 2 axis 3 axis accelerometer etc. a light sensor capacitance sensor resistance sensor temperature sensor proximity sensor a piezoelectric device device orientation detector e.g. electronic compass tilt sensor rotation sensor gyroscope accelerometer or a combination of the above.

The client devices A N media service servers A N the respective networks of users A N a content server and or promotional content server can be coupled to the network and or multiple networks. In some embodiments the devices A N and host server may be directly connected to one another. The media services hosted by the media service servers A N can include any online or web based media services or networking services whereby a crowd or network of users contribute to the distribution of original or reposted content. These media services include for example Twitter Facebook Google Linkedin and any other sites services or platforms where users can share information and networks with other users.

In one embodiment the host server is operable to analyze streams or sets of messages in a network or across networks to extract statistics to determine useful data such as trends topics behaviors etc. The streams or sets of messages content can be the target of any online or network based activity some of which are illustrated in the example of . For example any message or content resulting from or as the basis of activities between users and a network resource e.g. content provider networking site media service provider online promoter etc. can be analyzed for which analytics can be used for various applications including content message personalization customization and filtering trend popularity detection on certain sites e.g. what s popular on Twitter in the last 2 hours across all sites or select sets of sites over a certain time period in a certain geographical locale e.g. in the United State as relating to a certain topic e.g. what s trending in sports right now etc. or a combination of the above. Additional applications include targeted advertising from a user driven facet platform driven facet timing facet delivery style presentation style facet advertiser facet or any combination of the above.

In general the host server operates in real time or near real time and is able to generate useful analytics statistics regarding network or online activity to detect current trends or predict upcoming trends for various applications. Delay time analytics and statistics can also be extracted in any specified timing window. In one embodiment message content analytics can also be used in generating unique user interfaces and UI features useful for displaying trends or popular topics types people content in an intuitive manner for navigation as illustrated and will be further described with reference to the screenshots of .

Functions and techniques performed by the host server and the components therein are described in detail with further references to the examples of .

In general network over which the client devices A N the host server and or various media service servers A N content server and or promotional content server communicate may be a cellular network a telephonic network an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet or any combination thereof. For example the Internet can provide file transfer remote log in email news RSS cloud based services instant messaging visual voicemail push mail VoIP and other services through any known or convenient protocol such as but is not limited to the TCP IP protocol Open System Interconnections OSI FTP UPnP iSCSI NSF ISDN PDH RS 232 SDH SONET etc.

The network can be any collection of distinct networks operating wholly or partially in conjunction to provide connectivity to the client devices and the host server and may appear as one or more networks to the serviced systems and devices. In one embodiment communications to and from the client devices can be achieved by an open network such as the Internet or a private network such as an intranet and or the extranet. In one embodiment communications can be achieved by a secure communications protocol such as secure sockets layer SSL or transport layer security TLS .

In addition communications can be achieved via one or more networks such as but are not limited to one or more of WiMax a Local Area Network LAN Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Personal area network PAN a Campus area network CAN a Metropolitan area network MAN a Wide area network WAN a Wireless wide area network WWAN enabled with technologies such as by way of example Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Personal Communications Service PCS Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service D Amps Bluetooth Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data 2G 2.5G 3G 4G IMT Advanced pre 4G 3G LTE 3GPP LTE LTE Advanced mobile WiMax WiMax 2 WirelessMAN Advanced networks enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE General packet radio service GPRS enhanced GPRS iBurst UMTS HSPDA HSUPA HSPA UMTS TDD 1xRTT EV DO messaging protocols such as TCP IP SMS MMS extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP real time messaging protocol RTMP instant messaging and presence protocol IMPP instant messaging USSD IRC or any other wireless data networks or messaging protocols.

The host server may include internally or be externally coupled to a user repository a user analytics repository a configuration data repository a customized stream repository an analytics repository and or a metadata repository . The repositories can store software descriptive data images system information drivers and or any other data item utilized by other components of the host server and or any other servers for operation. The repositories may be managed by a database management system DBMS for example but not limited to Oracle DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server PostgreSQL MySQL FileMaker etc.

The repositories can be implemented via object oriented technology and or via text files and can be managed by a distributed database management system an object oriented database management system OODBMS e.g. ConceptBase FastDB Main Memory Database Management System JDOlnstruments ObjectDB etc. an object relational database management system ORDBMS e.g. Informix OpenLink Virtuoso VMDS etc. a file system and or any other convenient or known database management package.

In some embodiments the host server is able to provide data to be stored in the user repository the user analytics repository the configuration data repository the customized stream repository the analytics repository and or the metadata repository . The user repository and or user analytics repository can store user information user profile information demographics information analytics statistics regarding consumed content and posted content user influence usage trends trending topics search terms search trends user response rates topics of interest online activity profile topics of expertise social relationships friends on various networks or online media sites social statistics growth in friends change in influence level of sentiment or trust about them from others where they fit in the social graph who they are related to who they are similar to etc.

One embodiment further includes the assistant configuration data repository which can store rule sets which specify actions to be performed on a message based on a detected condition or sets of conditions for a given user or users meeting certain criteria etc. The rule sets can be user defined or machine created e.g. from machine learning user behavior or aggregate user behavior to customize the way messages and content from various sources are organized and presented to a user or groups of users. The customized stream repository can store streams of messages or content that is personalized or customized to individual users including streams with liked content filtered content categorized based on topic type content associated users people related sites or sources and or prioritized content based on relevance or importance.

One embodiment further includes the analytics repository which can store analytics or statistical data regarding messages content websites searches media network activity or any online or network activity surrounding messages content people events online media sites social media sites content providers any other third party services or online services etc. The metadata repository stores metadata for online content and messages. The metadata can be machine annotated or user annotated and can include both static and or dynamic metadata which specifies semantic type or attributes of messages or other content.

Specifically the metadata can be extracted or attached to messages content in or across networks by the host server . Metatdata can also include formatting and display information such as a custom avatar image background layout font choice stylesheet or CSS attributes. Message metadata can be extended by plug ins as well enabling additional layers of metadata and functionality to be added to messages via the host server .

Additional details of examples of types of data stored in repositories are illustrated with further reference to database entries shown in examples of .

Actions can include by way of example but not limitation posted replied to reposted received liked annotated read saved favorited bookmarked viewed deleted tagged commented tweeted linked searched for etc. Messages and or content can generally include messages associated with video content messages associated audio content and messages associated photos any message interacted with by humans or machines user profiles user events user likes or dislikes status updates mentions news news feeds current events breaking news tweets messages associated links notes web pages documents email messages comments chat messages logs SMS messages etc.

Messages or content can be sent between a network of users A of a content source A A e.g. an online networking site or other content sharing networking sites or be the subject of online activity by users A of the online site of content source A A. The messages and or content analyzed can also be transmitted between sites e.g. source A A and source B B .

The messages and or content can include messages acted upon between a user A and a social network of user A messages between a social network of users A and a different online network site e.g. content source A messages acted upon between the host and a content source e.g. content source B B messages content between a network of users B e.g. users of Facebook or Twitter and host server messages content acted upon between users of different online networks e.g. B and N or messages content between any user N e.g. a user who is not necessarily part of a given social network or any social network and a source N N or content messages between any user N directly to the host .

The host server can include for example a network interface a user profiling engine a message analysis engine a scoring engine a user interface engine an information stream personalization engine a user assistance agent and or a content targeting engine . Additional or less components modules engines can be included in the host server and each illustrated component.

The network interface can be a networking module that enables the host server to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the host server through any known and or convenient communications protocol supported by the host and the external entity. The network interface can include one or more of a network adaptor card a wireless network interface card e.g. SMS interface WiFi interface interfaces for various generations of mobile communication standards including but not limited to 1G 2G 3G 3.5G 4G LTE etc. Bluetooth a router an access point a wireless router a switch a multilayer switch a protocol converter a gateway a bridge bridge router a hub a digital media receiver and or a repeater.

As used herein a module a manager an agent a tracker a handler a detector an interface or an engine includes a general purpose dedicated or shared processor and typically firmware or software modules that are executed by the processor. Depending upon implementation specific or other considerations the module manager tracker agent handler or engine can be centralized or its functionality distributed. The module manager tracker agent handler or engine can include general or special purpose hardware firmware or software embodied in a computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor.

As used herein a computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium is intended to include all mediums that are statutory e.g. in the United States under 35 U.S.C. 101 and to specifically exclude all mediums that are non statutory in nature to the extent that the exclusion is necessary for a claim that includes the computer readable storage medium to be valid. Known statutory computer readable mediums include hardware e.g. registers random access memory RAM non volatile NV storage to name a few but may or may not be limited to hardware.

One embodiment of the host server includes the user profiling engine . The user profiling engine can be any combination of software agents and or hardware modules e.g. including processors and or memory units able to detect aggregate generate create predict retrieve determine identity user interests and creating a profile from the user s interests based from a user s online or network based activities.

The user profiling engine can for example determine the interests of a user without requiring any interaction other than to provide an online identity e.g. Twitter or Facebook username or other online sites . The user profiling engine can generate an interest profile e.g. via the interest profile generator with a list of concepts topics that are of interest to a user. The concepts that are listed may be weighted e.g. by the weighting engine in accordance with level of relevance or level of interest to the user. For example if a user is interested in the company Microsoft as detected from his her feeds status updates messages emails etc. this word can appear in that profile and it can be further weighted based on a level of interest as compared to other concepts topics in the user s interest profile.

The user profile further includes an activity analyzer which detects various user activities online for use in analyzing user behavior to detect identify user interests in generating the interest profile. The activities that can be detected and analyzed include by way of example posted a message shared a message liked a message favorited a message tagged a message annotated a message rated a message and commented on the message replied to the message viewed the message saved or bookmarked the message.

The activities can also include activities social relationships relating to other users as detected or analyzed by a social relationships analyzer of the user profiling engine . For example people parameters of people who interacted with a message people who a user is friends with or connected to followed people following people people who follow specified other people people with a certain social influence level geographical parameters of the people membership or group affiliation degrees of separation screen name of an author author follower count author following count author average messages per day.

User interests can be detected by the interest detector by analyzing user content provided in the online activity at or via the online media services the user content including user submitted content or user generated content. The interests of the user can also be determined from other users with whom the user is connected or is friends in the online media services.

The statistics extraction engine reviews the results of the analysis and extracts quantitative information about the user and the associated interests. In one embodiment the interests of the user are represented by concepts weighted according to analysis of user content which is subject of the online activities at the online media services an example of which is illustrated in a data entry for user analytics shown in . Weights can be assigned by the weighting engine based on results of activity and message analysis.

The statistics or any qualitative data computed as a function of time in a given time period or in real time can be used to detect trends e.g. via the trending engine potential trends or upcoming trends from any set of messages or online activity. For example sets of messages relating to a given user can be analyzed to identify trends in the user s interest. Messages content relating to a given platform can be analyzed to detect what is popular on that site right now. Messages content relating to a specific topic e.g. sports can be analyzed to identify what s currently popular or trending in sports news.

Concepts or topics can be identified from messages by the message analysis engine through natural language processing e.g. by the natural language processing engine . The identified concepts or topics can be used to build a user s interest profile or to determine the related concepts ideas of a given message or piece of content to further determine appropriate action. When using message analysis to build an interest profile for a given user the following steps can be performed 

1 Retrieve messages acted on e.g. written liked commented etc. by user X. 2 For each message detect language tokens e.g. semi colons comma s whitespaces others etc. and identify social network tokens e.g. hash tags tags tags or other tags URLs URIs usernames emoticons micro syntax etc. . 3 For each message assign part of speech tags to words using for example a dictionary e.g. noun adjective verb pronoun unknown . 4 Collect nouns pronouns and or unknown words from all messages and take the most frequently occurring N words. 5 Refine optimize this list of words by omitting common words and written expressions using dictionaries. The resulting interest profile will have a list of words. Each word can be assigned a weighting which is based on how often that word occurred in user X s online activity.

In general the above analysis process can be applied to any set of messages to retrieve a list of words which can represent the common or frequently occurring topics themes concepts places people or things etc. Such detection can be used to detect identify predict determine trends upcoming trends and or popular topics themes concepts from any set of messages. The set of messages can be relating those across multiple platforms services e.g. all messages content activity on Twitter Facebook and Linkedin in the last 10 hours across a given platform service e.g. all activity on Twitter in the last 2 hours across one or more platforms services in a given geographical local e.g. all activity on Twitter Facebook in San Francisco across one or more platforms services for a given user or a specific group of users across one or more platform services as pertaining to a specific topic e.g. US Open NBA etc. or any combination of the above parameters.

For example a user can choose to detect trends in activities for people or a group of users that he follows on Twitter or to access trends from last week. Changes in trends can also be determined the strength of a given trend e.g. how rapidly some topic concept is becoming popular can also be computed by performing quantitative analysis on messages content and other activities occurring across a single network or multiple networks and any number of social media platforms.

In one embodiment the concepts that are detected can be filtered optimized from messages content through disambiguation of a given keyword having multiple meanings e.g. via the word disambiguation engine . For example the word Java has multiple meanings contexts including for example Java the island in Indonesia is it Java the programming language. In this instance disambiguation processes can be performed to determine which meaning of the word is applicable.

In some instances disambiguation can be performed by analyzing the surrounding words in the sentence that the word occurred in. In this example the surrounding sentence could be I m traveling to Java next week. VS I was programming Java all day which allows a system to decide the correct definition of the word.

In one embodiment when the user profiling engine builds an interest profile for the user all words that are found are generally of interest to a user. So for this collection of words the word disambiguation engine can use the user or the rest of the messages as a context to disambiguate the meaning of the words. For example in one embodiment a large dictionary of known words and related categories can be locally stored externally accessed queried. For example the dictionary can be synthesized by combining an encyclopedia s e.g. Wikipedia or other databases list of topics with the categories those topics belong to.

For messages content pertaining to a user X or for any given set of messages there are a list of words P that need to be disambiguated. For each word in this list all possible meanings can be retrieved. In this example this would be Java programming language Java the island . In one embodiment for each meaning of each word a list of all related categories can be determined and stored. In our example this would be Programming Computing Programming Languages etc. and Indonesia Asia Country Geography .

For the words in P it can then be determined those categories that are most frequently occurring. This can be performed by counting and tracking the occurrences of each category across the words in list P. In one embodiment the amount of category occurrences can then be used to assign a score to each meaning of each word. In this example if Programming occurred multiple times the meaning Java programming language will get a higher score. Therefore making this the most correct meaning of the word Java in a set of messages pertaining to user X or any given set of messages.

In addition in one embodiment message analysis includes using information about the message source to detect and retrieve relevant information. For example additional information about messages can be determined by retrieving and analyzing data for relevant URLs which host the message or content. In one embodiment each URL or other types of content sources for a set of messages can be analyzed to retrieve and store the information. In addition browser extension e.g. bookmarklets can be used to facilitate this.

For example browser extensions can be provided to the users to share pages that they like when browsing the internet. In the background however without bothering the user this extension can analyze the page extract relevant meta data e.g. title description author popularity type fields media etc. . The extracted information about the content source e.g. URI or URL can be sent to the host and stored in a repository e.g. the metadata repository .

The scoring engine can determine the relevance of any message piece of content to a given concept theme trend topic person place etc. The computed relevance of content message to a concept can be used for various applications including placement of the content message site person timing etc. retrieval of the content message when relevant e.g. when a search is conducted for the topic or a related topic when a related topic is queried or selected when the topic itself if queried or selected placement of promotional content relevance to a group of users personalization of message streams for users through filtering and prioritization etc.

In one embodiment the scoring engine can generate a score by matching message content against an interest profile or one or more concepts topics themes. The interest profile may be for a specific user or for a specific group of users or just for any given context. The matching can be performed by the matching engine by performing natural language processing to extract relevant concepts from the message or other content. These relevant concepts are then assigned a score by the scoring engine based on for example the frequency with which a word occurs in a given interest profile e.g. by the frequency and weight analyzer and any associated weighting of the occurred word inside the interest profile how interesting is that to the user or the query being made which is represented by the interest profile . In some instances more than two occurrences or more can progressively increase the score.

In one embodiment the scoring engine modifies or determines the relevancy score based on any reposts e.g. via the repost analyzer . For example the repost analyzer can compute or otherwise determine the number of times a given post or message occurred in other messages coming from connections or friends relevant to a given context e.g. people in a certain user group people with certain interest people connected friends with a given user etc. . In order to compute the score based on reposts the number of similar messages can be determined. However in general when users repost a message they often modify the original message to make it fit within a certain character limit. Therefore simply finding messages with the same text might yield poor results since exact messages will only be found in limited numbers.

As such for a reposted message R a search needs to be done across all stored messages M. If there is a match the Repost Score can be incremented and a similarity link can be stored by the repost scoring engine. In one embodiment this can be performed by retrieving all stored messages M and compare each M to R and identifying the M that had the most words in the sentence that matched. In another embodiment a database full text OR search can be performed with all words in the sentence of R. Then rank the results according to the number of keywords that matched and select the top matching results as similar messages.

In one embodiment for a reposted message R a natural language processing tool can be used to extract words keywords symbols and or tokens for that message. The words keywords can include but are not limited to Nouns Proper Nouns and Adjectives the tokens include but are not limited to URLs hashtags user names emoticons or other symbols. The repost analyzer can then sorted and packed the tokens and or keywords words together into a repost index RI which can be generated for each message in M. The Repost Score can now be determined by performing a single database lookup on RI in M. Such a query is resource and time efficient since it is an exact match on a database field that can be indexed a second time via database queries.

In some instances content source occurrence frequency can also be factored in e.g. determined by the source occurrence counter to compute the score. For example one message piece of content may be more relevant if it is also from a source e.g. as identified by a URL URI with some determined prior relevance to a context e.g. a specific set of users a topic etc. . The score can be increased if the source is frequently occurring. The source occurrence counter can compute how many times the URL in a message occurred in messages relevant to a given context e.g. from friends or connections of a given user or people that the user is following etc. .

One application of concept idea theme detection and trend identification is personalization of a message stream for a user. In one embodiment personalized message streams can be created by filtering prioritizing various messages for the user by the information stream personalization engine . The personalization engine can use a score generated by the scoring engine to determine relevance to a user interest to a given user based on any specified criteria e.g. within sports news tech news within the last week etc. . Based on the score with respect to any facet or context the messages can be filtered by the filtering engine and prioritized by the engine such that a personalized customized stream of messages can be created and presented to a user.

In one embodiment one example of a personalized customized stream of messages for a user is a likestream or a stream of messages content that the user likes or might like determined by explicit preferences or implicit preferences. For example the host server can provide a mechanism by which users may explicitly or implicitly like particular messages or people. By liking something a user explicitly tells the application that it is of interest. The host e.g. the personalization engine then assembles a directory of the things the user likes. Within this directory each faceted view can be referred to as a likestream of things e.g. messages audio content video content or any other content that are liked by some set of users such as a single user or even a community or group such as people within an organization .

For each user x a faceted directory hierarchy can be generated dynamically that contains all their implicitly or explicitly liked messages and or people. This directory includes sub directories each itself a likestream for various semantic types of messages liked by user x. For example a typical likestream directory can include one or more of 

Implicitly liked messages for user x may include any all messages that user x has authored replied to reposted saved or shared. User x may also explicitly liked messages or people by taking an action to like them in the application. In one embodiment rating scales for likes can be provided such that users can indicate the degree to which they dislike or like an item.

In one embodiment Likestreams can be subscribed to by other users who are subscribers of the host service or users of other platforms e.g. users of other social media networks . For example when user x views the likestream for user y it is possible for them to subscribe to it as a stream or interest. By subscribing to a likestream it appears as a stream with a corresponding editable rule definition in user x s main dashboard alongside other streams they can track generated by other rule definitions . User x may opt to subscribe to user y s top level root likestream or they can navigate directory facets to reach sub level likestreams that match a specific patterns for example a likestream of only the videos or only the news articles that user y likes .

In one embodiment Likestreams enable users to follow facets of people they are interested instead of everything those people post. This enables users to filter their message streams for only the kinds of messages they want from various people. When adding a likestream for another user y user x automatically follows user y so that they can get their messages although in a variation of this feature it is also possible to subscribe to a likestream without following the originator of the likestream.

In addition Likestreams can also be browsed and searched both by their owners and by anyone with permission to view them and in such capacity they provide a means to aggregate and discover knowledge. Messages may have specific permissions associated with them which govern which users may take which actions on the message including for example 

In one embodiment likestreams can also be generated for sets of people such as groups lists or communities of people. For example a likestream or any customized personalized stream of messages could be generated for the set of all people a user follows or just for all people tagged as friends or family. A likestream can also be generated for all people who share specific attributes such as interests relevance to specific topics geolocations or affiliations. In one embodiment a likestream can also be generated for all members of the hosted service or for all members of any social network. In general likestreams can display messages chronologically and or ranked by the degree to which they are liked and or the number of people who like them.

The user interface engine can customize the presentation of messages or content based on a given context with may be user or administrator specified. For example the user interface can present topics or trend relating to tech news or elections. The user interface can also be configured to present messages content in a personalized manner based on implicit and or explicit user interests and or preferences. In one embodiment the visualization engine creates a graphical visualization of concepts or topics contained in the messages content based on a given facet e.g. the context may be topic concept driven user driven location driven platform driven or based on any other facet with each concept or topic is represented by a label which is arranged radially from a node e.g. as generated by the interactive concept view generator . Around this facet represented by the common node there are connected topics keywords and tags all of which are relevant to that facet in a certain configurable specifiable timeframe minutes days weeks .

The graphical visualization can be interactive where responsive to detection of selection or activation of the label information related to the represented concept or topic can be further depicted in the graphical visualization. The user interface engine can also update the graphical visualization continuously or periodically e.g. in real time or near real time such that the depicted trends popularity or relevance levels to various facets users are current. The graphical visualization can also be manipulated to plot and depict past trends at or around a certain time or within a past time period. In general each node has a different visual style color edge thickness etc. which is based on how interesting and relevant the node is to a facet or a user when creating a personalized graph of concepts for a user . When clicking a node it will show related topics tags and keywords and it will display related messages content in a new window or side panel as illustrated in the example screenshots of .

In one embodiment the host server can provide mechanisms to reward users for certain social media behaviors and achievements.

Rewards can be provided in many forms virtual currency such as points for use in the services hosted by server facebook credits etc. coupons or gift cards physical goods and services or physical currency or in the form of digital achievement badges or increases in a user s status visibility influence or relevance to others in the hosted network and or any other networks.

In addition to gaining points users may also lose points if they do things that are considered unwanted or harmful to the system such as 

The host server represents any one or a portion of the functions described for the modules. The host server can include additional or less modules. More or less functions can be included in whole or in part without deviating from the novel art of the disclosure. The repositories and were discussed in conjunction with the description of .

The user assistance engine can further include a semantic rule manager an annotation manager a recommendation engine a machine learning engine a social influence enhancement engine and or a subscription manager.

As used herein a module a manager an agent a tracker a handler a detector an interface or an engine includes a general purpose dedicated or shared processor and typically firmware or software modules that are executed by the processor. Depending upon implementation specific or other considerations the module manager tracker agent handler or engine can be centralized or its functionality distributed. The module manager tracker agent handler or engine can include general or special purpose hardware firmware or software embodied in a computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor.

As used herein a computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium is intended to include all mediums that are statutory e.g. in the United States under 35 U.S.C. 101 and to specifically exclude all mediums that are non statutory in nature to the extent that the exclusion is necessary for a claim that includes the computer readable storage medium to be valid. Known statutory computer readable mediums include hardware e.g. registers random access memory RAM non volatile NV storage to name a few but may or may not be limited to hardware.

The semantic rule manager provides a rules interface and engine to manage create implement revise and or optimize the rules which facilitate customized application specific user specific use specific manipulation processing retrieval filtering prioritizing of messages and any content in a given network across networks or across any number of different online media sites or platforms. The rules can be defined by a user by a platform a media site the host server a platform partnering with the host an organization or any other consumer or business entity. In one embodiment the rule set is specified by the user or other types of entities via a user interface provided by the service which is independent of the online or web based media services. Based on the set of rules the manager can cause the server to perform an action on an incoming message in accordance with a rule set to process the incoming messages. One example of an action is the likestream comprised of messages implicitly or explicitly liked by the user as defined by the rule set described in the example of .

The rules managed and tracked by the manager can be defined to perform actions on messages content based on one or more specified criteria. The rules can be defined or specified by the rules definition engine and can include application actions such as annotating a message reposting a message notifying a user making a recommendation to a user launching another application presenting with increased or decreased visibility or taking some other action. In some instances the rules are automatically determined by default or automatically created by observing and learning system or user behavior e.g. by the rules learning engine as will be further described with reference to the machine learning engine .

The criteria can also be specified defined tracked or updated revised by the rules definition engine and can include by way of example not limitation if messages is received acted upon via one or more of the following services and or message was any or all of posted replied to reposted received liked annotated read saved tagged etc. by any or all of one or more specific people people I follow people who follow me people who follow some person people with Klout score x people near some geographic place people checked into some present activity members of a list any bottlenose user people who have some attribute people who do not have some attribute or any person etc. In general the rules and criteria may take many features of messages actions and relationships and any combination of the above into account.

The rule sets can be created and applied to create robots or assistance which can identify and customize message content streams for any application setting context or facet. An example table showing example rules sets to configure these assistants is illustrated in the example of .

One feature of the host server is the ability to support machine learning creation generation of rules of the ma chine learning engine from observing tracking identifying detecting revising and updating explicit and or implicit user preferences feedback from user specifications and or behavior e.g. by the user behavior analyzer .

Many learning rules are possible within the application framework including by way of example but not limitation 

In addition through the host server anyone can mark any message as having any semantic type or attributes. This may eventually result in some percentage of miscategorized messages. The server may be configured to leverage collaborative filtering in order to curate messages and detect and filter out errors e.g. via the collaborative curator of the machine learning engine .

1. When user a marks item P as type x then it shows up as type x for that user only no matter what even if other people disagree .

2. Types added to item by the item s author are innocent until proven guilty They automatically show up for the crowd until and unless n non authors of item subsequently disagree by unmarking type x from item. If the item is unmarked by the crowd then x doesn t show up on item for anyone other than author anymore. In other words the author s types show up for everyone but are removed for everyone other than the author if enough people disagree.

3. Types added to item by non authors of item are guilty until proven innocent. If m non authors of item mark item as type x then x shows up for everyone. In other words there must be some agreement before an item will show up as type x for people other than the person who marks it as x. One exception is of course if the author marks the item as x in which case see 2 .

4. The variables n and m the thresholds for disagreement and agreement can be changed dynamically to adjust the curation thresholds.

Another aspect of machine learning or learning from the user crowd is leveraging message annotations by users e.g. via the annotation manager . For example if a user shares a message with a URL to the Youtube website the server can based on various analysis techniques determine that the message is associated with a video. In some instances the user can be queried to assist in determining what a message relates to. For example the host server e.g. via the annotation manager can query a user when it is posting a new message reposting an existing message liking an existing message or otherwise acting on some message or content.

Once the message has one or more types associated with it as tracked by the annotation tracking engine the server now has the ability to better provide better filtering of that message or related similar messages content all other users. For example if user A and user B have a filter specified for receiving messages that are marked as News there could be a message M that has no type associated with it. When user A likes the message and assigns the type News to it then the message will be filtered as News for both user A and user B.

In addition to enabling manual annotation of messages content by users rules can be generated which are capable of automatically annotating messages e.g. by the auto annotator with metadata when the messages match specific patterns such as originating from specific URLs or URL fragments containing specific keywords being posted or authored by specific parties containing specific strings.

In addition by analyzing sets of manually annotated messages new annotation rules can be automatically derived and optimized over time e.g. by the annotation learning engine that generalize from collective annotation behavior. For example if a community of users consistently annotate messages containing pattern x as being of semantic type y then a rule can learn to make such an annotation automatically when a high enough degree of evidence is accumulated to have sufficient confidence in what has been learned.

In one embodiment the host server includes the ability to recommend online actions e.g. including identification of online messages content that facilitates enhancement of social influence by a user or any other entity e.g. business entity organization application idea concept or theme . In one embodiment the host server through the social influence enhancement engine can add an additional indicator e.g. an influence weight indicator to detected tracked stored and or analyzed messages content. This weighting or indicator resulting in an overview identifying messages content that can be reposted by the user or some other physical entity such as a corporation or physical entity representing some ideology to gain more network influence. The social influence enhancement engine can also recommend certain actions in addition to posting reposting messages e.g. liking posts friending certain people or entities commenting on certain messages content which can also result in enhancement of social influence of a user or entity.

In one embodiment the engine computes the weighting by looking at the strength of a friend connection and the number of friends of that friend. Also more sophisticated influence information is gathered by integrating with influence metric services like Klout.com. By measuring the relevance of a message to the interests of a user s followers an algorithm can determine whether the message should be reposted. By measuring historical diffusion of similar messages in a social network the algorithm may estimate to what degree a particular message might spread further via a person s followers and may also recommend what times of day it should be posted in order to attain the maximum attention and spread.

In one embodiment the server provides auto reposting capabilities for messages content e.g. via the auto reposting engine based on conditions or criteria that is user configured auto configured or determined by any other third party services interests.

For example the auto reposting engine can provide a variation of Auto RP in where certain messages are recommended for repost. The user or some other entity can then decide to repost the message or dismiss it. The criteria for auto reposting or recommending a message piece of content for repost or for recommending that some other action be performed can be based on multiple scores. These can include by way of example but not limitation 

Formulas that include the above criteria and or others can generate a cumulative score for the message content or some other related action with respect to a network activity on a media site. A threshold may be defined such that if the score crosses the threshold then a recommendation to repost a message is made. Users may opt to configure the auto repost engine to repost qualifying messages automatically or to simply recommend them so that they can choose to repost them manually.

In one embodiment the auto reposting engine can learn reposting rules for specific users or entities or other contexts for example by analyzing which messages they have reposted in the past in order to develop statistical models and or pattern rules that can infer when to repost a new message. For example if a user x has often reposted messages by another user y in the past then the probability weight that they should repost any new message by user y in the future is increased. Similarly by analyzing the features of such messages the times of day and the social relationships between user x and y the precision of such rules can be adjusted and further optimized.

One embodiment of the host server further includes a friend casting engine which provides a default Friendcasting Assistant . This assistant allows a user x to specify rules that will automatically repost a message from another user under certain conditions. For example a user x can define that all messages that match a pattern y such as having a certain hashtag like cast tag tag and or containing certain keywords or strings or URLs and or originating from a user u that matches whitelist W will be automatically reposted by user x. This enables people to request that their friends repost particular messages by simply attaching the appropriate hash tag such as cast or tag or other tags to their messages instead of having to make a direct request for a repost via a message to each person.

The recommendation engine can using the output of the annotation manger the machine learning engine and or the influence enhancement engine and make the appropriate recommendations to a user entity or any other party or representative accessing the services features of the host server . The recommendations can include rule action sets defining assistants which are use application context and or user specific recommended or suggested annotations based on observation of system and or user actions behaviors recommendations of actions including posts comments reposts of content messages which may enhance social influence of a user or any entity party representative concept theme organization.

The semantic rule set can be specified to configure assistants to customize media content messages or activities from one or more media sources e.g. social media sites or platforms to be optimally presented for various applications. For example one assistant can be configured to aggregate and show all posts across multiple media sites by a popular figure e.g. Mitt Romney one assistance can be configured to show all posts on Twitter relating to an entity e.g. the Boston Celtics or the World Trade Center site in a given time frame assistants can also be configured to filter and show content relating to certain users or posted acted on by certain users e.g. select users who are members of a group or certain select users that specified according to some other criteria .

Multiple assistants can be created from different rule sets such that multiple content or message streams are generated for different applications. Each rule set can implement one or a combination of conditions e.g. as shown in sets an and when the condition s are met any number of the actions x can be performed.

The action x can include for example any number of such actions as show me the message in a particular view or stream adjust the relevance or visibility of the message play a specific sound alert me by email alert me by SMS generate a desktop alert highlight the message automatically annotate or tag the message repost the message delete the message hide the message file the message reply to the message translate the message change the personalization score of the message save the message add the message to my interests add the author of the message to my interests share the message launch a plugin or another application call a function send the message to another application export the message as data view the message in a specific viewer learn something from the message etc.

In process user credentials to one of the online media services are received. In process online activity of the user is automatically detected from those activities of the user on or via the online media services. In general the online activity of the user is automatically detected without requiring additional interaction or input from the user for example once login credentials are received. For example the interests of the user can be automatically determined upon receipt of user credentials to one of the online media services e.g. Twitter Facebook Yelp Yammer Linkedin etc. .

In general the online activities which can be detected include any user interaction with content on or via the online media services. Content which can be interacted with can include user profiles user events user likes or dislikes status updates mentions feeds tweets links notes video content audio content news logs text messages photos web pages documents email messages comments chat messages etc.

In process the interests of the user from online activity of the user are determined from Flow A illustrated in . In one embodiment from the determined interest personalization indicators are generated for each of the incoming messages in the stream received from the online media services in process . The personalization indicators assigned for the incoming messages correspond to relevancy of the message to interests of the user. In process the incoming messages which are more interesting to the user are determined using the personalization indicators.

Based on the interests in process visibility of those incoming messages which are more interesting to the user is increased among other incoming messages in the stream for presentation in a user interface. In one embodiment the user interface is a part of a platform which is independent of any of the online media services. In one embodiment the interests of the user are represented by concepts weighted according to analysis of user content which is subject of the online activities at the online media services. The user content which is subject of the online activities includes one or more of user liked content user disliked content user status updates user posted content user shared content saved content content favorited by the user and user tweets.

In process an interactive graphical visualization of concepts or topics contained in the messages is customized for the user. In one embodiment each concept or topic is represented by a label which is arranged radially from a node in the graphical visualization. In one embodiment a radial distance of the label with the node is determined by a level of interest of the user in the concept or topic. In one embodiment graphical characteristics of the label or edges connecting the label to the node are adjusted based on a level of interest of the user in the concept or topic determined using the personalization indicators.

In one embodiment the graphical visualization is interactive and responsive to detection of selection or activation of the label information related to the represented concept or topic is further depicted in the graphical visualization. Further information related to the represented concept or topic is depicted in the interactive graphical visualization upon detected interaction with the label. The information further related can include for example one or more of related topics related tags or related keywords. In general graphical visualization can be updated continuously or periodically in accordance with an adjustable timeframe such that the popularity of concepts or topics are current and up to date. For example labels representing each concept or topic corresponds are sized according to frequency or number of occurrence of the concept or topic. The size and or placement radial distance of the labels are dynamic to represent how popular the represented concept topic theme person is in real time or near real time. Past time or delay time popularity trends can also be queried and charted in the interactive graphical visualization. The graphical visualization is illustrated in the example screenshots of . Note that the graphical visualization can be created by a platform independent of any of the online media services through which users interact.

In process user content provided in the online activity at or via the online media services is analyzed. Through the process illustrated at Flow C in concepts are identified from the user content using keywords that occur in the user content in process . In process weighted concepts are generated by determining frequencies with which keywords occur in the user content.

In process the weighted concepts are used to represent relative strength of each of the interests of the user.

Similarly in process from a user s online activities the other users with whom the user is connected or is friends in the online media services are identified. In process other users with whom the user interacts in the online media services are also identified. In process an interest profile can be generated for the user using the identified concepts and the identified other users or connections.

In process natural language processing is performed on the user content. In process language tokens and social network tokens in the user content. The natural language tokens can include for example one or more of hashtags tags tags URLs user names and emoticons In process part of speech tags e.g. noun adjective verb pronoun unknown are assigned to words in the user content.

In process the most frequently occurring N words are selected. In process the list of words is refined by omitting common words and written expressions. In addition in process disambiguation of a given keyword is performed. In process a set of keywords are collected for a user. In process concept category occurrences of the keywords are complied. In process scores are assigned to each of the multiple meanings of the given keyword based on occurrence frequency. In process the scores are used to select a meaning of the given keyword. In process the concepts are detected through disambiguation of a given keyword having multiple meanings. In process the concepts are identified in the user content to determine user interest from the natural language processing and or via the disambiguation techniques.

In process a personalization indicator is assigned to a message to be presented in the information stream for the user. The personalization indicator for the message generally corresponds to relevancy of the message to interests preferences of the user and can include a quantitative or qualitative indicator. User interests can be determined by analyzing user content provided in the online activity at or via the social networking service by for example identifying concepts from the user content using keywords that occur in the user content through the processes described in the examples of . Note that keyword scan include single words a string of words or a phrase. Keywords can also include a tag hash tag tag tags etc. a username or a name a resource identifier such as a URL or URI.

In general the user content can include user submitted content and or user generated content. Weighted concepts can be generated by determining frequencies with which keywords occur in the user content where concepts corresponding to more frequently occurring keywords are assigned higher weights. An interest profile for the user can be created using the weighted concepts to represent relative strength of each of the interests of the user.

In one embodiment the personalization indicator is assigned to the message by performing one or more of comparing message content against the interests of the user identifying connections of the user who have interacted with the message and or identifying connections of the user who have interacted with content from a URL or URL fragment associated with the message.

In one embodiment the identifying the connections of the user who have interacted with the message includes one or more of posted the message shared the message liked the message favorited the message tagged a message annotated a message rated a message commented on the message replied to the message viewed the message saved or bookmarked the message.

In one embodiment personalization indicators are also generated for each of the messages in an information stream where the messages are received from multiple social networking services.

In process visual placement of the message among the messages in the information stream is determined using the personalization indicator. In process visibility of messages which are more interesting to the user are increased among the messages in the information stream using the personalization indicator.

In process the message is presented among the messages in the information stream in a platform that is independent of the social networking service. Note that the platform can be web based and accessed via a browser. The platform can also be accessed via a desktop application or a mobile application accessed from a mobile portable device such as a smartphone PDA tablet or other portable hand held devices.

In process the interests of a user are determined from online activity of the user with respect to the content sharing service e.g. directly or indirectly interacting with content via the content sharing service . For example the online activity of the user is from activity on the content sharing service e.g. a user posting on Facebook or another site or on other online sharing services e.g. a user Tweeting whose Tweets are also posted on Facebook or another site .

In one embodiment the online activity includes web page browsing detected by a browser extension. When used the browser extension can analyze the web page and extract the relevant metadata. The addition the metadata can be sent to a repository either central or distributed for future use in personalizing streams for the user or other users. For example the user s browser e.g. part of a user interface component of a platform for behavior and message analysis can compute and extract webpage or content analysis information for the content or pages viewed accessed by the user. The computed data or extracted metadata can be stored for subsequent use either for the same user or for other users.

In general the metadata can include information about the content source e.g. a given website or web page and can also include annotations such as the semantic type and attributes of a message as well as formatting and display information such as a custom avatar image background layout font choice stylesheet or CSS attributes. Message metadata can be extended by plugins as well enabling additional layers of metadata and functionality to be added to messages via the platform

In process meanings or context surrounding a message to be presented among the information stream for the user are identified through an example process D illustrated in . In one embodiment the meaning or context surrounding the content is determined from associated metadata which can identify for example an ontology type of the message or content geolocation information manual annotations contributed by any user or other users e.g. who may be of the same platform the same content sharing service or other content sharing services as further described in the example flow of . The content identified can include one or more of video content audio content news breaking news popular content content relating to certain people opinions business news sports news and technology news.

In generally ontology types can include by way of example but not limitation a message content type a media content type a marketplace content type or a knowledge content type. The message content type identified includes one or more of an event humor an invitation news a note a notification and a status. The media content type identified can include one or more of animation audio collections documents a game a map a picture publication software video and websites. The marketplace content type identified can include one or more of advertisements offers wanted products and services. The knowledge content type identified can include one or more of a factoid a how to an opinion a Q A and a quotation.

In process the meanings or the context surrounding the message in relation to the interests of the user are determined. In process visibility of the message among other messages in the information stream to be presented to the user is increased or decreased by for example using the meanings or the context surrounding the content in relation to the interests of the user.

In one embodiment the visibility of the content is increased or decreased for presentation in a user interface component of a third party platform independent from the content sharing service. In some instances the interests of the user and the meanings or the context surrounding the content are also determined by the same platform.

In process interaction of the other users with the message is detected. In process the other users are prompted to provide the annotations. In process a set of rules are applied to the message. In process the message is machine annotated. The set of rules applied to a message can include criteria based on for example one or more of a pattern of the message a keyword contained in the message a regular expression contained in the message and a string contained in the message. The set of rules can further include criteria based on one or more of a source of the content as identified by a URL or URL fragment an author or poster of the content.

In process metadata associated with the message can be generated from the annotations. In process annotation rules are automatically derived from the manual annotations. In process the annotation rules are optimized or revised over time.

In process a personalization indicator is assigned to an incoming message to be presented in the information stream for the user. The personalization indicator can be computed via the process illustrated at flow E in the example of . For example in process keywords representing concepts from the message content are extracted. In process frequencies of occurrence of the keywords in the interest profile are determined. In process weighting of interests corresponding to the keywords occurring in the interest profile are identified. In process the personalization indicators of the incoming messages are computed.

In process message content of the incoming messages is compared to an interest profile of the user to assign the personalization indicators. In process the personalization indicators are used to filter and prioritize the incoming messages into the information stream. In process the information stream is presented to the user.

In process commonly or frequently occurring topics are identified from a set of messages in a network or across networks. In general the set of messages can include messages with different destinations and different origins. For example a destination site includes one or more of a social media network and a user and an origin site can also include one or more of a social media network and a user. The set of messages can originate from a single source or multiple sources including multiple social media networks. The set of messages can also be directed to a single destination user a single destination site or multiple destinations including multiple social media networks.

In one embodiment the commonly or frequently occurring topics are identified from the set of messages via natural language processing of the set of messages or other known or convenient means. An example of the natural language processing and or disambiguation techniques which can be performed is illustrated in the example flow chart shown in .

In process statistical attributes for the commonly or frequently occurring topics in the set of messages that indicate respective levels of trendiness or popularity. In general the set of messages can include any set of messages analyzed in aggregate for any configurable application or purpose. For example the set of messages selected to be analyzed can include feeds and updates or other messages with which action is detected or generated which relates to sporting events scores or athletes. Such an analysis of all messages relating to sports acted upon created or interacted with over the last two hours could facilitate detection of upcoming trends or recent games scores or popular plays.

In addition new emerging relationships between words concepts can also be identified by analyzing messages and detecting frequently co occurring words. The frequent co occurrence of words which otherwise do not readily represent detectable related concepts can be discovered and tracked. For example concepts represented by the person Jeremy Lin and NBA may not have been identified as being related until fans and sports community began blogging tweeting and posting about recent games and results due to his coming off the bench. The co occurrence of the two terms key words strings can be detected and thus the emerging relationship trend can be identified by the system.

The set of messages can also be all messages activities on a given platform e.g. Facebook . All Facebook messages content can be analyzed over a period of time to determine what is or was popular within the specified time frame. Various parameters can be used to select the messages to be analyzed to extract the information sought. Note that the set of messages can be associated with a given user and the levels of trendiness computed can correspond to levels of interest of the user in the commonly or frequently occurring topics. In general messages can refer to one or more of user events user likes or dislikes status updates mentions feeds tweets messages associated links notes messages associated with video content messages associated audio content messages associated photos web pages documents email messages comments chat messages and any other media or online content activity interacted with by humans and or machines.

In general interactions can include by way of example but not limitation user events user likes or dislikes status updates mentions feeds tweets messages associated links notes messages associated with video content messages associated audio content messages associated photos web pages documents email messages comments chat messages.

In process the commonly or frequently occurring topics are detected as indicators in a user interface. In one embodiment the indicators are depicted in a radial arrangement from a common node wherein a radial distance from the common node varies based on relevance to a facet represented by the common node using the statistical attributes. The visual characteristics of the indicators can correspond to the levels of trendiness of the corresponding topic in the commonly or frequently occurring topics. In process an action with respect to the indicator is detected. In process additional information relating to a selected topic associated with the indicator is presented.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a user device a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge a console a hand held console a hand held gaming device a music player any portable mobile hand held device or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

The network interface device enables the machine to mediate data in a network with an entity that is external to the host server through any known and or convenient communications protocol supported by the host and the external entity. The network interface device can include one or more of a network adaptor card a wireless network interface card a router an access point a wireless router a switch a multilayer switch a protocol converter a gateway a bridge bridge router a hub a digital media receiver and or a repeater.

The network interface device can include a firewall which can in some embodiments govern and or manage permission to access proxy data in a computer network and track varying levels of trust between different machines and or applications. The firewall can be any number of modules having any combination of hardware and or software components able to enforce a predetermined set of access rights between a particular set of machines and applications machines and machines and or applications and applications for example to regulate the flow of traffic and resource sharing between these varying entities. The firewall may additionally manage and or have access to an access control list which details permissions including for example the access and operation rights of an object by an individual a machine and or an application and the circumstances under which the permission rights stand.

Other network security functions can be performed or included in the functions of the firewall can be for example but are not limited to intrusion prevention intrusion detection next generation firewall personal firewall etc. without deviating from the novel art of this disclosure.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the teachings to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the disclosure are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the disclosure as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

