---

title: Biometric authentication
abstract: A tool for determining whether to grant a current person access to a protected resource. A computer receives a plurality of touches performed by a current person on a touch screen. Each touch in the plurality of touches includes a location of the touch on the touch screen and a surface area measurement of the touch screen impacted by the current person. The computer determines whether each touch in the plurality of touches received matches a predetermined touch performed by a person authorized to access the protected resource. If each touch in the set of touches received matches a stored touch performed by a person authorized to access the protected resource the current person will be granted access to the protected resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09035745&OS=09035745&RS=09035745
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09035745
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120201
---
The present invention relates generally to security and more specifically to a biometric enhancement for graphical touch point authentication.

Passwords are used to protect access to various types of buildings devices and electronic resources such as computers applications data files and online banking sites. Typically a password system uses an alphanumeric string that is entered on a keyboard. Strong passwords often contain elements such as symbols capital and lowercase letters and numbers. These elements that make up strong passwords also make them difficult to remember.

Graphical passwords emerged as an alternative to the standard alphanumeric string password. People tend to remember images with greater accuracy than they remember text.

A common graphical authentication technique is the passpoints system. Generally authentication in this system is represented by a series of click points points clicked on an image using a computer mouse . During setup of the passpoints system an image is arbitrarily chosen to help the user remember a series of click points. The user clicks on a series of click points in the image each of the click points being a pixel in the image and the sequence and location of each click point is stored for comparison with click points entered later by a user trying to gain access to a secured resource. If each click point entered by the user trying to gain access to the secured resource falls within a tolerance region around a corresponding stored click point then access to the secured resource is granted. A tolerance region around each click point is needed because it is difficult to click on exactly the same pixel each time when entering click points to gain access to the secured resource. A tolerance region may be a circle of a certain radius around the click point. For example if the click point s x and y coordinates relate to a pixel then the error tolerance may be a circle with a radius of a certain number of pixels around the click point.

Generally a computer mouse is used to select the click points within the passpoints system. However many devices today utilize only touch screens as input devices. Touch screens allow a user to make selections or move a cursor by simply touching the touch screen via a finger or stylus. In general the touch screen recognizes the size shape and position of a touch on the touch screen and outputs this information to a host device. The host device may be a computer such as a desktop laptop handheld or tablet computer and may be able to recognize a single touch event or multiple touch events at the same time depending on the type of touch screen.

Touch screens typically include a touch panel and a controller. The touch panel is a clear panel with a touch sensitive surface. The touch panel is positioned in front of a display screen so that the touch sensitive surface covers the viewable area of the display screen. The touch panel registers touch events and sends these signals to the controller. The controller processes these signals into data and sends the data to the host device. Any device that houses a touch screen generally provides an Application Programming Interface API that programs can call to utilize the data.

The passpoints system described above can also be implemented using a touch screen to select a series of touch points points touched on an image using a touch screen instead of a series of click points.

It is known to enhance traditional character based passwords using pressure sensing keyboards to measure the amount of pressure exerted on each key while entering the password. Also timing between each keystroke has been used to enhance these traditional character based passwords.

Aspects of an embodiment of the present invention disclose a method system and a program product for determining whether to grant a current person access to a protected resource. The method comprises a computer receiving a plurality of locations and a plurality of measurements of a respective plurality of surface areas of a respective plurality of sequential touches by the current person on a touch screen. The computer determines whether the touch sequence of the plurality of locations approximately match a predetermined sequence of touch locations for an authorized person to access the protected resource and whether the plurality of measurements of the respective plurality of surface areas approximately match a predetermined sequence of surface area measurements for the plurality of touches respectively for the authorized person to access the protected resource. If so the computer will grant the current person access to the protected resource and if not the computer will not granting the current person access to the protected resource.

In the depicted embodiment computing system includes user computing device and server computer interconnected over network . Network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a combination of the two or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between user computing device and server computer in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections.

User computing device may be a laptop computer tablet computer desktop computer personal digital assistant PDA smart phone or a touch screen device e.g. automatic teller machine security system controller . In general user computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of displaying an image on a display screen accepting user input on touch screen and communicating with server computer over a network. User computing device includes touch screen secure resource interface program internal components and external components

Known touch screen may be a separate component peripheral device attached to and in communication with user computing device or it may be integrated with user computing device . Touch screen is configured to receive input from a user s touch and to send this input to user computing device . User computing device interprets the input in accordance with its programming.

In one embodiment secure resource interface program is a known web browser that is capable of displaying an image on user computing device accepting user input from touch screen on user computing device and displaying web pages or images received over network . In other embodiments secure resource interface program may be an application on a smart phone a security system program or any other program that is capable of displaying an image on a display screen accepting user input on touch screen and communicating over a network with a secure resource.

Server computer may be a management server a web server or any other electronic device capable of receiving and sending data. In other embodiments server computer may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Server computer contains user authentication program touch point setup program biometric data store image and touch point location store and secure resource . Server computer also includes internal components and external components

Touch point setup program stores and displays an authorized user assigned image that will be displayed on the user computing device to solicit a set of touch points during setup and subsequent authorization. During setup touch point setup program receives from a user authorized to access secure resource an authorized user via a user computing device such as user computing device a set of touch points on the predetermined authentication image for use by user authentication program and stores the received set of touch points. Each touch point in the received set of touch points includes a touch screen input location and a biometric measurement received from a touch screen such as touch screen when the authorized user touches a touch screen plane of the touch screen.

In one embodiment a touch screen input location is a location of a touch on the touch screen plane of the touch screen. The touch screen plane is typically mapped into a coordinate system such as a Cartesian coordinate system a Polar coordinate system or some other coordinate system. When a Cartesian coordinate system is used the touch screen input location corresponds to x and y coordinates. When a Polar coordinate system is used the touch screen input location corresponds to radial r and angular coordinates . Touches at touch screen input locations can be inputted sequentially simultaneously or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the controller of touch screen determines the touch screen input location by calculating the centroid of a touch on the touch screen plane of touch screen using raw data from the touch. The centroid of a two dimensional shape is the intersection of all straight lines that divide that shape into two parts of equal moment. The centroid coordinates are used as the touch screen input location.

In one embodiment user authentication program uses the finger s surface area which contacts the screen at each touch point and is sensed by touch screen as an additional biometric criteria of authentication. The controller of touch screen determines the surface area measurement of a touch on touch screen using raw data from the touch. The controller determines the surface area of each point touched by the finger on the screen by adding the number of pixels touched during each touch of the finger on the touch screen and optionally multiplying this number by the area of each pixel. In other embodiments additional biometric measurements may include the pressure of the touch the duration of the touch on touch screen or any other biometric measurement capable of being detected by touch screen .

In one embodiment touch point setup program resides on server computer . In other embodiments touch point setup program may reside on another network server on user computing device or on any computing device provided that touch point setup program can communicate with secure resource interface program biometric data store and image and touch point location store . Touch point setup program receives an initial set of touch points from a user computing device such as user computing device over network and stores the initial set of touch points. In one embodiment touch point setup program stores the initial set of touch points by storing the touch screen input location of each of the initial touch points in image and touch point location store and the biometric measurement of each of the initial touch points in biometric data store . Touch point setup program also operates to allow an authorized user to modify previously stored touch points stored on server computer . Touch point setup program receives the modified touch points from the user computing device over network and stores the modified touch points. In one embodiment touch point setup program stores the modified set of touch points by storing the touch screen input location of each of the modified touch points in image and touch point location store and the biometric measurement of each of the modified touch points in biometric data store .

In one embodiment biometric data store is a file that may be written by touch point setup program and read by user authentication program . Biometric data store operates to store an authorized user s biometric measurement for each touch point received from touch point setup program . In other embodiments biometric data store may be a database such as an Oracle database or an IBM DB2 database.

In one embodiment biometric data store resides on server computer . In other embodiments biometric data store may reside on another server or another computing device provided that biometric data store is accessible to user authentication program and touch point setup program .

In one embodiment image and touch point location store is a file that may be written by touch point setup program and read by user authentication program . Image and touch point location store operates to store an authorized user s touch screen input location for each touch point received from touch point setup program . Image and touch point location store also operates to store an authorized user s image that will be displayed to help the authorized user recall his or her predefined set of touch points. In other embodiments image and touch point location store may be a database such as an Oracle database or an IBM DB2 database.

In one embodiment image and touch point location store resides on server computer . In other embodiments image and touch point location store may reside on another server or another computing device provided that image and touch point location store is accessible to user authentication program and touch point setup program .

Secure resource may be a website a database a data structure or any computer resource or device that requires user authentication to access. In one embodiment secure resource resides on server computer . In other embodiments secure resource may reside on another server or another computing device provided that secure resource is accessible to secure resource interface program .

User authentication program operates to determine whether to grant a current user of computing device access to secure resource by determining if a set of touch points received from the current user matches a stored set of touch points of an authorized user of secure resource . Each touch point in the set of touch points received by user authentication program includes a touch screen input location and a biometric measurement received from user computing device when the current user touches touch screen . In one embodiment each biometric measurement is a surface area measurement of a touch on touch screen . Typically the touches are input sequentially but can also be input simultaneously using two or more fingers or instruments or a combination thereof. In other embodiments additional biometric measurement may be the pressure of the touch the duration of the touch or any other biometric measurement capable of being detected by touch screen .

In one embodiment user authentication program is a program residing on server computer . In other embodiments user authentication program may reside on another server or another computing device provided that user authentication program is accessible to secure resource interface program and has access to biometric data store and image and touch point location store .

In step of user authentication program user authentication program receives from secure resource interface program over network the request to access secure resource such as a an application or file.

In response to receiving the request to access the secure resource user authentication program sends a predetermined image assigned by a user authorized to access secure resource an authorized user and stored in image and touch point location store to secure resource interface program over network step . In one embodiment user authentication program queries image and touch point location store to fetch the predetermined image assigned by the authorized user and sends the predetermined image to secure resource interface program .

In one embodiment secure resource interface program receives the predetermined image from user authentication program and sends the predetermined image to a display screen operatively coupled to user computing device . The display screen is configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that may include a pointer or cursor as well as other information. The display screen may be a monochrome display color graphics adapter CGA display enhanced graphics adapter EGA display variable graphics array VGA display super VGA display liquid crystal display e.g. active matrix passive matrix cathode ray tube CRT or plasma display.

Secure resource interface program determines a set of touch points for each touch on touch screen performed by a current user of user computing device . Each touch point in the set of touch points includes a touch screen input location and a biometric measurement. In one embodiment secure resource interface program obtains the touch screen input location and the biometric measurement by calling an Application Programming Interface API of touch screen . Secure resource interface program sends the set of touch points to user authentication program .

In step user authentication program receives the set of touch points from secure resource interface program over network . In step user authentication program determines that the received set of touch points matches a stored set of touch points of the authorized user within a specific error tolerance. User authentication program determines that the touch screen input location and the biometric measurement including the surface area of the finger which touches the screen at each touch point for each touch point in the received set of touch points matches a stored touch screen input location of the authorized user and a stored biometric measurement of the authorized user within a specific error tolerance. In one embodiment user authentication program queries image and touch point location store and biometric data store to fetch each stored touch point location of the authorized user and each stored biometric measurement of the authorized user.

User authentication program determines whether the received set of touch points including the surface area of the finger or instrument which touches the screen at each touch point match the stored set of touch points and associated biometric information of the authorized user within the specific error tolerance decision . For example a touch point location within 2 mm of the registered touch location center is considered a sufficient match. For example a touch surface area center within 5 of the registered touch surface area is considered a sufficient match. Alternatively the tolerances for the touch location center and the touch surface area which are considered sufficiently close for a match can be determined by multiple samples of the persons touch locations and touch surface areas during multiple iterations of test authentication during the set up process. If so decision yes branch then user authentication program sends a notification to secure resource interface program that the current user of user computing device should be granted access to secure resource step .

If user authentication program determines that the received set of touch points including the surface area of the finger which touches each point does not match the stored set of touch points and associated biometric information of the authorized user within the specific error tolerance decision no branch then user authentication program sends a notification to secure resource interface program that the current user of user computing device should not be granted access to secure resource step .

In step touch point setup program receives from secure resource interface program an indication that a user authorized to access secure resource an authorized user is requesting touch point setup. Secure resource interface program sends to touch point setup program the indication in response to an authorized user selecting a touch point setup function in secure resource interface program on a user computing device such as user computing device .

In response to receiving the indication of the touch point setup request touch point setup program sends to secure resource interface program a request for the authorized user to select and upload an image to use with user authentication program step .

Touch point setup program receives from secure resource interface program the image that the authorized user uploaded for use with user authentication program step .

Touch point setup program stores the image that the authorized user uploaded for use with user authentication program in image and touch point location store step so that user authentication program may access the stored image when carrying out step of .

Touch point setup program sends the uploaded image stored in image and touch point location store step and a request for the authorized user to input a set of touch points step to secure resource interface program .

In step touch point setup program receives a set of touch points from secure resource interface program . As previously discussed each touch point in the received set of touch points includes a touch screen input location and a biometric measurement.

For each touch point in the received set of touch points touch point setup program stores the touch point input location and the biometric measurement in image and touch point location store and biometric data store respectively step so that user authentication program may access the stored touch point input location and stored biometric measurement when carrying out step of .

User computing device and server computer include respective sets of internal components and external components . Each of the sets of internal components includes one or more processors one or more computer readable RAMs and one or more computer readable ROMs on one or more buses and one or more operating systems and one or more computer readable tangible storage devices . The one or more operating systems user authentication program and touch point setup program are stored on one or more of computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components for execution by one or more of processors of internal components via one or more of RAMs of internal components which typically include cache memory . The one or more operating systems and secure resource interface program are stored on one or more of computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components for execution by one or more of processors of internal components via one or more of RAMs of internal components which typically include cache memory . In the embodiment illustrated in each of the computer readable tangible storage devices is a magnetic disk storage device of an internal hard drive. Alternatively each of the computer readable tangible storage devices is a semiconductor storage device such as ROM EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable tangible storage device that can store a computer program and digital information.

Each set of internal components also includes a R W drive or interface to read from and write to one or more portable computer readable tangible storage devices such as a CD ROM DVD memory stick magnetic tape magnetic disk optical disk or semiconductor storage device. User authentication program and touch point setup program can be stored on one or more of portable computer readable tangible storage devices of external components read via R W drive or interface of internal components and loaded into computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components . Secure resource interface program can be stored on one or more of portable computer readable tangible storage devices of external components read via R W drive or interface of internal components and loaded into computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components

Each set of internal components also includes a network adapter or interface such as a TCP IP adapter card. User authentication program and touch point setup program can be downloaded to server computer from an external computer via a network such as network and network adapter or interface of internal components . From the network adapter or interface of internal components user authentication program and touch point setup program are loaded into computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components . Secure resource interface program can be downloaded to user computing device from an external computer via a network such as network and network adapter or interface of internal components . From the network adapter or interface of internal components secure resource interface program is loaded into computer readable tangible storage devices of internal components . The network may comprise copper wires optical fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers.

Each of the sets of external components includes a touch screen device . The touch screen device has a touch screen that is positioned in front of a display screen. Alternatively external components may include a display monitor a keyboard and a computer mouse. Each of the sets of internal components also includes device drivers to interface to touch screen device . The device drivers R W drive or interface and network adapter or interface comprise hardware and software stored in tangible storage devices and or ROM .

User authentication program touch point setup program and secure resource interface program can be written in various programming languages such as Java C including low level high level object oriented or non object oriented languages. Alternatively the functions of user authentication program touch point setup program and secure resource interface program can be implemented in whole or in part by computer circuits and other hardware not shown .

Based on the foregoing a computer system a method and a program product have been disclosed for determining whether to grant a user access to a secured resource. The description above has been presented for illustration purposes only. It is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the possible embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that other combinations and embodiments are possible. Therefore the present invention has been disclosed by way of example and not limitation.

