---

title: Method and system to control ambient RF energy for wireless devices
abstract: A method and apparatus is disclosed herein for controlling radio-frequency (RF) energy for wireless devices. In one embodiment, the method comprises determining to increase radio-frequency (RF) energy available to power a wireless tag and controlling the RF energy delivered to the wireless tag to provide tag energy, using one or more of: a) increasing transmission RF power of one or more wireless communication devices, b) increasing a duty cycle associated with wireless transmissions of one or more wireless communication devices, and c) decreasing path loss of the power to the wireless tag.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09397522&OS=09397522&RS=09397522
owner: DUKE UNIVERSITY
number: 09397522
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of RF energy harvesting more particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to directing more energy to wirelessly powered devices such as wirelessly powered sensor tags to control the amount of energy that can be harvested.

Sensor networks are becoming more popular. Radio Frequency Identification RFID tags have been used prevalently and those that include sensing capabilities have emerged as a generally inexpensive and effective means of addressing many wireless sensor applications. Purely passive sensors such as Computational RFID tags CRFID when actively interrogated by an RF transceiver reader receive energy via the interrogation signal to power themselves up so that they can acquire readings from their sensors. Generally CRFID tags equipped with one or more sensors require an internal energy source or an internal reservoir of previously stored energy to measure and store their acquired information at times other than during active interrogation by a reader.

Next generation sensor networks may be powered by energy harvesting techniques to avoid requiring batteries. Energy harvesting is the process by which energy is derived from external sources e.g. solar power thermal energy wind energy salinity gradients and kinetic energy captured and stored.

Among the various harvesting options include radio frequency energy RF . With RF energy harvesting wireless energy is harvested from a transmitter that is some distance away from devices with RF power harvesting capabilities. Such transmitters can include transmitters that transmit un modulated RF energy for the specific purpose of serving as a power source as well as other transmitters that perform a communication function.

One of the more popular forms of RF data communications used today is Wi Fi communications. Today most Wi Fi transmitters and receivers operate in the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz frequency bands and there are many local area networks that are based on Wi Fi in which access points enable Wi Fi clients to gain access to networks such as the Internet. Additionally other communication standards such as Zigbee and Bluetooth operate in the 2.4 GHz frequency spectrum. Other devices emit energy primarily in the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band such as microwave ovens and medical diathermy machines.

A method and apparatus is disclosed herein for controlling radio frequency RF energy for powering wireless devices. In one embodiment the method comprises determining to increase radio frequency RF energy available to power a wireless tag and controlling the RF energy delivered to the wireless tag to provide the tag energy using one or more of a increasing transmission RF power of one or more wireless communication devices b increasing a duty cycle associated with wireless transmissions of one or more wireless communication devices and c decreasing path loss of the power to the wireless tag.

A method and apparatus for controlling the energy provided to wireless devices e.g. nodes tags etc. is described. In some embodiments the wireless devices communicate with a communication protocol called Wi Fi such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n communication protocols specified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. In some embodiments the communication scheme called Wi Fi refers to another communication protocol other than the IEEE 802.11a b g n standard or successor communication protocols. In one embodiment the wireless devices are Wi Fi devices communicating at 2.4 GHz. In another embodiment the wireless devices are Wi Fi devices transmitting at 2.4 GHz and or 5 GHz. In one embodiment the energy is controlled by a control system. Under programmable control the control system coordinates groups of Wi Fi devices to increase the energy available in one or more specified locations to one or more Wi Fi nodes such as wireless sensor tags. This enables such nodes to be powered up to obtain an improved level of performance over that possible with an existing unmodified Wi Fi infrastructure. The techniques described herein adapt an existing infrastructure to improve the usefulness of Wi Fi based wireless sensor nodes with a software based solution that requires no hardware modifications.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide a more thorough explanation of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices etc.

A method and system for routing RF energy from stationary and mobile wireless devices e.g. Wi Fi devices to the wireless sensor devices e.g. Wi Fi nodes wireless sensor tags etc. are described. It should be noted that references to Wi Fi communications and networks in the embodiments below should not be considered as limiting the scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention are applicable to RF communication protocols and standards other than Wi Fi.

Referring to system includes a system controller that is communicably coupled with Wi Fi devices . Wi Fi devices can comprise access points computers e.g. laptop computers desktop computers etc. soft APs smartphones clock radios TVs thermostats wall switches alarm sensors glass break sensors smoke alarms carbon monoxide sensors asset tracking tags active RFID tags in the Wi Fi frequency band devices in a personal area network that use Wi Fi such as watches heart rate monitors and athletic or health monitors. Note that while multiple Wi Fi devices are shown the techniques described herein may only require one Wi Fi device to be present.

System also includes Wi Fi sensor node . In one embodiment Wi Fi sensor node comprises a Wi Fi sensor node tag. A Wi Fi sensor node tag is an intelligent sensor connected to a network e.g. Internet . Wi Fi sensor node harvests and accumulates energy using energy harvesting and storage module A from transmissions e.g. un modulated transmissions or transmissions modulated with information to be communicated in the Wi Fi band from one or more of Wi Fi devices For those skilled in the art there are numerous power management components available that can be used to receive the harvested energy from the antenna and store it in a rechargeable battery a supercapacitor or another energy storage reservoir until needed. Example suppliers of power management components are Maxim Linear Technology and Texas Instruments.

Periodically Wi Fi wireless sensor node executes a sensing task using sensor processing module B. In one embodiment sensor processing module B may sense temperature pressure humidity gas composition images position or another environmental condition.

Wi Fi wireless sensor node includes communication interface C to wirelessly communicate data e.g. sensed data to another Wi Fi device such as one or more of Wi Fi devices . In one embodiment the Wi Fi wireless sensor node transmits information in an unreliable datagram protocol UDP packet. In another embodiment the Wi Fi wireless sensor node transmits information in a transmission control protocol TCP packet a hypertext transfer protocol stream HTTP or another digital data format.

System controller controls Wi Fi devices in order to increase the Wi Fi energy they transmit to Wi Fi wireless sensor node . In one embodiment each of Wi Fi devices include software Athat is responsive to communications from system controller to change their energy output.

In one embodiment system controller comprises a memory and a processor coupled to the memory and operable to determine to increase Wi Fi i.e. radio frequency RF energy available to power Wi Fi wireless sensor node e.g. a wireless tag and control the Wi Fi energy delivered to the Wi Fi wireless sensor node . System controller controls the Wi Fi energy delivered to Wi Fi wireless sensor node using transmission parameters consisting of one or more of a increasing transmission Wi Fi power of one or more wireless communication devices such as Wi Fi devices b increasing a duty cycle associated with wireless transmissions of one or more wireless communication devices such as Wi Fi devices c decreasing path loss of the power to the Wi Fi wireless sensor node e.g. a wireless tag d varying the frequency or channel of operation e varying the power spectral density PSD of the transmitted signal f transmitting on a particular antenna from among a plurality of antennas. In one embodiment the system controller controls the Wi Fi energy by performing two or more of a f . In one embodiment the system controller sends commands to or otherwise signals the wireless communication device to adjust its transmit parameters.

In one embodiment the system controller increases RF energy to the wireless sensor node by signaling the one or more wireless communication devices e.g. Wi Fi devices to increase their own transmit output power. The signaling may be in the form of commands sent by the system controller to cause the wireless communication device to change its transmission parameters. In another embodiment the system controller increases the RF energy to the wireless sensor node by increasing the duty cycle or by increasing the frequency of beacon pulses output for at least one of the one or more wireless communication devices e.g. Wi Fi devices . In still another embodiment the system controller reduces path loss by selecting the one or more wireless communication devices e.g. Wi Fi devices for an increase in transmission Wi Fi power and or an increase in the duty cycle associated with their wireless transmissions based on their proximity to the Wi Fi wireless sensor node e.g. a wireless tag .

In one embodiment the processor of system controller controls the Wi Fi energy to maximize average power over time T at the wireless tag according to 

In one embodiment the transmit power of the Wi Fi devices may be controlled by the system controller. In one embodiment the transmit power is controlled via an Application Programming Interface API . In such a case the system controller makes a call to the device with a request to boost its transmit power. In one embodiment the request sets the transmit power amount. In another embodiment the request specifies an amount by which the transmit power is to increase. In still another embodiment the request includes data that is indicative of amount of increase in the transmit power e.g. a percentage by which to increase etc. The amount that the transmit power may be adjusted is dependent on the hardware firmware and software. In one embodiment in which the Wi Fi device is an access point the transmit power may be adjusted from 1 mW through 500 mW in 1 dB increments. Once the communication with the Wi Fi device is complete and the desired effect on the emitted energy has been achieved the system controller may optionally command the Wi Fi device to change its RF energy output perhaps to the original level. Of course energy emissions may be controlled so that regulatory requirements are met as required. In some embodiments the system controller controls the transmission parameters so that particular regulatory requirements are met by individual wireless devices e.g. Wi Fi devices as if they were operating in isolation from each other. In other embodiments the system controller controls the transmission parameters so that particular regulatory requirements are met by two or more wireless devices e.g. Wi Fi devices considered as a group.

In one embodiment the duty cycle by which a Wi Fi device is transmitting is adjusted to increase the amount of energy available to the Wi Fi wireless sensor node. In one embodiment the duty cycle is increased by increasing the transmission frequency of beacon pulses. This increases the amount of energy delivered to a Wi Fi wireless sensor node e.g. a wireless tag . illustrates a beacon pattern of a typical Wi Fi access point. The thin square bars indicate the transmitted beacon pulse. The thin curvy line indicates the harvestable energy available from those pulses. illustrates a modified increased beacon pattern of a Wi Fi access point of the system described herein. Notice that the amount of harvestable RF energy increases when a higher duty cycle of beacon pulses are presented.

In another embodiment the frequency of PROBE messages on Wi Fi clients is increased. In another embodiment the frequency of messages that are intended to control the operation of the network rather than to carry application data payloads are increased.

In yet another embodiment an increase in network traffic in general creates an increase in the duty cycle. For example in one embodiment the system controller causes one or more Wi Fi devices near the Wi Fi wireless sensor node e.g. tag to stream data. This could be accomplished by having the Wi Fi device e.g. an access point stream the data e.g. a video to a Wi Fi client near the Wi Fi wireless sensor node. Alternatively if there is no Wi Fi client in the vicinity the Wi Fi device could streaming the data to a dummy address or a previously used address even though the Wi Fi client is no longer there because the Wi Fi wireless sensor node would still receive the energy from such communications. Note that in one embodiment when performing such streaming the data may be communicated on less than all the antennas of the transmitting device. For example in the case of a Wi Fi access point streaming the data the access point may only transmit on one or only a subset of its available antennas. The selection of antennas may be made based on which antenna or combination of antennas would result in the most energy being delivered to the Wi Fi wireless sensor node. In one embodiment the determination of which antenna s to use may be based on the path loss between each antenna on the device and the Wi Fi wireless sensor node. In such a case such information is made available to the controlling device e.g. the system controller in a centralized control system and or the streaming Wi Fi device in a distributed control system where the Wi Fi device determines which Wi Fi wireless sensor node to provide power to . This information may be stored in the tables that are discussed in more detail below.

In a further embodiment the system controller causes an increase in the duty cycle by causing a change in the Wi Fi modulation. For example the system controller causes the Wi Fi modulation to change from the current OFDM to another IEEE 802.11 modulation format e.g. PH DSSS . For Wi Fi devices that expose the capability to change the modulation scheme programmatically the system controller sends a software command to the device instructing it to do so. In some embodiments the modulation scheme is changed in terms of data rate signal constellation symbol rate bit rate or by selectively switching among amplitude shift keying phase shift keying or quadrature amplitude modulation QAM 

In one embodiment the system controller could cause the Wi Fi devices to send short bursts of an un modulated or continuous wave CW signal at a particular Wi Fi carrier frequency at full power. For Wi Fi devices that expose the capability to transmit short bursts of CW programmatically the system controller sends a software command to the device instructing it to do so. Recently developed Wi Fi chipsets and devices such as the Intel 5300 and the Qualcomm Atheros AR9280 expose a plethora of capabilities like this.

In one embodiment the system controller increases the amount of energy delivered to Wi Fi wireless sensor nodes e.g. tags by selecting Wi Fi devices based on path loss information. For example the system controller selects one or more Wi Fi devices that have lower path loss to a particular Wi Fi sensor node when selecting which Wi Fi devices to increase transmit power and or duty cycle. That is in one embodiment the system controller increases the duty cycle of one or more Wi Fi devices that are most efficient at energizing Wi Fi nodes e.g. a tag or tags that are desired to be powered up. In this way the amount of energy delivered to the Wi Fi node can be increased. In one embodiment in order to reduce the effects of path loss the system controller uses the Wi Fi devices or devices closest to provide increased energy to the Wi Fi node s that is to be powered. The purpose of selecting only those Wi Fi devices near by the sensor nodes that are to be powered up is to make a more efficient sensor network. Once the communication with the Wi Fi device is complete and the desired effect on the emitted energy has been achieved the system controller may optionally command the Wi Fi device to change its RF energy output perhaps to an original level.

In one embodiment the path loss between each Wi Fi device and each Wi Fi wireless sensor node used with the techniques described herein is an estimate of the path loss. In one embodiment the path loss can be estimated by a Wi Fi device that sends a Query command with a known power. Nodes respond to the query with their ID and an indication of the power level they received. The difference between transmitted power and received power is easily computed by the Wi Fi device and provides the path loss.

In backscatter communications is performed between the Wi Fi device and the Wi Fi sensor node Case is shown in which the path loss is given as follows 

In Case is shown when a Wi Fi device D measures path loss between a Wi Fi device D and a tag by orchestrating operation of the device D and measurements by the tag where the tag can be communicating with device D either by active transmission or by backscatter. At step Wi Fi device D sends a command to Wi Fi device D instructing it to set its transmit power to P. At step device D emits power P. At step the wireless sensor node measures and caches P. At step device D sends a command to the wireless sensor node requesting the most recently cached value of P. At step the wireless sensor node reports the most recently cached value of P. At step device D sends a command to device D instructing it to turn off its transmitter. At step a command is transmitted to the wireless sensor node instructing it to expect D to power down shortly. After some interval sufficient for D to actually power down step is executed and the wireless sensor node measures and caches P. This effectively is the background energy received by the node when D is off. At step D instructs the wireless sensor node to report the most recently cached value of P. At step that value is returned. At step of the process the path loss is computed as follows 

In one embodiment the Received Channel Power Indicator RCPI as defined by IEEE 802.11k which is a functional measurement covering the entire received frame with defined absolute levels of accuracy and resolution is used to represent the received power. In another embodiment the Received Power Indicator RPI histogram as defined in IEEE 802.11h is used as an indication of the received power

In one embodiment path loss tables are stored locally by a Wi Fi device. In one embodiment the system controller receives dynamically updated estimates of RF path loss between Wi Fi devices e.g. APs stations etc. and wireless nodes such as Wi Fi wireless sensor nodes e.g. tags .

In one embodiment the system controller maintains information that allows it to perform its control operation. This is referred to as a centralized model of control. To obtain this information the system controller broadcasts a network query to all Wi Fi devices requesting information about all the wireless nodes e.g. tags of which each Wi Fi device is aware. In one embodiment the query or queries are for RF path loss information and Wi Fi device capabilities.

Using the information that is received the system controller creates and maintains a table containing information about each tag and its relationship with respect to each Wi Fi device. illustrates an example of an RF energy routing table ERT . Referring to a row exists to associate tag with a particular Wi Fi device and specifies the path loss between the two. In one embodiment each row also specifies the capabilities of the Wi Fi device that are available to be utilized to increase the energy to tags. The capabilities are a set of device characteristics. In one embodiment each row also specifies the capabilities of the Wi Fi node e.g. tag . To obtain this information the system controller queries each of the Wi Fi devices.

Thus in a centralized model of control a network wide ERT is stored in a memory of or accessible by an ERT server. An advantage of this approach is that the code and data query results for the system exists in one place. Also a centralized system controller e.g. server can receive commands from a node that transmits infrequently that indicate it has something important to send and the system controller should boost the power for that node so it can send that important message. In this way the node can request assistance from network resources to improve its performance. The node doesn t need to know anything about those resources it merely transmits a call for help. The system controller can respond by increasing power from the Wi Fi transmitters under its control. If that still doesn t provide enough power the system controller sends an instruction to an operator with an approximate location and an instruction to visit that area with the appropriate portable device that can provide sufficient power so that they can download the data from the node.

In one embodiment Wi Fi devices e.g. access points stations etc. maintain local copies of RF energy routing tables with e.g. tag id path loss tuples optionally with location based metadata for mobile devices. In one embodiment using a distributed model of control Wi Fi devices are equipped with RF Energy Routing Tables ERT that list the wireless sensor nodes they can see and the path loss to those nodes. In one embodiment the ERTs are built during a discovery phase in which the output power of the Wi Fi device is increased to its maximum and a command is transmitted that instructs the node to respond with the path loss it observes. This is analogous to the query command in the EPC Gen 2 RFID MAC protocol except that in addition to returning an identifier the tag returns the path loss.

In one embodiment a Wi Fi device that wants to power up a Wi Fi wireless sensor node broadcasts a message e.g. an IP message to the Wi Fi devices on a LAN that identifies the node and asks the Wi Fi devices that have information about that node in their ERTs to return it. In one embodiment this includes 

Referring to the process begins by processing logic maintaining a data structure that stores capabilities for a plurality of wireless communication devices and their respective path loss with respect to a wireless device e.g. Wi Fi node wireless or Wi Fi tag etc. processing block .

Subsequently processing logic determines that system controller wants to increase radio frequency RF energy e.g. Wi Fi energy available to power a wireless device e.g. Wi Fi node wireless or Wi Fi tag etc. processing block . This determination can be defined by but not limited to either a regularly pre defined polling interval an external stimulus to the system indicating the need to communicate with the node external interrupt an inquiry from the node itself or even a diagnostic maintenance configuration procedure requirement for the network sensing system. In response thereto processing logic accesses the data structure to select one or more wireless devices e.g. Wi Fi devices such as access point clients etc. to use to increase the energy delivered to the wireless device processing block .

After selection processing logic controls the RF energy delivered to the wireless device to using one or more of a causing an increase in transmission RF power of one or more wireless communication devices b causing an increase in duty cycle associated with wireless transmissions of one or more wireless communication devices and c decreasing path loss of the power to the wireless device processing block . In one embodiment controlling the RF energy is performed by increasing transmission RF power of one or more wireless devices increasing a duty cycle associated with wireless transmissions of one or more wireless devices and decreasing path loss of the power to the wireless device. In one embodiment controlling the RF energy is performed to maximize average power over time T at the wireless tag according to 

In one embodiment increasing transmitted power comprises signaling the one or more wireless communication devices e.g. a Wi Fi access point proximate to the wireless sensor device to increase its transmit power. In one embodiment increasing the duty cycle comprises increasing the frequency of a periodic beacon pulse output for at least one of the one or more wireless communication devices e.g. a Wi Fi access point proximate to the wireless device . In one embodiment increasing the duty cycle comprises changing RF modulations or communication parameters of a transmission by at least one of the one or more wireless communication devices. In one embodiment reducing path loss comprises selecting the one or more wireless communication devices for an increase in transmission RF power and or an increase in the duty cycle associated with their wireless transmissions based on their proximity to the wireless device. In such a case the proximity is based in terms of path loss and RF power.

In one embodiment after communication with the wireless device is complete the system controller optionally commands the Wi Fi device to change its RF energy output processing block . For example the system controller may optionally decide to restore the RF energy output to original levels when communications are complete.

Note that in the discussion above the control is discussed in terms of controller devices that cause an increase in the energy emitted by a Wi Fi device. However in one embodiment devices e.g. emitters other than Wi Fi devices e.g. Bluetooth devices Zigbee devices etc. may be controlled to deliver energy to the Wi Fi device. These devices may be parts of networks not necessarily compatible with Wi Fi but still using the same radio frequencies as Wi Fi. Examples include wireless sensor networks Zigbee networks other devices that use the 805.15.4 physical layer networks of Bluetooth devices and personal area networks PANs composed of devices that emit RF in the 2.4 GHz band. In some embodiments the devices may transmit using frequencies that are not part of the exact same frequency band as the Wi Fi device but they are similar to the operating frequency of the Wi Fi device. PANs are typically used to communicate between devices worn by users for medical monitoring or personal interfaces such as watches e.g. the WIMM device http www.wimm.com that interface with body worn wireless devices e.g. heart rate monitor shoe based accelerometer video camera attached to the user s glasses blood oxygen sensor motion sensor tilt sensor blood glucose sensor etc. . The devices in the PAN can be instructed to increase their wireless transmission power in much the same way as previously described when it is determined that there is a wireless sensor node nearby that should receive more RF energy. Other devices that emit energy in the 2.4 GHz band could also be equipped with the necessary hardware and software interfaces so their RF output could be controlled with software. Because the 2.4 GHz band is unlicensed there are many devices that use it and potentially any device that uses it could be part of an ambient RF energy control system. Examples include microwave ovens baby monitors cordless phones wireless keyboards wireless computer mice garage door openers radar devices and military equipment. Special purpose built 2.4 GHz emitters can be constructed with software defined radio SDR systems that run software on general purpose processors and interface with hardware transmitters and receivers. An example supplier of the software is gnuradio.org and an example supplier of the hardware is Ettus Research http ettus.com.

Ideally such devices generate RF in the Wi Fi frequency range because the harvesting efficiency of the Wi Fi sensor node is likely to be greatest at this frequency but exactly matching the Wi Fi frequency is not required.

Embodiments of the present invention discussed above are described in terms of control energy emissions in the 2.4 GHz ISM frequency band within which Wi Fi devices operate. However the present invention is not limited to use or operation in the 2.4 GHz frequency band. The techniques of controlling energy emissions to provide power to devices that harvest that energy apply to harvesting RF emissions in other frequency ranges such as for example the 5 GHz band that is part of the 802.11n standard television broadcasts AM and FM radio transmissions ultralow frequency ULF radio transmissions etc.

Energy is harvested by nodes that may or may not communicate with Wi Fi. That is there is no requirement that the devices harvest energy in the same frequency band in which they communicate. Also nodes could communicate by some other means e.g. flashing an LED . Some nodes may not communicate at all.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for enabling the various components and subsystems of computer system to communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

Network interface subsystem provides an interface to other computer systems networks and storage. Network interface subsystem serves as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from computer system . For example network interface subsystem of system controller may enable it to communicate with other systems via a communication network such as the Internet.

User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for inputting information to computer system .

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a projection device. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system .

Storage subsystem provides a computer readable storage medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of the present invention. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processor s . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention. Storage subsystem may comprise memory subsystem and file disk storage subsystem .

Memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem provides a non transitory persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media.

Computer system can be of various types including a personal computer a phone a portable computer a workstation a network computer or any other data processing system. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the computer system. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in are possible.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. The teachings described above may be applied to any system comprising a processor that can be booted or rebooted. For example while embodiments have been described above using certain systems as examples this is not intended to be restrictive. The teachings described above and recited in the claims may also be practiced by other computing systems.

Whereas many alterations and modifications of the present invention will no doubt become apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art after having read the foregoing description it is to be understood that any particular embodiment shown and described by way of illustration is in no way intended to be considered limiting. Therefore references to details of various embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the claims which in themselves recite only those features regarded as essential to the invention.

