---

title: Private interaction hubs
abstract: In embodiments of private interaction hubs, a mobile device has memory storage to maintain hub data that is associated with a private interaction hub, where the hub data includes multiple types of displayable data that is editable by different types of device applications. The memory storage at the device also maintains private data that is displayable and is viewable with one of the device applications. The mobile device also includes a display device to display the multiple types of the hub data in a hub user interface of a hub application. The display device can also display the private data and a subset of the hub data that are both associated with a device application in a device application user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325752&OS=09325752&RS=09325752
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09325752
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121222
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 580 143 filed Dec. 23 2011 entitled Mobile Devices Family Coordination the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Many types of devices such as mobile phones tablet devices and other computing communication and entertainment devices increasingly offer more functions applications and features which are beneficial to a user and can enhance one s personal time as well as work and social activities. However even with the many communication applications for email text and instant messaging as well as the seemingly unlimited number of third party organization centric applications that are available to users of the devices such as calendar list and other types of user data sharing applications it can still be difficult or inefficient for families or other groups of people to collectively get together the many different resources and unrelated applications to effectively coordinate efforts.

This Summary introduces features and concepts of private interaction hubs which is further described below in the Detailed Description and or shown in the Figures. This Summary should not be considered to describe essential features of the claimed subject matter nor used to determine or limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Private interaction hubs are described. In embodiments a mobile device has memory storage to maintain hub data that is associated with a private interaction hub where the hub data includes multiple types of displayable data. Each type of displayable data is editable by a respective different type of device application. The memory storage at the device also maintains private data that is displayable and is viewable with one of the device applications. The mobile device also includes a display device to display the multiple types of the hub data in a hub user interface of a hub application. The hub user interface is generally not used to display private data. The display device can also display in an application user interface different than the hub user interface the private data and a subset of the hub data of a particular type that is associated with one of the device applications in a device application user interface.

In embodiments the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected to initiate the subset of the hub data being displayed in the device application user interface in conjunction with the private data. Similarly the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the device application user interface can be selected to initiate the subset of the hub data being displayed in the hub user interface with the multiple types of the hub data. The private interaction hub associates members of the hub for private interaction and each of the hub members have an associated mobile device. The multiple types of the hub data is viewable in the hub user interface that is displayable at each of the associated mobile devices of the members of the private interaction hub.

In embodiments a hub operating system service is implemented to integrate the device applications with an operating system of the mobile device to implement the private interaction hub. The hub operating system service can receive social network updates for one or more members of the private interaction hub and then aggregate the social network updates for display in the hub user interface. The hub operating system service can also integrate a third party application with the private interaction hub where third party application data is displayable in the hub user interface in conjunction with the hub data. The hub operating system service is also implemented to manage multi user interactive updates to an event that is coordinated in the private interaction hub. The hub operating system service can initiate an invitation to join the private interaction hub as an SMS message that is communicated by a hub management service to a new member mobile device and the hub operating system service receives hub metadata that associates the new member in the private interaction hub based on an account identifier associated with the new member.

Embodiments of private interaction hubs or simply hubs as well as systems methods user interfaces services and applications to support the private interaction hubs are described. A private interaction hub is a private network or association of member users who voluntarily elect to privately interact and collaborate with each other in a bi directional manner such as by interacting and collaborating from multiple applications installed on their mobile devices. For example the members of a private interaction hub may interact by exchanging hub messages status updates event notifications and or location check ins that are shared with each other. As another example the members of a private interaction hub may collaboratively curate or edit a collection of shared content such as shared notes documents tasks photos contacts calendar events location updates applications to include collaborative gaming applications and or other media content such as any type of audio music video and or image data. As yet another example the members of a private interaction hub may interactively participate in collaborative multi player games or other multi user applications.

A member user of a private interaction hub may access create and or modify hub data such as shared messages content events media and application data through multiple applications on a single mobile device. For example a member of a golf hub may access a hub message sent to the hub members through the user interface of a native messaging application on his or her mobile device and also access this same message through a hub user interface of a hub application that presents the hub message in conjunction with other hub data from the Golf hub such as shared calendar events relating to golf outings. A private interaction hub can be provisioned for any association of people such as family members coworkers friends neighbors and or other groups of people. Additionally a member user of one private interaction hub may also be a member of multiple hubs which can be based on a single member sign on that identifies the member user for association in a single private interaction hub or in multiple hubs.

While features and concepts of private interaction hubs can be implemented in any number of different devices systems networks environments and or configurations embodiments of private interaction hubs are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

The mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a hub user interface of a hub application . The hub application aggregates disparate types of the hub data originating from the various member users of the private interaction hub. Thus the hub user interface offers a unified interactive view of or access to different kinds of hub data for a single private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface may provide a single unified access point to shared hub messages status updates check ins hub calendar events hub media hub applications and other types of hub content. As described above a private interaction hub or simply hub is a private network or association of member users who voluntarily elect to privately interact and collaborate with each other in a bi directional manner. The hub data includes any shared data or metadata that is used to facilitate the interaction and collaboration between the members of a private interaction hub and may include shared data for messaging notes contact management documents tasks location updates photos calendar events applications to include collaborative gaming applications and or other media content such as any type of audio music video and or image data that may be available or accessed from any source.

The basic functionality of an example private interaction hub is shown as a golf hub displayed in the hub user interface of the hub application . For example the hub user interface can include various selectable user interface tiles such as a members tile that is selectable to initiate a display of the constituent members of the private interaction hub. The user interface tiles may also include hub chat and or messages tiles to allow a hub member to participate in messaging threads with the other member users of the hub. For example as shown the member Bob has asked Anyone up for a round right now The user interface tiles may also include a photo album tile that is selectable to view photos shared by any of the hub members with the hub and a shared notebook tile from which the hub members can view shared notes. For example the golf hub may include a shared notes document that compiles the hub members collective research of new golf equipment. The hub user interface may also display a shared calendar that allows a member of the hub to view edit and post calendar events that will be shared with all of the other hub members. For example the calendar tile shows an upcoming tee time at St. Andrews on Saturday at 9 00 a.m. for all of the members. When a user selects a group item e.g. the message from Bob or tile e.g. the messaging tile further details about the selected item or group items related to the selected tile may be displayed by the hub application itself or the hub application may call a different device application e.g. a messaging application to display further details about the item s .

When a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data such as the golf message from Bob the hub application may provide additional details or options to the user to permit the user to interact further with the hub data. For example the hub application may display controls to allow the user to edit or reply to Bob s message. Alternatively or in addition when a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data e.g. Bob s message the hub application may launch or call another device application to permit the user to further interact with the piece of hub data e.g. the hub application may call a native messaging application .

The hub user interface of the hub application can also include user selectable access to third party applications such as when an application is pinned to or otherwise shared with a private interaction hub. A pinned third party application may also utilize the shared hub data such as shared application preferences or shared application state data. For example the golf hub shown displayed in the hub user interface includes a live tile representing a third party weather application that the members of the hub can quickly access to check the weather forecast at their local golf club such as when planning an upcoming golf outing. A user of the mobile device can also customize display aspects of a hub user interface such as the content of the user interface and how the elements of the hub user interface are arranged. Another example of a hub user interface of the hub application is a panoramic hub user interface such as for a family centric private interaction hub as shown and described in greater detail with reference to .

The example system also includes a hub management service and a cloud storage and service . The hub management service manages the formation and maintenance of private interaction hubs . The hub management service can correlate or associate member users of a hub by associating account identifiers of the members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The account identifier of a member user may be associated with an identifier of a private interaction hub in a data table that the hub management service maintains to correlate the hub members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The hub management service may also associate devices that correspond to hub members based on device identifiers. The account identifiers can include user membership identifiers and or sign on credentials such as an email and password combination or a username and password combination. The sign on credentials may be single sign on SSO credentials that are utilized for authentication purposes at a number of Web services including the cloud storage and service .

The cloud storage and service can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data and messaging services . The messaging services may include any type of email text e.g. SMS MMS and or instant messaging services. The data services may include any type of calendar photo album file or document sharing location mapping music sharing video sharing gaming contacts management and or notebook services as well as any other type of services that can be used to share stored hub data . The stored hub data can include any form of messages updates events content media and information that is maintained for the private interaction hubs and is accessible from the mobile device either upon a request from a device and or upon a data push to the device. The cloud storage and service also maintains stored hub metadata that includes settings and information pertaining to the private interaction hubs such as the name of a hub the background image or photo of the hub and an association of the hub members.

Although shown together as data and messaging services various application data services and various messaging services may be operated on separate devices and or operated by separate distinct entities. Additionally although the hub management service and the cloud storage and service are shown as independent services they may be implemented together as a single service. Further a server device or group of server devices can include implementations of both the hub management service and the cloud storage and service representative of a single entity that may be the same server system company system domain and the like.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services interchange the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata between the mobile devices that are associated with member users of a private interaction hub . For example a data and or messaging service of the cloud storage and service can receive a copy of hub data and or hub metadata from the mobile device that is used by a hub member store this hub data and hub metadata in the cloud storage as the respective stored hub data and stored hub metadata and then distribute the stored hub data and stored hub metadata to other mobile devices associated with other member users of the same private interaction hub as well as to other mobile devices associated with the same hub member. The stored hub metadata can include membership information pertaining to the member users of a private interaction hub hub identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular private interaction hub user identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular member user modification dates and or other metadata.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services may utilize single sign on SSO credentials for authentication purposes to limit the dissemination of the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata to only the authorized devices of hub members. Additionally any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized such as multiple devices connected using a peer to peer communication network.

The mobile device includes an operating system of the device and the operating system includes a hub operating system service that is implemented to integrate cloud based services a hub application and local device applications with the operating system to implement aspects of the private interaction hubs . The aspects that may be implemented include hub formation and membership maintenance synchronizing the hub data on the mobile device with the stored hub data and the hub metadata with the stored hub metadata with the cloud storage and service and providing the hub application and the local device applications on the mobile device with access to the hub data and the hub metadata . For example the hub operating system service may directly access the stored hub metadata at the cloud storage and service .

The hub operating system service or alternatively the hub application may also determine and maintain a local copy of the membership associations of member users account identifiers and identifiers of the private interaction hubs. The hub operating system service may also synchronize the stored hub data from the cloud storage and service with the hub data at the mobile device and synchronize the stored hub metadata from the cloud storage and service with the hub metadata at the mobile device. The hub operating system service may also synchronize with the cloud storage and service e.g. by sending changes or additions to hub data and hub metadata to the cloud storage and service . Such data synchronizations may occur in response to a user launching the hub application.

The mobile device includes the device applications that permit a user of the mobile device to access create and or modify the hub data private data of the user as well as the stored hub data that is managed by any of the data and messaging services at the cloud storage and service . Some or all of the device applications may be implemented as client side components or modules of any of the data and messaging services or may be implemented as standalone native applications e.g. local device applications at the mobile device. The device applications typically each consume and provide access to only a portion or subset of the hub data and the private data such as only a single type of hub data and private data e.g. only messaging data but not calendar data . The device applications also typically present the consumed hub data to a user in conjunction with the private data . Private data is data or metadata that is not associated with a private interaction hub and that has not been shared with other members of the hub e.g. data that has not been shared via the cloud storage and service .

The device applications at the mobile device may include a native or third party messaging application that provides a user with messaging alerts and access to messaging threads. The messaging application provides access to both shared message threads shared with a private interaction hub and private message threads between a user of the mobile device and others who are not members of the hub. The messaging application also allows a user to send a message to all of the hub members without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The messaging application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub messages. For example the messaging application may not provide access to the shared calendar events or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party calendaring application that provides scheduling alerts and access to a visual calendar. The calendaring application provides user access to both shared calendar events that are shared with hub members and private calendar events e.g. Exchange calendar events that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The calendaring application also allows a user to create and or share a calendar event to all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub calendar events. For example the calendaring application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party media viewing and or editing application that provides access to photo albums of digital photos or other digital media. The media application provides user access to both shared media files e.g. photos videos and or music shared with a private interaction hub and private media files that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The media application also allows a user to share media files with all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The media application may not provide user access to other types of hub data other than hub media files. For example the media application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared calendar events of the hub.

The hub operating system service can expose one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs application binary interfaces and or other types of interfaces to the hub application and to the device applications on the mobile device to allow these applications to access generate and or modify the hub data and or the hub metadata as described herein. The hub operating system service can be implemented as an integrated software component or module of the operating system . The hub operating system service can be maintained at the mobile device as executable instructions that are stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage as described with reference to the example device shown in . Additionally the hub operating system service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement aspects of private interaction hubs.

In embodiments the hub operating system service can initiate the hub management service to provision a private interaction hub . A user of the mobile device can start a private interaction hub and also invite others to join an existing private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface of the hub application may provide an existing hub member with the option to add a new member to the hub and the user may identify the prospective member by providing either a mobile device number or by selecting an existing contact from one of their social networks or other contacts.

The hub operating system service can receive the request from an existing member user of the device and in response the hub operating system service and or the hub management service communicates an invitation to join the hub as an SMS MMS or instant message sent to the prospective member s mobile device that may include a link to a registration site or other registration instructions. The hub operating system service and or the hub management service receives e.g. via a registration website an acceptance to the invitation to join the private interaction hub that includes at least an account identifier such as an SSO credential and associates the new member with the existing hub at the hub management service . Updated membership information including the new member s account identifier may also be propagated to other mobile devices of other members in the private interaction hub from the hub management service . When the new member user joins the hub he or she may be prompted to download and or install various applications configured to provide access to the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata such as the hub application and or the any of the device applications . The hub application may also be the entry point by which a user creates a new hub and or modifies the membership of an existing hub.

A private interaction hub can be provisioned for any association of people such as family members coworkers friends neighbors and any other people that may be associated together in a hub. Additionally a member user of one private interaction hub may also be a member of multiple hubs which can be based on a single member sign on that identifies the member to the hub operating system service and or to the hub management service . For example a person may be a member of a family hub that associates members of the person s family as well as a member of a neighborhood hub that associates members of the person s neighborhood and a golf hub that associates the person s friends that often golf together.

The integration of the hub application with the operating system of the mobile device provides that a user of the device can view a message or update on the hub user interface and in an application user interface of an application that is associated with the message or the update. For example a hub calendar is integrated with the calendar application e.g. a device application on the mobile device and a calendar update that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user to initiate the update being displayed in a calendar user interface of the calendar application. Alternatively the user may view the calendar user interface and select a calendar event that is associated with a private interaction hub to initiate a display of the hub calendar which includes the calendar event for the members of the hub. As another example a hub calendar event can be displayed in a hub user interface and the device calendar application can access and display the hub calendar event along with any private data calendar events that only the user of the device has access to view in a user interface of the device calendar application. The hub application and the device application both acquire the same hub calendar event data e.g. the same hub data stored on the mobile device . The two different user interfaces e.g. a hub user interface and a device application user interface display the same calendar event data.

In another example the hub messages and chat features are integrated with messaging applications e.g. the device applications on the mobile device and an email text or instant message that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user of the mobile device to initiate the message being displayed in a messaging application user interface. Alternatively the user may view a recent message from a member of a private interaction hub in a messaging application user interface and select the message to initiate a display of the hub messages interface such as to view the discussion thread associated with the recent message.

In embodiments the hub operating system service at the mobile device can receive social network updates for the member users of a private interaction hub such as when two or more of the members of a hub are also friends on a public social network site such as e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER or LINKEDIN . The social network updates can be pulled from a social network site based on the established association of the account identifiers of the hub members of a private interaction hub at the hub management service . The hub operating system service can then aggregate the social network updates for a particular hub for display in the hub user interface or on a homepage live tile associated with the hub. The hub operating system service at the mobile device can also be implemented to coordinate multi user interactive updates to an event that is managed in a private interaction hub. For example several members of a hub may participate in a multi player interactive game and each successive interactive update from a member of the hub is initiated by the member at a respective associated mobile device. In some examples the hub application performs some or all of the functionalities of the hub operating system service described herein.

Example methods and are described with reference to respective in accordance with one or more embodiments of private interaction hubs. Generally any of the services components modules methods and operations described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. Example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media that is local and or remote to a computer processing system and implementations can include software applications programs functions and the like.

At hub data that is associated with a private interaction hub is maintained where the hub data includes multiple types of displayable data that is editable by different types of device applications. For example during a hub synchronization operation or as a result of a push operation by a messaging service or other service the hub operating system service of the mobile device may obtain copies of the stored hub data and or the stored hub metadata that are associated with a private interaction hub and maintain these copies locally as the hub data and the hub metadata . The hub operating system service may also synchronize with the cloud storage and service by sending data updates and changes or additions to hub data and hub metadata at the mobile device to the cloud storage and service . Such data synchronizations may occur in response to a user launching the hub application.

The different types of device applications may include any type of software applications and the functions and features thereof that run e.g. execute on the mobile device such as for user interaction with messaging calendaring gaming media playback and viewing document editing and viewing Web browsing communication applications and any other type of user interactive application. The device applications may also include system level components that users of a device generally do not access or utilize but that typically run in the background while the device is operational. Accordingly the different types of hub data includes multiple different types of displayable data that is viewable and or editable by the respective different types of device applications . Non exhaustive types of editable and displayable data include SMS MMS or instant messaging data calendar events and appointment data any type of video and or image data and any type of documents that are generated and or downloaded for editing and viewing.

At private data of a user of the device is maintained where the private data is displayable and viewable with one of the device applications. For example the mobile device maintains the private data of a user in memory and the private data is displayable and associated with one of the device applications for viewing.

At the hub data is displayed in a hub user interface of a hub application. The hub user interface displays the multiple types of the hub data and typically does not display the private data of the user. For example the mobile device includes the display device to display the hub data in the hub user interface . The hub data that is displayed in the hub user interface may be viewable by each of the members of the private interaction hub at a respective associated mobile device of each member.

At the private data and a subset of the hub data that is associated with the same device application as the private data is displayed in a device application user interface. The device application user interface typically does not display the other types of maintained hub data that are not associated with the same device application. For example the mobile device includes the display device to display the private data and a subset of the hub data that is associated with the same device application as the private data in a device application user interface.

At a user selection of the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the hub user interface is received and at the subset of the hub data is displayed in the device application user interface in conjunction with the private data responsive to the user selection of the subset of the hub data. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device receives a user selection of the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the hub user interface and responsive to the user selection the subset of the hub data can be displayed in the device application user interface in conjunction with the private data.

At a user selection of the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the device application user interface is received and at the subset of the hub data is displayed in the hub user interface with the multiple types of the hub data. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device receives a user selection of the subset of the hub data that is displayed in the device application user interface and responsive to the user selection the subset of the hub data can be displayed in the hub user interface with the multiple types of the hub data.

At social network updates are received that reflect the social networking activities of members of a private interaction hub and at the social network updates are aggregated for display in the hub user interface in conjunction with the multiple types of the hub data. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device receives social network updates for the members of a private interaction hub such as when two or more of the members are identified as friends on a social network site and the hub operating system service aggregates the social network updates for display in the hub user interface in conjunction with the multiple types of the hub data .

At multi user interactive updates are managed for a multi user activity that is coordinated in the private interaction hub. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device manages multi user interactive updates for a multi user activity that is coordinated in a private interaction hub such as when several members of the hub participate in a multi player interactive game and each successive interactive update from a member of the hub is initiated by the member at a respective associated mobile device.

At an invitation e.g. as an SMS or MMS message to join the private interaction hub is initiated and communicated to a mobile device associated with a new member. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device initiates an invitation to join the private interaction hub and the hub management service communicates the invitation as an SMS or MMS message to a mobile device associated with the new member. An invitation may be communicated as an SMS MMS instant message email or other mode of digital communication such as an NFC or other tap mechanism employed to communicate an invitation to join a private interaction hub. The hub management service may then receive an acceptance reply to the invitation to join the private interaction hub such as a single sign on that identifies the new member to the hub operating system service and or to the hub management service .

At hub metadata is received that associates the new member in the private interaction hub based on an account identifier associated with the new member. For example the hub operating system service at the mobile device receives the hub metadata that associates the new member in the private interaction hub based on an account identifier associated with the new member.

At a member of the private interaction hub is associated with multiple other private interaction hubs based on a single sign on that identifies the member. For example the hub operating system service and or to the hub management service receives a single member sign on that identifies the member to the hub operating system service or to the hub management service and the member is associated in multiple private interaction hubs . A user of the mobile device can then view the hub data for each of the private interaction hubs in a separate hub user interface on the display device of the mobile device.

The device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data such as media content and the shared hub data such as messages updates and events data at the device. The media content can include any type of audio video and or image data. The communication devices can also include transceivers for cellular phone communication and or for network data communication.

The device also includes input output I O interfaces such as data network interfaces that provide connection and or communication links between the device data networks and other devices. The I O interfaces can be used to couple the device to any type of components peripherals and or accessory devices. The I O interfaces also include data input ports via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user inputs to the device as well as any type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

The I O interfaces also support natural user interface NUI inputs to the device such as any interface technology that enables a user to interact with a device in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like. Examples of natural user interface inputs may rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition on screen and motion gesture recognition proximate the device head eye and environment recognition and tracking augmented reality and virtual reality systems and any other type of audible vision touch gesture and or machine intelligence that may determine user input intentions.

The device includes a processing system that may be implemented at least partially in hardware such as with any type of microprocessors controllers and the like that process executable instructions. The processing system can include components of an integrated circuit programmable logic device a logic device formed using one or more semiconductors and other implementations in silicon and or hardware such as a processor and memory system implemented as a system on chip SoC . Alternatively or in addition the device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that may be implemented with processing and control circuits. The device may further include any type of a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures and architectures as well as control and data lines.

The device also includes computer readable storage media such as data storage devices that can be accessed by a computing device and that provide persistent storage of data and executable instructions e.g. software applications programs functions and the like . Examples of computer readable storage media include volatile memory and non volatile memory fixed and removable media devices and any suitable memory device or electronic data storage that maintains data for computing device access. The computer readable storage media can include various implementations of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and other types of storage media in various memory device configurations.

Generally computer readable storage media is representative of media and or devices that enable persistent and or non transitory storage of data in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. A computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that transmits instructions such as via a network. The signal media can embody computer readable instructions as data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves or other transport mechanism.

The computer readable storage media provides storage of the device data and various device applications . The computer readable storage media also provides storage for an operating system of the device that is maintained with the computer readable storage media and executed by the processing system . In this example the device also includes a hub operating system service that implements embodiments of private interaction hubs such as when the example device is implemented as the mobile device shown in . An example of the hub operating system service is the hub operating system service that is integrated with the operating system at the mobile device as described with reference to .

The device applications can also include any of the applications that implement aspects of private interaction hubs and or mobile devices family coordination such as described with reference to the following . The example device also includes a family coordination architecture which may be implemented in the general context of software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry or any combination thereof to support embodiments of private interaction hubs and or mobile devices family coordination. The device can also include a positioning system such as a GPS transceiver or similar positioning system components that can be utilized to determine a global or navigational position of the device.

The device also includes an audio and or video system that generates audio data for an audio device and or generates display data for a display device . The audio device and or the display device include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video display and or image data. In implementations the audio device and or the display device are integrated components of the example device . Alternatively the audio device and or the display device are external peripheral components to the example device.

In embodiments at least part of the techniques described for private interaction hubs may be implemented in a distributed system such as over a cloud in a platform . The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for services and or resources . For example the services may include the hub management service the cloud storage and service and any of the data and messaging services as described with reference to . Additionally the resources may include the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata as described with reference to .

The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices e.g. included in the services and or software resources e.g. included as the resources and connects the example device with other devices servers etc. The resources may also include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the example device . Additionally the services and or the resources may facilitate subscriber network services such as over the Internet a cellular network or Wi Fi network. The platform may also serve to abstract and scale resources to service a demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform such as in an interconnected device embodiment with functionality distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part at the example device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

The example system includes a device association service that associates or correlates the client devices by device identifiers user identifiers and or by any other type of identifiable association. Any of the devices and services can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include wired and or wireless networks. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The communication network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by mobile operators such as a communication service provider cell phone provider and or Internet service provider. A mobile operator can facilitate mobile data and or voice communication for any type of a wireless device or mobile phone.

The client devices can each be associated with a different user and the users are defined members of a family . The example client device is representative of the various client devices in the family. Any of the client devices in the family can include services such as software applications e.g. computer executable instructions that can be executed by a processor or processor system to implement the embodiments described herein. In this example the client device includes a family coordination architecture that implements features of a family hub a parental control service that implements features of a parent dashboard a family check in service a device quiet service that implements features of quiet time and quiet zone a safe driving service and a device sharing service . The client device services are further described with reference to .

Additionally any one or combination of the various client device services may be abstracted for implementation by a network service provider such as the device association service . For example the client devices that are associated in the family can be interconnected through a central computing device or system e.g. may be one of the client devices which may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the devices. In embodiments the central computing device may be a cloud service of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices via the communication network or other communication link. The interconnection architecture enables functionality across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the client devices may have different physical configurations and capabilities and the central computing device implements a platform to enable delivery of an experience that is both tailored to a particular device and yet common to all of the devices.

In this example of the client device services the family coordination architecture includes a family hub manager that implements coordinates and or manages various family features such as family calendar family chat family shared contacts family journal and memories tasks and chores family keys and family budget . The parental control service implements features such as a parent dashboard manager age appropriate content control and safe social networking . The device quiet service implements features such as quiet time and quiet zone . The various client device services and features are further described throughout the document.

Any of the client device services can include be integrated with or implement any of the other client device services and applications. For example the family coordination architecture can include any one or combination of the parental control service the family check in service the device quiet service the safe driving service and the device sharing service . In embodiments the family coordination architecture may be implemented for the coordination of time messaging data activities and any other shared services. The shared services may be any of the client device services and or any type of shared services that may be associated with a service and or multi system operator MSO devices. Further the parental control service can be implemented to throttle expand manage and or reallocate data sharing of the client device services.

Any of the family features and or applications of the family coordination architecture can be implemented as private some private and some public or private with optional user control to share information and data with public third party services and applications. Similarly any of the client device services and applications described herein may be private public sharable user controllable and or any combination thereof. In embodiments the family coordination architecture and or the family hub manager can be implemented as an overall managing architecture a collective embodiment of and or integration of any of the client device services and or applications that may be implemented for expandability and instantiated together as the family coordination and or the family hub architecture. Further any of the client device services can include be integrated with or implement any of the other client device services and applications and collectively may be embodied as a family hub and or coordination architecture or service.

The hub is a central space for membership orientated coordination of communications activities information and integration. Designated member relationships can be utilized to define how the data and information is managed and can be implemented to leverage the social contract such as between members of a defined familial group in the illustrated example. In one or more implementations the hub is implemented as a user interface e.g. via a client device application for integration and aggregation of the membership orientated communications activities and information. A hub can be implemented as a private shared space between defined members. The hub contains links to other members profiles and based on restriction settings allows aggregation for visibility of some of other members data and information within the hub. The hub shares a group calendar which can be viewed and edited a common text message window a posting board a shared photo album a check in feature and any other type of shared information.

Devices and or device accounts can be associated within a set of devices or device accounts e.g. a family phone account user accounts a connected set of devices and so on and all or a subset of the devices or accounts can communicate with other devices or accounts. The members of a hub can be defined by any number of different classes of people such as Junior Teen Mom Dad or Parent Grandparent Nanny Life Coach and so on for the illustrated example of a family. Further the members of a family can be defined to distinguish a live in Nanny from a Babysitter for example.

Additionally membership of the hub as well as use of the hub by the members can be controlled by a select collection of users such as one or two mobile phones by the associated users of the client devices. For example one of the members in the hub can be the designated control person such as Mom who runs the household employer and so on.

From a single configuration of the members the hub can be provisioned setup and propagated out e.g. automatically. The features and configuration of a hub may default to an automatic easy setup but any rule feature or configuration aspect can be readily modified by a user. Provisioning a hub may be based on billing e.g. a family or corporate billing plan. However if a phone device is changed to a different carrier for example the phone device can still receive texts related to the hub. Alternatively or in addition provisioning a hub can be based on email addresses phone numbers user account identifiers or any other identifier.

A retail person selling a new phone package for instance can easily identify the members each to their new phone devices and initiate the hub being instantiated. From a consumer perspective it just works and members can walk out of the store all set up. All of the data and information can be shared with a single selection and thus the members do not have to share each item e.g. a grocery list photos calendar etc. individually and separately.

The hub user interface may act as a shared space that is customizable and provides for user generated and shared content. Some information can be shared while other information is not. For example Mom s complete Christmas list is not viewable by the other family members but Dad and Kids can add to the list and only view their contribution . Hub setup may be performed a la carte meaning only the features that members want displayed on the hub wall can be selected. For example Mom wants to see the shopping list whereas Dad does not shop and so wants to avoid having the list displayed on his device yet he could still access the shopping list to add items when desired.

The hub user interface integrates functions calendar functionality event and or data summaries i.e. on the wall as well as content that is shared between the members of the hub e.g. lists documents etc. . For example the hub user interface may include a family check in or check in option. The hub user interface may also include a chat section where location check ins messaged are displayed along with other messages interchanged between the members of the hub. The hub wall is representative of an area via which members of the group may add to as desired like a lunchroom bulletin board family refrigerator and so on. In implementations the information can be aggregated in pillars or columns and shown on the hub wall as illustrated. The hub wall can also represent an interrelation between any of the information and data that appears on the wall and its placement in time. The hub settings provide that a user can control which functions are integrated and displayed within the hub such as on the wall.

The hub information may also be context relevant to the members of the hub and the calendar includes shared hub events. Calendar updates can be posted as notice events on the wall and a user can look at the wall to see upcoming hub events or the events that pertain to one or more other members of the hub. Messaging may also be performed that is private among the members of the hub. A member can instant text or other communication to all other members in the hub. Texting such as for a work meeting can divide each members display on their respective devices into individual screens for each member.

The hub may also be extensible and may link to a hard drive on a home computer or sync to just one of the other devices the manager or cloud control e.g. from a network based service . The hub may also be extensible to third parties that add a note on the hub wall such as implemented with application program interfaces APIs for functions to post data to the hub. A third party application however would not have access to the context of the hub wall such as to obtain or display hub data. The private information and hub data could be encrypted and only decrypted by the phone devices that are associated with the hub.

Thus the hub supported by the hub coordination architecture may be thought of as a central space coordination of communications activities information and integration of members of the hub. Hubs may be defined to support a variety of different membership such as for family members coworkers friends acquaintances fan clubs and so forth. Therefore although examples are discussed that relate to a family in the following discussion it should be readily apparent that membership in the hub may be defined in a variety of other ways without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Accordingly the hub coordination architecture may be used to support a variety of different functionality and further aspects of private interaction hubs are also described further herein.

A family calendar is visible on the family hub wall and shared by all of the family members to update other family members of family orientated events and activities as well as individual family member appointments. In embodiments the family calendar is displayed as part of the family hub user interface and the family calendar can be implemented as a client device application. Embodiments of a family calendar include any one or combination of implementation features such as described herein.

The family calendar can include any type of icons or identifiers of past and future events activities appointments etc. for any of the family members in the family group. Information noted on the family calendar can be context relevant to the members of the family group and the calendar includes shared family events. Calendar updates can be posted as notice events on the family hub wall where a family member can look at the wall to see upcoming family events or the events that pertain to one or more other family members. Conflicts resolution can be implemented to resolve calendar scheduling conflicts among the family members. The calendar may be shared with others that are not specifically immediate family members such as Grandma or the Nanny who picks up the kids from school. The family calendar can include action event and or task reminders that are related e.g. cross linked in time. A school calendar can be integrated with the family calendar and may be imported information from the kid s school such as for assignments events grades school calendar events etc.

A family chat feature provides a privatized chat interface for the family members of the family group within the family hub. The family members can chat individually with one another or with all of the family members. In embodiments the family chat feature can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application.

A family shared contacts feature provides a shared phone address and or contact listing for all of the family members in a family group. In embodiments the family shared contacts feature can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application. Generally one family member is the point of contact for the plumber carpet cleaner dog walker and other service people but when that family member is not available the other family members typically don t have access or know who to contact. Embodiments of the family shared contacts feature provide that all of the family members have access to the family contacts particularly when the usual point of contact family member is not available.

A family journal feature provides that any family member can share any type of material information newspaper or magazine subscription linked reference television programs videos music etc. and tag the material for the attention of the other family members within the family group to generate the family s own journal. In embodiments the family journal can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application. Embodiments of the family journal feature include any one or combination of implementation features such as described herein.

The family journal can be utilized for subscriptions such as a family newspaper subscription family content tagging television programs videos magazine articles music etc. to create the family journal. A family journal includes the concept of a scrapbook or memories e.g. past events and information however the family journal generally pertains to the present or future tense collation of material for the family members. Additionally each family member may have his or her own respective journal that the other family members can access and view.

A family memories feature provides photos video images and the like in a shared private photo album for the family members of the family group. Access to a photo album of family memories can be granted to non family members. In embodiments the family memories feature can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application. Embodiments of the family memories feature provide that a family memories journal or photo album can be implemented for the designated family members and or for extended family members non family members friends and the like.

A family tasks and chores feature provides that a family member can identify and define tasks and or chores for other family members to complete. The family tasks and chores feature can be integrated with other family hub features such as the family calendar family check in and eWallet. For example the completion of tasks and chores can correlate to kids allowance or may be used as a family incentive to reach a milestone that all of the family members will benefit from such as a family vacation movie night etc. In embodiments the family tasks and chores feature can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application.

A family keys feature provides that a mobile phone or other portable communication device can be implemented to interrelate with an automobile or building and give a user the ability to grant or restrict access and or use of the automobile or building to someone either within the family group or outside of the family group. In embodiments the family keys features can be implemented as a user interface with the family hub and or as a client device application. The family keys feature can also be implemented for interaction with application and on line content stores e.g. Windows Store iTunes etc. . Embodiments of the family keys features include any one or combination of implementation features such as described in the following paragraphs.

Family keys provides electronic house and or vehicle keys and can be implemented with near field communication NFC security or other proximity security in a phone device. In embodiments the phone is the identity that is associated with the electronic key to a house building or vehicle. A parent can unlock a car for someone or unlock the front door of the house for a child coming home from school for maid access or for a delivery person. Family keys can also be used to monitor when a child enters and exits the house. A parent can also easily change the locks with the electronic family keys and the key codes can be updated on all of the family members devices.

The family keys can be set as variable time locks such as to limit access to a vehicle after a designated time in the evening. Alternatively a family key may be implemented as a portable permission slip to allow a kid access to a vehicle television computer etc. Family keys can be implemented as an intersection of the house and family. For example the television may not display some channels or content when only the kids are home but will allow the channels and or content to display when a parent is home presumably monitored by adult .

Family keys can also be implemented to provide a kid money on his or her phone with a spending limit and or a time limit. A parent doesn t have to then transfer money or access cash to give to the kid. This may be incorporated with remote parental approval. Related to family keys people care about the safety and security of their families. In eWallet scenarios a phone user may have fewer authentication checks for accessing a wallet if the user s phone is connected to the home WiFi and GPS shows that the user is located at the home. The user s phone may also manage a child s allowance. In terms of NFC if a home s front door is NFC enabled a user can grant access to the housecleaning service and get notified when they attempt access or even require a response from my phone to buzz them in . This can also be used to limit access within the house once a service provider has entered.

A family budget feature provides that a family member in a family group can allocate electronic funds to any of the other family members or to non family members. The family budget feature can also link with third party applications to purchase and distribute such things as tickets and gift cards to any of the other family members in the family group. The family budget may be implemented in conjunction with an eWallet application and can be implemented for vacation shopping pre paid passes gift cards and to keep track of electronic receipts. In embodiments the family budget feature can be implemented as part of the family hub user interface with a client device application.

The mobile device includes the family hub manager of the family coordination architecture and is implemented to manage a family hub that is a private shared space of the family members. The family hub manager can provision the family hub based on designated family member classes that define relationships between the family members such as Parent Grandparent Teen Child and any other family member class. The family hub manager can then coordinate shared family information shared family communications and shared family activities based on the designated family member classes associated with the family members in the family hub.

As described with reference to the family hub user interfaces and shown in a family hub user interface can be implemented to display family information that includes a shared calendar shared pictures shared contacts and a shared list. The shared calendar shared pictures shared contacts and shared list are all editable by any of the family members from associated devices and any of the family members may have more than one device from which the family hub features and information can be accessed. The family hub manager can initiate posting calendar updates to the shared calendar as notice events that are displayed on the family hub user interface. The family hub user interface can also display the communications that include private group messages between the family members. The family hub manager also can be implemented to setup a wireless data connection when initiated by a family member via one of the associated devices and then share settings for the wireless data connection with the associated devices on the family hub user interface.

At a family hub is provisioned as a private shared space of family members. For example the family hub manager of the family coordination architecture that is implemented at the mobile device provisions the family hub as the private shared space of the family members and the family hub is provisioned based on designated family member classes that define relationships between the family members. Similarly the various client devices can each implement a family hub manager of a family hub.

At family information communications and activities associated with the family members in the family hub are coordinated. For example the family hub manager implemented at the mobile device coordinates the shared family information the shared family communications and the shared family activities based on the designated family member classes. Similarly the family hub manager at the client device coordinates family information communications and activities associated with the family members in the family hub.

At a family hub user interface is displayed on associated devices. For example the mobile device includes the integrated display device on which a user interface is displayed such as a portion of the family hub user interface . The family hub user interface includes the displayed family information communications and activities associated with the family members that correspond to the associated devices and the family information includes at least a shared calendar shared pictures shared contacts and a shared list. Similarly the various client devices each include an integrated display device to display a family hub user interface.

At a shared calendar shared pictures shared contacts and or a shared list is edited based on input from a family member at one of the associated devices. For example the family hub manager implemented at the mobile device receives an input from a family member via an associated device to edit the shared calendar shared pictures shared contacts and or shared list that is displayed on the family hub user interface. Similarly the family hub manager at the client device edits and or updates the family information that is displayed as part of a family hub user interface.

At calendar updates to the shared calendar are posted as notice events that are displayed on the family hub user interface and at the communications are displayed that include private group messages between the family members. For example the family hub manager implemented at the mobile device posts calendar updates as notice events that display on the family hub user interface and the family hub manager initiates displaying private group messages between the family members on the family hub user interface . Similarly the family hub manager at the client device posts notice events for display and initiates displaying the private group messages between family members on a family hub user interface.

At settings for a wireless data connection are shared with the associated devices on the family hub user interface. For example the family hub manager implemented at the mobile device can setup a wireless data connection when initiated by a family member via one of the associated devices and then shares the settings for the wireless data connection with the associated devices on the family hub user interface . Similarly the family hub manager at the client device can setup a wireless data connection and share the settings for the wireless data connection with the associated devices on a family hub user interface.

Although embodiments of private interaction hubs have been described in language specific to features and or methods the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of private interaction hubs.

