---

title: Dynamic service resource control
abstract: The embodiments may provide a data processing apparatus for controlling service resource allocation. The data processing apparatus including a resource hints controller configured to obtain a resource control request before a task is to be executed on a virtual machine having resources allocated to a processing unit, a memory unit and a storage unit. The resource hints controller is configured to obtain a usage of the resources allocated to at least one of the processing unit, the memory unit and the storage unit of the virtual machine, and increase the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit, the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the resource control request based on the usage being equal to or above a threshold level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223623&OS=09223623&RS=09223623
owner: BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
number: 09223623
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
Virtualization is used in datacenters for the hosting of business services which may be realized with multiple applications because virtualization offers increased server utilization and management capabilities. Typically a distributed computing network includes a plurality of server and client devices connected via a network in order to provide a business service to customers by using the applications and clients. For example an Airlines Ticketing System is a business service provided to customers to book tickets search airlines and generate reports. Such a business service may be realized by deploying the applications across a number of tiers e.g. a presentation tier web server tier database tier reports generation tier . In one example a first server associated with a second tier may host the web server application and a second server in tier below the first server may host the database associated with the web server application. The first and second servers may be running on virtual machines VMs . A virtual machine manager VMM or hypervisor may divide its physical hardware resources and allocate parts of the hardware resources to the first VM server and the second VM database server for example. The resources of each VM server may include a number of resources such as a processor or computer processing unit CPU memory or cache and disk and possibly other resources. Each VM server may run on a virtual imitation of the hardware layer with a guest operating system and applications executing on the guest operating system as if the VM is operating on real physical resources.

When the customer application is executing one or more resource demanding tasks e.g. handling a relatively large amount of records across the VM servers the system may suffer from spikes or resource starvation situations. When executing a resource demanding task the usage of the CPU and memory may exceed 100 which may lead to resource starvation situations and slow down all the tasks in the affected servers as well as dependent VMs in other tiers and the entire customer business service application. Conventional methods utilize extrinsic monitoring based techniques on the resources to repair resource starvations. However these extrinsic monitoring based techniques are reactive mechanisms that increase CPU or memory and do not react in a relatively sufficient amount of time to suppress the sudden spikes. Further these techniques may repair the resource starvation issue after at least some damage is done to the system. Furthermore resource starvation situations that occur in one VM server e.g. the first VM server may cause prolonged non responsiveness cascaded problems with dependent VM servers in other tiers e.g. the second VM database server and entire customer business service.

The embodiments provide a data processing apparatus for controlling service resource allocation. The data processing apparatus including at least one processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions executable by the at least one processor. The instructions configured to implement a resource hints controller configured to obtain a resource control request before a task is to be executed on a virtual machine having resources allocated to a processing unit a memory unit and a storage unit. The resource hints controller is configured to obtain a usage of the resources allocated to at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the virtual machine and increase the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the resource control request based on the usage being equal to or above a threshold level.

The resource hints controller is configured to obtain the resource control request includes receiving the resource control request over a network from the virtual machine before the task is to be executed.

The resource hints controller is configured to obtain the usage of the resources allocated to one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit includes receiving monitoring information over a network from the virtual machine. The monitoring information may provide the usage of the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit.

According to one embodiment the resource hints controller configured to receive a task complete response over a network from the virtual machine where the task complete response indicates that the task has been executed. Also the resource hints controller is configured to decrease the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the task complete response.

The resource hints controller may be configured to increase resources allocated to a secondary virtual machine that is dependent on the virtual machine where the secondary virtual machine is in the same or different tier than the virtual machine.

The embodiments provide a system for controlling service resource allocation. The system may include a virtual machine being associated with an operating system and resources allocated to a memory unit a processing unit and a storage unit. The memory unit is configured to store computer executable instructions. The processing unit is configured to execute a plurality of tasks of an application being executed on the operating system according to the computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may include one or more embedded resource control hints. The virtual machine may be configured to obtain an embedded resource control hint from the computer executable instructions before executing a task of the plurality of tasks where the resources allocated to at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit are increased based on the embedded resource control hint and the processing unit is configured to execute the task using the increased resources.

The virtual machine is configured to transmit a resource control request over a network to a resource hints controller in response to the embedded resource control hint and the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit are increased in response to the resource control request.

The virtual machine is configured to obtain a secondary embedded resource control hint from the computer executable instructions after the task is executed and the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit are decreased based on the secondary embedded resource control hint.

The virtual machine is configured to transmit a task completion response over a network to a resource hints controller after the task is executed and the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit are decreased based on the task completion response.

The system may further include a resource hints controller configured to increase the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit including receiving a resource control request before the task is to be executed in response to the embedded resource control hint obtaining a usage of the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit and increasing the resources allocated to at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the resource control request based on the usage being equal to or above a threshold level.

The resource hints controller is configured to increase the resources allocated to a secondary virtual machine in response to the resource control request where the secondary virtual machine is in the same or different tier than the virtual machine.

The application may be a multi tier application and the resource hints controller the virtual machine the secondary virtual machine may realize a logical service.

The embodiments provide a method for controlling service resource allocation. The method may include obtaining a resource control request before a task is to be executed on a virtual machine having resources allocated to a processing unit a memory unit and a storage unit obtaining a usage of the resources allocated to at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the virtual machine and increasing the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the resource control request based on the usage being equal to or above a threshold level.

The obtaining a resource control request may include receiving the resource control request over a network from the virtual machine before the task is to be executed. The obtaining the usage of the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit may include receiving monitoring information over a network from the virtual machine. The monitoring information may provide the usage of the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit.

The method may further include receiving a task complete response over a network from the virtual machine where the task complete response indicates that the task has been executed and decreasing the resources allocated to the at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit in response to the task complete response.

The method may further include increasing resources allocated to a secondary virtual machine that is dependent on the virtual machine where the secondary virtual machine is in the same or different tier than the virtual machine.

The embodiments may also include a method for controlling service resource allocation. The method may include obtaining an embedded resource control hint from computer executable instructions before executing a task of a plurality of tasks associated with an application executing on an operating system of a virtual machine where the virtual machine has resources allocated to a memory unit a processing unit and a storage unit. The method may include increasing the resources allocated to at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit based on the embedded resource control hint and executing the task using the increased resources.

The method may include transmitting over a network a resource control request to a resource hints controller in response to the embedded resource control hint and the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit are increased in response to the resource control request.

The method may further include obtaining a secondary embedded resource control hint from the computer executable instructions after the task is executed and deceasing the resources allocated to the at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit based on the secondary embedded resource control hint.

The plurality of servers may include a first server a second server a third server and a fourth server which are arranged in a plurality of tiers. Although only depicts four servers the system may include any number of servers. The first server may be associated with a first tier of an application solution provided to the client devices . For example the first server may host a web service and the database services of the web service may be provided by the second server which is associated with a second tier of an application solution. In addition the second tier may also include the third server . The third tier of an application solution may include the fourth server . The embodiments encompass any number of tiers and associated servers. In one embodiment each server may be a virtual machine having allocated hardware resources as further explained below.

The virtualization server may manage the plurality of servers . For example the virtualization server may include the hypervisor hardware resources and virtualization operating system software. The virtualization server may create the virtual machines such as the plurality of servers and dynamically allocate the virtualization software and hardware resources of the virtualization server to each server . In this context the virtualization software may include a layer of software installed directly on the allocated hardware resources. As such each server may be associated with hardware resources such as a processing unit e.g. in having one or more processors a memory unit e.g. in a network interface e.g. in and a storage unit e.g. in . Further each server may include a monitoring unit e.g. in that monitors a usage of the resources. These features are further detailed in .

The storage resource database may be any type of network storage. In one embodiment the storage resources database may be a network attached storage NAS which is a file level computer data storage connected to the network providing data access to the servers and indirectly to the client devices . Similar to the hardware resources of the virtualization server the virtualization server may allocate the storage resources to each of the servers e.g. storage unit in .

The servers the resource hints controller the client devices the virtualization server Hypervisor VMM and the storage resource database may communicate with each other via the network . The network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or any other type of network known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The client devices may include any type of computing device such as a personal computer laptop smartphone or any other type having a processor and memory. The client devices may communicate with each other and with one or more of the servers via the network according to methods that are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

As indicated above the first server may include an application such as a web service application operating on a guest operating system e.g. in of the first server . According to an embodiment the application may include instructions for carrying out tasks or processes associated with the application. The instructions of the application may include embedded resource control hints which prompt the resources hints controller to determine whether the resources of the server or the dependent second server should be increased as further explained below. For example the instructions may include one or more embedded resources control hints within the application architecture or programming code. According to an embodiment the embedded resource control hints are inserted into the instructions before tasks or processes that are known to require a significant amount of resources which may cause spikes or starvations within the first server the second server or any other server in the system . Furthermore the embedded resource control hints may be inserted into the instructions after the resource demand task is complete. When the first server reads the embedded resource control hint after the task is completed the embedded resource control hint may prompt the resources hints controller to decrease the resources to lower levels or its original state e.g. before the resources were increased .

The embedded resource control hints may include information that identifies the particular resource demanding task. It should be noted that the task may be associated with a task executed by the first server Server A or one of the dependent servers such as the second server Server B associated with the second tier. Before the first server executes a particular resource demanding task the first server may read the embedded resource control hint. Upon discovery of the resource control hint the first server may send a resource control request over the network to the resource hints controller . The resource control request may identify the resource demanding task. In one embodiment the resource control request may include monitoring information that indicates a current usage of the resources such as the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the first server as well as the current usage of any dependent server such as the second server . Alternatively each server may periodically transmit its respective monitoring information over the network to the resources hints controller .

The server may include the resource hints controller . The resource hints controller may include a hints configuration file that includes instructions for carrying out the functions of the resource hints controller . Further the resource hints controller may include one or more processes and have a computer readable storage medium that may store the hints configuration file . The hints configuration file may be configurable by an administrator who may adjust the values and conditions in order to modify the way the resource hints controller scales up down the resources associated with the affected servers in multiple tiers due to execution of a particular task. As a result the administrator may have the flexibility to change the hints configuration file at run time when the resource hints controller is deployed and running. In one example the resource hints controller may receive the resource control request and determine whether or not to increase the resources of the first server as well as the dependent second server according to the conditions provided in the hints configuration file .

In one embodiment the resource hints controller may compare the usage of at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit from the monitoring information to a threshold level. Also the resource hints controller may function according to any type of condition specified in the hints configuration file . If the usage is equal to or above the threshold level the resource hints controller may determine to increase the resources of at least one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit of the first server . The increased amount may be specified in the hints configuration file . If the usage is below the threshold level the resource hints controller may determine not to increase the resources of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the first server . In addition the resource hints controller may determine whether to increase the resources of any servers dependent on the first server for executing the resource demanding task. For example the resource hints controller may determine that the resource demanding task also involves the second server . As such the resource hints controller may compare the current usage of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the second server and determine to increase the resources allocated to these components if the current use exceeds a threshold level.

If the resource hints controller determines to increase the resources of one or more of the servers the resource hints controller may notify the virtualization server so that the virtualization server may increase the resources of the one or more servers in the manner specified in the hints configuration file .

Thereafter the first server and or the second server execute the resource demanding task using the increased resources. After the first server and or the second server execute the resource demanding task using the increased resources the first server may read another embedded control resource hint which prompts the first server to transmit a task completion response to the resource hints controller . In response to the task complete response the resource hints controller may decrease the resources allocated to the processing unit the memory unit and or the storage unit of the first server and or the second server . The resources may be decreased to a level before the resource demanding task or any other level specified in the hints configuration file . As such the system may proactively adjust the resources of the appropriate servers before the resource hungry tasks cause any damage to the system in terms of spikes and outages.

Also referring to the third server associated with the second tier may include an application executing on its guest operating system which may include embedded resource control hints for tasks relating the third server and involving the storage resource database or the individual storage units associated with the servers e.g. of . For example the resource hints controller may adjust the resources of the third server and the storage resource database in the same manner as described above.

Further each server may be associated with a storage unit relating to the storage resource database . For example the virtualization server may allocate to each of the servers network storage space from the storage resource database which is illustrated by the storage unit for each server . Also as shown in the logical service may be implemented across a series of tiers. For example the first server may have dependent servers such as the second server and the fourth server which are associated with the second tier. The third tier may include the third server . However it is noted that the embodiments may encompass any number of tiers and associated servers .

Before the first server executes a particular resource demanding task the first server may read the embedded resource control hint from the application . Upon discovery of the resource control hint referring to communication the first server may send a resource control request over the network to the resource hints controller . The resource control request may identify the resource demanding task. In one embodiment the resource control request may include monitoring information that indicates a current usage of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit of the first server as well as the current usage of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit of any dependent server such as the second server . Alternatively the monitoring unit for the first server and the second server may periodically transmit its respective monitoring information over the network to the resource hints controller .

As shown in the resource hints controller may include the hints configuration file as explained above. Referring to communication the hints configuration file is read when the resource hints controller starts or when the file has changed. Depending on the contents of the configuration file the resource hints controller may determine whether or not to increase the resources of the first server and the second server .

In one embodiment the resource hints controller may compare the usage of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit for the first server and the second server to a threshold level. For example the resource hints controller may compare the usage of the processing unit for the first server to a first threshold level the usage of the memory unit of the first server to a second threshold level the usage of the storage unit to a third threshold the usage of the processing unit for the second server to a fourth threshold level the usage of the memory unit of the second server to a fifth threshold level and or the usage of the storage unit of the second server to a sixth threshold level. The first through sixth threshold levels may be the same or different. Also the resource hints controller does not necessarily have to make six independent determinations where the resource hints controller may automatically increase the resources allocated to the memory unit the processing unit and or the storage unit for one or more servers if it is determined to increase one of the memory units or one of the processing units . If the usage is equal to or above the threshold level the resource hints controller may determine to increase the resources of one of the memory unit the processing unit and the storage unit of the first server and or the second server . The increased amount may be specified in the hints configuration file . If the usage is below the threshold level the resource hints controller may determine not to increase the resources of the processing unit the memory unit and or the storage unit of the first server and or the second server .

Referring to communication the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the memory unit of the first server . For example although not shown in the resource hints controller may notify the virtualization server to increase the memory unit of the first server . Referring to communication the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the processing unit of the first server . For example although not shown in the resource hints controller may notify the virtualization server to increase the processing unit of the first server . Referring to communication the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the processing unit of the second server . For example the Resource hints controller may notify the virtualization server to increase the processing unit of the second server . Also in this example as the hints configuration file is configured to increase only the processing unit of server the resource hints controller will not increase the memory unit of server . Which units of which servers are to be increased depends on how the hints configuration file is configured. The resource hints controller may always controls the memory unit the processing unit or storage unit by invoking Virtualization Server . Further the resource hints controller may increase the storage units associated with the servers in the same manner specified above.

Thereafter the first server and or the second server execute the resource demanding task using the increased resources. Referring to communication after the first server and or the second server execute the resource demanding task using the increased resources the first server may read another embedded control resource hint which prompts the first server to transmit a task complete response to the resource hints controller . The resource hints controller already has the information of the hints configuration file as the resource control processor has already read the hints configuration file . As such in response to the task complete response the resource hints controller per the instructions in hints configuration file may decrease the resources allocated to the processing unit the memory unit and or the storage unit of the first server and or the second server . For example referring to communication the resource hints controller may decrease the memory unit by notifying the virtualization server through any suitable application programming interface API . Also the resource hints controller may decrease the resources of the processing unit of the first server and decrease the resources of the processing unit of the second server . In one embodiment because the resource hints controller did not increase the memory unit of server the resource hints controller may not decrease the memory unit of server . As such the system may proactively adjust the resources of the appropriate servers before the resource hungry tasks cause any damage to the system in terms of spikes and outages.

For example as explained above the first server may read an embedded resource control hint and transmit a resource control request to the resource hints controller . In response to the resource control request as shown in the resource hints controller may increase the memory unit and the processing unit .

A process of a resource hints controller may be started . For example the resource hints controller may be already started when the VMs in the application are started.

A hints configuration file may be read . For example after the resource hints controller starts the resource hints controller may read the hints configuration file . The hints configuration file may include instructions for the conditions of scaling up scaling down the resources of the servers . The details of the functions performed by the resource hints controller according to the instructions of the hints configuration file are further explained with reference to and .

An embedded resource control hint may be read . For example the first server may read an embedded resource control hint before a task is to be executed. The task may be a resource demanding task that requires additional resources.

A resource control request may be transmitted to a resource hints controller in response to the embedded resource control hint . For example the first server may transmit the resource control request to the resource hints controller over the network in response to the embedded resource control hint. The resource control request may identify the particular resource demanding task.

A resource control request may be received . For example the resource hints controller may receive the resource control request over the network from the first server . Subsequently the resource hints controller may perform one or more determinations related to increasing the resources allocated to the first server and or any dependent server as further explained below.

Monitoring information may be collected . For example the resource hints controller may receive monitoring information from the first server and or any dependent servers . The monitoring information may include a usage of at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit . The monitoring information may be received periodically or alternatively the monitoring information may be received with the resource control request. The resource hints controller may utilize the monitoring information in order to determine whether to increase the resources of the first server and or any dependent server as further explained below.

A compute scale up condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a compute scale up condition is met. The compute scale up condition may include determining whether a current usage of the processing unit is above a threshold level. However the compute scale up condition may include any type of condition for scaling up resources.

If the compute scale up condition is determined as being met resources allocated to a processing unit and or memory unit of a first server may be increased . For example the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the processing unit and or the memory unit of the first server .

A memory scale up condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a memory scale up condition is met. The memory scale up condition may include determining whether a current usage of the memory unit is above a threshold level. However the memory scale up condition may include any type of condition for scaling up resources.

If the memory scale up condition on a dependent server is determined as being met resources allocated to a memory unit of a dependent server e.g. Server B may be increased . For example the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the memory unit of the second server .

A storage scale up condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a storage scale up condition is met. The storage scale up condition may include determining whether a current usage of the storage unit is above a threshold level. However the storage scale up condition may include any type of condition for scaling up resources.

If the storage scale up condition on a dependent server is determined as being met resources allocated to a storage unit of a dependent server e.g. Server B may be increased . For example the resource hints controller may increase the resources allocated to the storage unit of the second server .

After the resources are increased a response may be transmitted to a first server . For example the resource hints controller may transmit a response to the first server indicating that the increased resource allocation is completed.

A task may be executed using the increased resources . For example the first server as well as any dependent servers may execute the task using the increased resources.

A first server and or any dependent servers may have finished executing the resource demanding task using the increased resources . For example the first server and or any dependent servers may have finished executing the resource demanding task using the increased resources.

A task completion response may be transmitted to a resource hints controller in response to the completion of the resource demanding task . For example the first server may transmit the task completion response to the resource hints controller over the network in response to completion of the resource demanding task.

A task completion response may be received . For example the resource hints controller may receive the task completion response over the network from the first server . Subsequently the resource hints controller may perform one or more determinations related to decreasing the resources allocated to the first server and or any dependent server as further explained below.

Monitoring information may be collected . For example the resource hints controller may receive monitoring information from the first server and or any dependent servers . The monitoring information may include a usage of at least one of the processing unit the memory unit and the storage unit for the first server and or any dependent servers . The monitoring information may be transmitted periodically or alternatively the monitoring information may be included in the task completion response. The resource hints controller may utilize the monitoring information in order to determine whether to decrease the resources of the first server and or any dependent server . Also the embodiments encompass the situation where the resource hints controller does not utilize monitoring information for decreasing the resources of the first server and or any dependent servers . For example the resource hints controller may automatically decrease the resources of the first server and or any dependent servers in a manner specified in the hints configuration file .

A compute scale down condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a compute scale down condition is met. The compute scale down condition may include determining whether a current usage of the processing unit and or memory unit is below a threshold level. However the compute scale down condition may include any type of condition for scaling down resources.

If the compute scale down condition is determined as being met resources allocated to a processing unit and or memory unit of a first server may be decreased . For example the resource hints controller may decrease the resources allocated to the processing unit and or the memory unit of the first server .

A memory scale down condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a memory scale down condition is met. The memory scale down condition may include determining whether a current usage of the memory unit is below a threshold level. However the memory scale down condition may include any type of condition for scaling down resources.

If the memory scale down condition on a dependent server is determined as being met resources allocated to a memory unit of a dependent server e.g. Server B may be decreased . For example the resource hints controller may decrease the resources allocated to the memory unit of the second server .

A storage scale down condition is determined as being met . For example the resource hints controller may determine whether a storage scale down condition on a dependent server is met. The storage scale down condition may include determining whether a current usage of the storage unit is below a threshold level. However the storage scale down condition may include any type of condition for scaling down resources.

If the storage scale down condition is determined as being met resources allocated to a storage unit of a dependent server e.g. Server B may be decreased . For example the resource hints controller may decrease the resources allocated to the storage unit of the second server .

The system implementing such features may proactively increase processing units memory units and storage units of virtual machines before a particular resource demanding task is executed. As a result the system may avoid spikes because the resources are dynamically allocated which makes the entire application stack more scalable in dealing with dependent server requirements. Further the various features of the present disclosure enables developers architects and also administrators to control the scaling up scaling down of resources in a controlled non invasive manner and hence makes the logical service proactively scale up scale down.

Implementations of the various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art.

