---

title: Fraud detection system audit capability
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to a fraud detection system that records an audit log of modifications made by a user to a selection of fraud detection rules in a merchant profile. The audit log contains details of the modifications and the user associated with the modifications. A search can be conducted on the audit log to determine details of modifications made to a merchant profile within the fraud detection system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129321&OS=09129321&RS=09129321
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 09129321
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120419
---
This application is a non provisional application of and claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 481 141 filed on Apr. 29 2011 which is herein incorporated by references in its entirety for all purposes.

As conducting transactions over the Internet has become increasingly popular the problems and challenges that arise for merchants have also increased. Online transactions create greater difficulty in determining which transactions are legitimate and which transactions are fraudulent. Stolen payment data may be used by a fraudster to purchase goods or services from a merchant. The use of stolen payment data may not be immediately detected by the merchant and may not be known until a significant time after the goods or services have been provided to the fraudster. Thus the resulting fraud can cost the merchant significant amounts of money in the form of lost revenue and lost stock.

Some merchants take it upon themselves to manually review each and every order and expend significant time and resources in order to determine whether transactions are legitimate or fraudulent. As transaction volumes increase this becomes an increasingly unsustainable model for merchants. As a result merchants may find it necessary to incorporate an automated fraud detection system into their transaction processing system.

Some fraud detection systems can include fraud detection rules that evaluate transactions and assist merchants in deciding whether a specific transaction should be accepted or rejected.

However even with sophisticated fraud detection systems in place a merchant can still be compromised and be responsible for the costs of fraudulent transactions e.g. the loss of goods and or the loss of consideration for those goods . For example a fraud detection rule may have been intentionally or accidentally modified so as to accept transactions that would ordinarily not be accepted or to misidentify transactions that should be rejected. The merchant may have no way of determining when a fraud rule was modified or who may have done the modification.

Further new and enhanced methods of detecting fraud with greater merchant services have become increasingly necessary to provide greater security and functionality.

Embodiments of the invention address the above problems and other problems individually and collectively.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for processing search parameters through a fraud detection system configured to record and provide an audit log containing modifications to a selection of fraud detection rules and users associated with each modification.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to a method comprising receiving a modification to a selection of fraud detection rules from a client computer operated by a user at a server computer. The modification is recorded in a database by the server computer and the user is associated with the modification. The method may also comprise searching the database by the server computer for modifications associated with a first fraud detection rule and returning a search result based on the modifications to the first fraud detection rule.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a server computer comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The computer readable medium comprises code executable by the processor for implementing a method. The method comprises receiving a modification to a selection of fraud detection rules from a client computer operated by a user at the server computer. The modification is recorded in a database by the server computer and the user is associated with the modification. The method may also comprise searching the database by the server computer for modifications associated with a first fraud detection rule and returning a search result based on the modifications to the first fraud detection rule.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a method comprising transmitting by a client computer to a fraud detection system via a communications network a set of search parameters. The search parameters are transmitted for conducting a search for modifications to a selection of fraud detection rules in a merchant profile in a fraud rules modification database. The method may also comprise receiving at the client computer from the fraud detection system a search result based on the set of search parameters.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a client computer comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The computer readable medium comprises code executable by the processor for implementing a method. The method comprises transmitting by the client computer to a fraud detection system via a communications network a set of search parameters. The search parameters are transmitted for conducting a search for modifications to a selection of fraud detection rules in a merchant profile in a fraud rules modification database. The method may also comprise receiving at the client computer from the fraud detection system a search result based on the set of search parameters

These and other embodiments of the invention are described in further detail below with reference to the Figures and the Detailed Description.

Prior to discussing embodiments of the invention some descriptions of some terms may be helpful in understanding embodiments of the invention.

The term server computer may include a powerful computer or cluster of computers. For example the server computer can be a large mainframe a minicomputer cluster or a group of servers functioning as a unit. In one example the server computer may be a database server coupled to a Web server. The server computer may be coupled to a database and may include any hardware software other logic or combination of the preceding for servicing the requests from one or more client computers. The server computer may comprise one or more computational apparatuses and may use any of a variety of computing structures arrangements and compilations for servicing the requests from one or more client computers.

The term client computer may include any suitable computational apparatus. The client computer may be an apparatus operated by a consumer a user associated with a merchant or any other individual. The client computer may use any suitable wired or wireless network including the Internet in order to communicate with other systems. For example a consumer client computer may be used by a consumer to interact with a merchant Internet storefront in order to conduct a transaction. A merchant client computer may be used by a user associated with a merchant to interact with other merchant computer systems and a fraud detection system.

The term fraud detection system may include a single computer or a network of suitable processing entities e.g. computers that may have the ability to receive process and evaluate transaction details to provide fraud detection services. The fraud detection system may have or operate at least a server computer and may include a plurality of databases. The fraud detection system may include a selection of fraud detection rules and merchant profiles that can be created modified and or deleted. The fraud detection system may further record an audit log of modifications made to customizable settings the selection of fraud detection rules and merchant profiles that reside within the system.

The term fraud detection rule may refer to a rule in the fraud detection system and may include a customizable rule. Each fraud detection rule may allow customization as to name description category status as a core rule and for further processes or actions to be taken if the fraud detection rule is triggered. Each fraud detection rule may further allow for rule conditions to be established based on a number of criteria.

The term merchant profile may include a selection of fraud detection rules and settings established by a merchant with the fraud detection system. A merchant profile may be added modified or deleted in the fraud detection system. The merchant profile may include customizable settings for name profile description and a selection of fraud detection rules. The merchant profile may be associated with one or more users who have access to modify the selection of fraud detection rules contained in the merchant profile.

The term modification may include additions deletions conversions or any alterations to a preexisting fraud detection rule. It may also refer to additions deletions conversions or any alternations to a merchant profile. Modification may also refer to the creation of new fraud detection rules or merchant profiles. For example the modification may be to add or delete a condition within a fraud detection rule and or the modification may be to add or delete an entire fraud detection rule within a merchant profile. Modifications may also refer to changes to text fields and setting contained within a fraud detection rule or merchant profile.

The term database may include any hardware software firmware or combination of the preceding for storing and facilitating retrieval of information. Also the database may use any of a variety of data structures arrangements and compilations to store and facilitate retrieval of information.

The term fraud rules modification database may refer to a database in the fraud detection system that stores information regarding modifications made to settings and or conditions in fraud detection rules and or merchant profiles. The fraud rules modification database may further store information regarding the user ID of users that effected the modifications to fraud detection rules and or merchant profiles.

The term recording may include storing information regarding a modification to a fraud detection rule or a merchant profile into a database. Recording may also include storing information as to the user ID of a user who effected the modification to the fraud detection rule and or merchant profile. The recording may be accomplished by the server computer in the fraud detection system and may be stored in a fraud rules modification database. For example if a given user modifies a fraud detection rule the name of the rule being modified the details of the modification the date and time of the modification the user ID logged into the fraud detection system as well as other pertinent information can be recorded in the fraud rules modification database for future purposes.

The term user may refer to an individual or entity who can access the fraud detection system using credentials e.g. merchant ID user ID and password that the individual or entity is authorized to use. As used herein user may also refer to an individual or entity that is not authorized to access the fraud detection system but has access to authorized credentials allowing them access to the fraud detection system. The user can access merchant profiles and fraud detection rules and make modifications to merchant profiles and or fraud detection rules that are then associated with the user ID logged into the fraud detection system and stored in the fraud rules modification database.

The term search parameters may refer to constraints for a search. They may include settings and text fields that a user can customize in order to conduct an audit log search of the fraud rules modification database. For example search parameters may include but are not limited to a date range a category a subcategory and user name and keyword fields. The user may conduct a search of the fraud rules modification database once the user has established the search parameters for conducting the search.

The term search result may refer to a result of a search for information. It may include information displayed as an output of an audit log search of the fraud rules modification database. The search result may include information as to modifications made to fraud detection rules and or merchant profiles as well as the corresponding identification information for the user logged into the system that made the modifications e.g. merchant ID organization ID and user ID . The search result may further include the date of the modification the subcategory of the fraud detection rule modified and a keyword which may indicate the name of the rule or condition modified.

The term parsing may refer to any suitable analysis process for analyzing data. In some embodiments a computer may parse search results presented in an audit log search. For example the fraud detection system can narrow the outputted search results to include only those modifications made by a specific user. When a user conducts a search the user may further enter a set of characters e.g. a user ID a fraud detection rule etc. that is used by the fraud detection system in evaluating the outputted search results. The fraud detection system may then remove any search results that do not include the characters entered.

Example embodiments are typically implemented in the context of a financial transaction. Therefore prior to further discussing an audit log search capability within a fraud detection system a brief description of transaction processing will be presented.

An exemplary system for transaction processing can be seen in . The system includes a consumer a consumer payment device a consumer client computer a merchant computer a user a merchant client computer a fraud detection system a merchant processor computer an acquirer computer a payment processing network and an issuer computer . In a typical transaction a consumer may purchase goods or services at a merchant associated with the merchant computer using a consumer payment device . The transactions details are then sent to the merchant processor computer and to the acquirer computer . The acquirer computer can communicate with an issuer computer via a payment processing network for additional transaction processing. For simplicity of illustration a certain number of components are shown is shown in . It is understood however that embodiments of the invention may include more than one of each component. In addition some embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all of the components shown in . Also the components in may communicate via any suitable communication medium including the internet using any suitable communication protocol.

The consumer client computer may communicate with the merchant computer via a communications medium such as a network e.g. the Internet . Similarly the merchant client computer may communicate with the fraud detection system via a communications medium such as a network e.g. the Internet .

The consumer may be an individual or an organization such as a business that is capable of purchasing goods or services. The user may be a merchant an employee of the merchant or any other individual who has access to the merchant client computer .

The consumer payment device may be in any suitable form. For example suitable consumer payment devices can be hand held and compact so that it can fit into a consumer s wallet and or pocket e.g. pocket sized . The consumer payment device can include a processor and memory input devices and output devices operatively coupled to the processor. Specific examples of consumer payment devices include cellular or wireless phones personal digital assistants PDAs pagers portable computers smart cards and the like. The consumer payment devices can also be debit devices e.g. a debit card credit devices e.g. a credit card or stored value devices e.g. a pre paid or stored value card .

The consumer can use the consumer client computer which is communicatively coupled to the merchant computer via the communications medium in order to conduct a transaction with the merchant. The consumer client computer may be in any suitable form. Example of consumer mobile devices include any device capable of accessing the Internet such as a personal computer cellular or wireless phones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet PCs and handheld specialized readers. The consumer client computer transmits data through the communications medium to the merchant computer . In some embodiments of the invention the consumer payment device and the consumer client computer may be a single device.

As depicted in the fraud detection system may comprise a server computer A comprising a user authentication module B a rule modification module C a user association module D a transaction analyzer module E an audit search module F a data output module G a display module H and a reports module I . The various modules may be embodied by computer code residing on computer readable media.

The server computer A may be operatively coupled to one or more databases. The one or more databases may comprise a user database J a fraud rules database K a merchant profiles database L and a fraud rules modification database M .

The user authentication module B handles the verification of the authorization credentials for a user e.g. merchant ID user name password . The user authentication module B may access a user database J in determining whether a user seeking access to the fraud detection system is an authorized user. For example when presented with credentials the user authentication module B may access the user database J to determine whether the provided user name is in the user database J and whether the provided password corresponds to the password linked to the user name.

The rule modification module C receives modifications from a user to fraud detection rules or to a merchant profile. The rule modification module C may further access the merchant profiles database L to store modifications made to a merchant profile. For example when a user makes a modification the rule modification module C may access a merchant profile database L associated with the authorization credentials entered by the user . The rule modification module C may also access the fraud rules database K to access pre established fraud detection rules to add to the merchant profile or to store newly created fraud detection rules created by the user for the merchant profile. In some embodiments of the invention new fraud detection rules created by the user are stored in the merchant profiles database L with the corresponding merchant profile.

The user association module D may associate any modifications made by a user with the authorization credentials entered by the user . For example if the user logged into the fraud detection system with the user name user the user association module D may record all the modifications made by the user associate the modifications with the user name user and store the data in the fraud rules modification database M .

The transaction analyzer module E may evaluate transaction data received by the fraud detection system from the merchant processor computer . In embodiments of the invention the fraud detection system receives the authorization response message from the merchant processor computer and the message is analyzed by the transaction analyzer module E . If the result from the transaction analyzer module E is an ACCEPT the transaction between the merchant and the consumer can be completed. If the result from the transaction analyzer module E is a REJECT the fraud detection system would return a message to be presented to the consumer that the consumer may be contacted if there are any issues. For example the consumer may receive a message stating Thank you for your order. We will contact you if there are any issues. In embodiments of the invention the message does not indicate that a REJECT was determined for the transaction as the consumer may be attempting to conduct fraudulent transactions. If the result from the transaction analyzer module E is a REVIEW the fraud detection system would hold the transaction until it can be further reviewed and it is determined whether it should be accepted or rejected. In some embodiments the fraud detection system can automatically invoke a settlement upon an accept decision by the transaction analyzer module E .

The audit search module F handles the audit log search function of the fraud detection system . The audit search module F receives input from a user comprising search parameters to conduct an audit log search. The audit search module F processes the search parameters and conducts a search of the fraud rules modification database L .

The data output module G outputs the results of the audit log search conducted by the audit search module F to be displayed to the user .

The display module H displays the layout of the fraud detection system . In embodiments of the invention the fraud detection system is accessed as a website over a communications medium e.g. the Internet via an Internet enabled device capable of displaying HTML. Other embodiments allow the fraud detection system to be displayed in other suitable manners on other suitable display devices.

The reports module I compiles the data obtained from the fraud detection system from analyzing transactions. In embodiments of the invention the reports module I can provide detailed statistics and data for the merchant on the performance of the merchant s profile and selection of fraud detection rules. For example the reports module I can prepare a report indicating the number of times each fraud detection rule was triggered by a transaction. It can further indicate the results of analyzed transactions e.g. accepted rejected or sent for further review . In embodiments of the invention the reports module I can present the full transaction details for each transaction received by the fraud detection system .

The user database J may be used by the server computer A to store authentication elements for users. For example the user database J may contain a plurality of merchant IDs and associated user names authorized to access the corresponding merchant profile stored in the merchant profiles database L in the fraud detection system . The user database J may further store passwords associated with each merchant ID and user name authorized to access the fraud detection system .

The fraud rules database K may be used by the server computer A to store fraud detection rules that can be added to merchant profiles. In embodiments a merchant profile can be loaded with pre existing rules contained in the fraud rules database K . The fraud rules database K may further store new rules created by a user .

The merchant profiles database L may be used by the server computer A to store merchant profiles that are customized for each merchant that has created a profile with the fraud detection system . The merchant profile database L may further store fraud detection rules that have been created for a merchant and associated with a merchant profile.

The fraud rules modification database M may be used by the server computer A to store an audit log containing details regarding fraud detection rules modifications made to the fraud detection rules and the user name of the user who made the modifications to the fraud detection rules. The data stored in the fraud rules modification database M may be stored by the rule modification module C and may be searched by the audit search module F .

Returning now to the user can use the merchant client computer which is communicatively coupled to the fraud detection system via the communications medium in order to access the fraud detection system . The merchant client computer may be in any suitable form. Example of merchant client computers include any device capable of accessing the Internet such as a personal computer cellular or wireless phones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet PCs and handheld specialized readers. The merchant client computer transmits data through the communications medium to the fraud detection system . In some embodiments of the invention the merchant computer and the merchant client computer may be a single device.

The merchant computer may be comprised of various modules that may be embodied by computer code residing on computer readable media. It may include any suitable computational apparatus operated by a merchant. Examples of merchant computers may include an access device or an internet merchant computer. The merchant computer may be in any suitable form. Additional examples of merchant computers include any device capable of accessing the Internet such as a personal computer cellular or wireless phones personal digital assistants PDAs tablet PCs and handheld specialized readers. The merchant computer transmits data through the communications medium to the consumer client computer . The merchant computer may also transmit data to a merchant processor computer . In embodiments of the invention the merchant computer receives transaction data from a consumer client computer and transmits the transaction data to the merchant processor computer for fraud evaluation and for further transaction authorization processes. The merchant computer can further communicate with and or receive input from a merchant client computer operated by a user .

As depicted in the merchant processor computer may comprise a server computer A comprising an authorization module B a transaction review module C and a routing module D . The various modules may be embodied by computer code residing on computer readable media.

The authorization module B may generate and process authorization request and response messages. The authorization module B may also determine the appropriate destination for the authorization request and response messages. An authorization request message is a message sent requesting that an issuer computer authorize a financial transaction. An authorization request message may comply with ISO 8583 which is a standard for systems that exchange electronic transactions made by consumers using payment devices. An authorization request message according to other embodiments may comply with other suitable standards. In embodiments of the invention an authorization request message may include among other data a Primary Account Number PAN and expiration date associated with a payment device e.g. credit debit card of the consumer amount of the transaction which may be any type and form of a medium of exchange such a money or points and identification of a merchant e.g. merchant ID . In embodiments an authorization request message is generated by a server computer if the transaction is an e commerce transaction or a Point of Sale POS device if the transaction is a brick and mortar type transaction and is sent to an issuer computer via a payment processing network and an acquirer computer .

The transaction review module C conducts a fraud evaluation for transactions. If the transaction review module C determines that the transaction may be fraudulent the transaction review module C may determine that the transaction should be denied. If the transaction review module C determines that the transaction is not fraudulent the transaction review module C may determine that the transaction should be allowed. If the transaction review module C is unable to determine whether the transaction is fraudulent the transaction review module C can send the transaction for further review.

The routing module D can route transactions to the appropriate destination. If a transaction is determined to be not fraudulent the routing module D can route the message to the acquirer computer for further processing. If the transaction is determined to be fraudulent the routing module D can send the transaction back to the merchant. If the fraud evaluation conducted by the transaction review module C is indeterminate the transaction can be routed to a further review by a person.

An acquirer computer is typically a system for an entity e.g. a bank that has a business relationship with a particular merchant or other entity. An issuer computer is typically a business entity e.g. a bank which maintains financial accounts for the consumer and often issues a consumer payment device such as a credit or debit card to the consumer . Some entities can perform both issuer computer and acquirer computer functions. Embodiments of the invention encompass such single entity issuer acquirers.

As depicted in the payment processing network may comprise a server computer A comprising an application programming interface B an authorization module C a clearing and settlement module D and a routing module E . The various modules may be embodied by computer code residing on computer readable media.

As noted above the payment processing network may have or operate at least a server computer A . In some embodiments the server computer A may be coupled to a database and may include any hardware software other logic or combination of the preceding for servicing the requests from one or more client computers. The server computer A may comprise one or more computational apparatuses and may use any of a variety of computing structures arrangements and compilations for servicing the requests from one or more client computers.

The payment processing network may include data processing subsystems networks and operations used to support and deliver authorization services exception file services and clearing and settlement services. An exemplary payment processing network may include VisaNet . Networks that include VisaNet are able to process credit card transactions debit card transactions and other types of commercial transactions. VisaNet in particular includes an integrated payments system Integrated Payments system which processes authorization requests and a Base II system which performs clearing and settlement services. The payment processing network may use any suitable wired or wireless network including the Internet.

The authorization module C processes authorization request messages and determines the appropriate destination for the authorization request messages. The clearing and settlement module D handles the clearing and settlement of transactions. These modules authenticate user information and organize the settlement process of user accounts between the acquirer computer and the issuer computer . An example of the clearing and settlement module is Base II which provides clearing settlement and other interchange related services to VISA members.

The routing module E handles the routing of authorization request messages from the acquirer computer to the issuer computer and the routing the authorization response messages back from the issuer computer to the acquirer computer .

In step in a typical transaction the consumer engages in a transaction for goods or services at a merchant associated with a merchant computer using a consumer client computer and a consumer payment device such as a credit card or mobile phone. For example the consumer may use their Internet enabled mobile phone to access a merchant website to conduct a transaction using their consumer payment device . In other embodiments the consumer may swipe the credit card through a POS terminal or in another embodiment may take a wireless phone and may pass it near a contactless reader in a POS terminal.

In step a merchant computer receives the transaction from the consumer client computer and may then transmit the transaction details to a merchant processor computer . Transactions details may be comprised of but is not limited to the following consumer name consumer billing address consumer shipping address consumer phone number consumer account number items purchased item prices etc.

In step the merchant processor computer may conduct a fraud analysis and determine whether the transaction should proceed or whether it should be rejected and returned to the merchant computer . The merchant processor computer may use the transaction details in determining whether the transaction may be fraudulent.

In step if the merchant processor computer determines that the transaction details indicate that the transaction may be fraudulent the merchant processor computer may return the transaction to the merchant computer indicating that the transaction is fraudulent and should be declined.

In step if the merchant processor computer determines that the transaction details indicate that the transaction is not fraudulent an authorization request message may then be generated. The authorization request message may be generated in any suitable format.

In step the generated authorization request message may be transmitted by the merchant processor computer to an acquirer computer . The authorization request message may be transmitted in any suitable format.

In step after receiving the authorization request message the authorization request message may then be transmitted to a payment processing network .

In step after receiving the authorization request message the payment processing network may then transmit the authorization request message to an appropriate issuer computer associated with the consumer payment device .

In step the issuer computer receives the authorization request message. The issuer computer may then determine whether the transaction should be authorized. The issuer computer transmits an authorization response message back to the payment processing network . The authorization response message can indicate whether or not the current transaction has been authorized or has been declined.

In step the payment processing network may then transmit the authorization response message back to the acquirer computer . The acquirer computer may then transmit the response message back to the merchant processor computer .

In step the merchant processor computer may then transmit the authorization response message to a fraud detection system . The fraud detection system may then undertake a decision process based on the authorization response message. If the result from the fraud detection system is an ACCEPT the transaction between the merchant and the consumer can be completed. If the result from the fraud detection system is a REJECT the fraud detection system would return a message to be presented to the consumer that the consumer may be contacted if there are any issues. For example the consumer may receive a message stating Thank you for your order. We will contact you if there are any issues. In embodiments of the invention the message does not indicate that a REJECT was determined for the transaction as the consumer may be attempting to conduct fraudulent transactions. If the result from the fraud detection system is a REVIEW the fraud detection system would hold the transaction until it can be further reviewed and it is determined whether it should be accepted or rejected.

In step after the merchant computer receives the authorization response message the merchant computer may then provide the authorization response message to the consumer . For example the consumer may be presented with a screen on the consumer client computer indicating success or failure of authorization. In other embodiments the authorization response message may be displayed by the POS terminal or may be printed out on a receipt.

In step at the end of the day or at a period determined by the merchant a normal clearing and settlement process can be conducted. A clearing and settlement process may include a process of reconciling a transaction. A clearing process is a process of exchanging financial details between an acquirer computer and an issuer computer to facilitate posting to a party s account and reconciliation of the party s settlement position. Settlement involves the delivery of securities from one party to another. In some embodiments clearing and settlement can occur simultaneously. In other embodiments the clearing and settlement process can be conducted by the fraud detection system once the fraud detection system has determined that the transaction should be accepted.

In step a merchant accesses the fraud detection system with authorized credentials and establishes a merchant profile with the fraud detection system . The merchant profile is stored in a merchant profile database L and contains customized settings for the merchant profile e.g. profile name profile description selected fraud detection rules etc. . In embodiments a merchant may establish a plurality of merchant profiles with a similar or distinct set of fraud detection rules.

In step the merchant populates the merchant profile with a customized set of fraud detection rules. The merchant profile can be populated with fraud detection rules stored in a fraud rules database K . In some embodiments the merchant may create an empty merchant profile that does not contain any fraud detection rules stores in the fraud rules database K . In such embodiments the merchant can establish a completely original set of fraud detection rules based on their needs or the needs of their business. In some embodiments the merchant can create a merchant profile with a combination of fraud detection rules stored in the fraud rules database K and merchant created fraud detection rules. In some embodiments the merchant created rules may be stored in the merchant profile database L . In other embodiments the merchant created rules may be stored in the fraud rules database K . The merchant may also associated one or more users with the merchant profile. The one of more users may be given access to modify the selection of fraud detection rules contained in the merchant profile and or to modify the merchant profile itself.

In step a user logs into the fraud detection system using authorized credentials associated with the merchant and the merchant profile. In embodiments of the invention the fraud detection system authenticates the identity of the user prior to permitting the user to make modifications to a selection of fraud detection rules by verifying a login ID and password of the user . For example the user may be the individual who established the merchant profile or an employee of the merchant who has been given access to the fraud detection system . The user may also be an individual who has fraudulently obtained authorized credentials in order to modify the merchant profile and fraud detection rules associated with the merchant profile in order to facilitate fraudulent activity e.g. fraudulent transactions .

In step the user makes a modification to the merchant profile or makes a modification to a selection of fraud detection rules in the merchant profile using a client computer . For example the user may modify a fraud detection rule for transactions over that the fraud detection system marks as REVIEW to ACCEPT. In another example the user may add a rule that orders from a particular credit card number should be marked as REJECT by the fraud detection system . The rule modification module C records the modification in the fraud rule database K and the merchant profile database L .

In step the user association module D associates the modification with the user by the authorized credentials used to log into the fraud detection system . In embodiments of the invention the user association module D identifies the user name used to log into the fraud detection system and appends it to data indicating the fraud detection rule modified the substance of the modification and the date and time of the modification.

In step the user association module D records the details regarding the modification to the fraud detection rule or merchant profile in an audit log in the fraud rules modification database M . In embodiments of the invention recording the details of the modification involves storing the modification and the user ID of the user who made the modifications.

In step the merchant logs into the fraud detection system and conducts an audit log search of its profile. The merchant may conduct an audit log search regularly to monitor its merchant profile or may have been motivated by suspicious transaction activity.

In step the merchant at a merchant client computer transmits the search parameters over a communications medium to conduct the audit log search for modifications of its merchant profile. The search parameters are received by the fraud detection system over the communications medium . Optional search parameters can include but are not limited to Date Range Category Subcategory User Name and Keyword. depict exemplary audit log search screens showing optional search parameters according to embodiments of the invention.

In step the audit search module F searches the fraud rules modification database M based on the merchant s search parameters. For example the merchant can search the fraud rules modification database M for modifications made to its fraud detection rules by a specific user e.g. an employee of the merchant with authorized credentials .

In step the data output module G displays the audit log search results to the merchant showing the modifications made to the fraud detection rules. The search results received by the merchant are based on the set of search parameters. depict exemplary search results according to embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention allow for parsing the search results for modifications to the fraud detection rules made by a specific user. For example if the initial search was for all modifications made over a custom date range the search results can be further narrowed by entering a string of characters as shown and described with respect to . Thus the search results can be restricted to only those entries in the audit log containing desired text. For example the scope of the search result can be narrowed to focus on only those modifications to the selection of fraud detection rules made by a specific user using a user name.

In order to access the fraud detection system the user must enter authorized credentials when prompted with the login screen . The authorized credentials are entered in a Merchant ID field a User Name field and a Password field . Once the fields have been filled the user can select the Login button for the credentials to be authorized. If the user has forgotten their password the user can access a password recovery process by selecting the hyperlink .

The search screen in includes a plurality of drop down menus and text fields in a search parameters box that the user can utilize to customize the audit search. Optional search parameters can include but are not limited to Date Range Category Subcategory User Name and Keyword . The Date Range option allows the user to select a range of time over which to conduct their search. As shown in Date Range options include but are not limited to Last Hour Today Yesterday Week To Date Last Week Month to Date Last Month and Custom Date Range . If the user selects a preset time interval the search results include transactions requested from midnight on the start date to 11 59 P.M. on the end date.

When the user selects Custom Range from the Date Range search parameter as depicted in a pop up Custom Data Range window appears that allows the user to select the range for their search. The user can select a start month day year and time A and an end month day year and time B . In embodiments of the claimed invention the custom date range extends to a limit of six months prior to the current date. In other embodiments the time span for the search can be greater than six months. In yet other embodiments custom ranges are possible only for a maximum of 31 days within the previous six months. Alternatively the user can select the calendar icons C and D in between the year drop down option and the hour drop down option. Selecting calendar icons C and D results in a calendar month to appear as a pop up for the user to pick a specific date. The Update button E allows the user to update the custom date range and the Cancel button F allows the user to cancel updating the custom date range. depicts the search screen once the user has set a custom range for the search. In the example the user has customized their search to search for changes to rules made between Apr. 1 2012 at 12 00 A.M. and Apr. 15 2012 at 11 59 P.M.

As shown in the default Category is Risk . depicts the list of options available to a user in the Subcategory drop box . In embodiments of the claimed invention the option include but are not limited to Profiles Custom Rules Active Profile Selector Passive Profile Selector Custom Lists Queues Velocity Settings Third Party Reviewer Settings DMH Group Activation DMH Group Management and List Management .

Searches conducted with the Profiles subcategory selected results in the changes additions settings and deletions made to profiles to be displayed. In embodiments the setting of a rule in a profile appears in a Profiles search while changes in conditions inside the rule appear in a Custom Rules search. This is described in greater detail with reference to .

Searches conducted with the Custom Rules subcategory selected results in the changes additions settings and deletions made to custom rules and copies made of pre defined rules to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Active Profile Selector or Passive Profile Selector subcategory selected results in the changes additions settings and deletions made to active and passive profile selector rules to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Custom Lists subcategory selected results in the changes additions and deletions made to custom lists to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Queues subcategory selected results in the changes settings and deletions made to queues to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Velocity subcategory selected results in the changes additions settings and deletions made to product order and global velocity rules and settings to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Settings subcategory selected results in the changes made to general Decision Manager settings to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Third Party subcategory selected results in the changes additions and deletions made to third party configuration settings to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the Reviewer Settings subcategory selected results in the changes additions and deletions made to reviewer settings to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the DMH Group Activation subcategory selected results in the changes in activation and deactivation of merchants in a group of merchants to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the DMH Group Management subcategory selected results in the changes that affect the implementation of merchants in a group of merchants to be displayed.

Searches conducted with the List Management subcategory selected results in the changes additions conversions and deletions made to the positive negative and review list to be displayed.

Returning to the user can optionally enter characters into the User Name and Keyword text fields. For the User Name field the user can enter the user name of a user who may have made changes to any of the rules. In embodiments of the claimed invention for the Keyword field the user can enter the name of the Decision Manager component or List Manager record that was added modified copied or deleted. For example if a customer rule named Overnight Shipping was previously established the user can use the name of the rule as a keyword. As another example the audit log searched can be narrowed to focus on only modifications made by a particular user by entering the user name into the User Name text field .

Additional information and options displayed on the search screen include the login information section containing the user ID account ID and merchant ID. The user can log out of the fraud detection system by selecting the Log Out option . If the user wants additional help the user can select the Online Help option . Selecting the triangle shaped option on the search parameters box allows the user to close or open the search parameters box .

Once the user has selected the search parameters for their search the user selects the Search button in order to conduct the search. Exemplary search screen resulting from conducting searches are described with reference to the following examples.

In the text along the top bar of the search results screen indicates search information including start date end date category and the number of audit entries found in the search. In the example in the search start date is shown as Apr. 1 2012 at 12 00 A.M. the end date is Apr. 15 2012 at 09 15 30 A.M. the category is the default Risk category and the number of audit entries found in the search was two.

Returning to the example described in the first entry in shows that user modified the default passive merchant profile from the ruleTest profile to the Test profile profile. The entry also indicates the time at which the modification was made by user as being Apr. 10 2012 at 08 53 41 AM. The second entry in shows that user modified the default active profile from the ruleTest profile to the Example profile. The entry also indicates the time at which the modification was made by user as being Apr. 10 2012 at 08 53 37 AM.

Embodiments of the invention provide the technical benefits of efficiency and conserving resources. By establishing a merchant profile comprised of core fraud detection rules and customized fraud detection rules based on an individual merchant s business flow and transaction history a merchant can efficiently automate a process that would otherwise require significant review by people. Further the audit log containing modification histories increases efficiency by quickly providing merchants with information as to modifications to fraud detection rules and merchant profiles as well as the identity of the user who made modifications. In this manner by automating a search of fraud detection rule modifications the merchant is saved the time and resources it would have to spend going through all its fraud detection rules to determine what changes may or may not have been made to its fraud detection rules and merchant profile.

Another technical benefit with embodiments of the claimed invention is conserving resources for transaction processing. For example when the number or percentage of transactions that are flagged for review changes drastically e.g. the number of transactions flagged for review goes from 10 per hour to 500 per hour the operator of the fraud detection system can determine whether or not a change to one or more of the fraud detection rules in the merchant s profile caused the increase for the merchant. Adjustments can then be made to settings and conditions allowing the merchant to conserve resources that would otherwise be expended processing transactions that do not require review.

Another technical benefit with embodiments of the claimed invention is that audit log searches can be conducted to find insider fraud. For example if an employee with access to a merchant profile and the fraud detection rules within the merchant profile has changed the fraud detection rules in order to allow a co conspirator to purchase merchandise with stolen credit card numbers the employee s actions can be tracked.

In other embodiments of the claimed invention when the fraud detection system processes an authorization response message and determines that the transaction should be marked as ACCEPT the fraud detection system can facilitate the clearing and settlement process on behalf of the merchant.

Embodiments of the claimed invention may further allow additional audit log search result layout customization. The columns as described above may be manipulated in size and order based on user preference. In additional entries within the audit log search result can be sorted in ascending or descending order based on each column. For example if sorted by the date and time field the entries will be sorted by date and time. If any other column is sorted the entries are sorted alphabetically starting with numbers following by uppercase and lowercase text.

The various participants and elements may operate one or more computer apparatuses e.g. a server computer to facilitate the functions described herein. Any of the elements in the figures may use any suitable number of subsystems to facilitate the functions described herein. Examples of such subsystems or components are shown in . The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems such as a printer keyboard fixed disk or other memory comprising computer readable media monitor which is coupled to display adapter and others are shown. Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to I O controller can be connected to the computer system by any number of means known in the art such as serial port . For example serial port or external interface can be used to connect the computer apparatus to a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device or a scanner. The interconnection via system bus allows the central processor to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions from system memory or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk may embody a computer readable medium.

Further while the present invention has been described using a particular combination of hardware and software in the form of control logic and programming code and instructions it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. The present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by one or more processors using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may also reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

The present invention can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic may be stored in an information storage medium as a plurality of instructions adapted to direct an information processing device to perform a set of steps disclosed in embodiments of the present invention. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention.

It is understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application and scope of the appended claims. All publications patents and patent applications cited in this patent are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

In embodiments any of the entities described herein may be embodied by a computer that performs any or all of the functions and steps disclosed.

Any recitation of a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

