---

title: Carbon nanotube explosives
abstract: A micro-explosive material is provided. The micro-explosive material can include a carbon nanotube and a solid oxidizer attached to the carbon nanotube. The carbon nanotube with the solid oxidizer attached thereto is operable to burn per an exothermic chemical reaction between the carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer such that a controlled burn and/or an explosive burn is provided. The micro-explosive material can be used as a heat generator, a gas generator, a micro-thruster, a primer for use with a larger explosive material, and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573856&OS=09573856&RS=09573856
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09573856
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120214
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates in general to an explosive material and in particular to a carbon nanotube plus solid oxidizer explosive material.

Explosive materials and their use to destroy move and or manipulate components devices etc. are known. Such explosive materials typically undergo an exothermic chemical reaction that produces heat and or a large volume of gas. In addition the chemical reaction occurs at a rapid rate such that a shockwave propagates from the chemical reaction.

The use of explosive materials is critical in a variety of areas such as military operations espionage operations counter espionage operations movement of desired devices and the like. In addition the ability to precisely control quantity of explosive and the amount of energy released can provide for more accurate reliable and controllable effects. Therefore a micro explosive device and or material would be desirable.

A micro explosive material is provided. The micro explosive material can include a carbon nanotube and a solid oxidizer attached to or arranged in close proximity to the carbon nanotube. The carbon nanotube combined with the solid oxidizer is operable to burn per an exothermic chemical reaction between the carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer such that a controlled burn and or an explosive burn is provided.

The solid oxidizer can be a salt that is attached to or in close proximity to an outer surface or wall of a carbon nanotube to an inner wall of a hollow carbon nanotube or combinations thereof. In the alternative the carbon nanotube with the solid oxidizer attached thereto can afford a micro thruster and the micro thruster can be attached to a micro device such as a micro robot a micro satellite a small caliber ballistic etc. In some instances the carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer can be a generator such as a heat generator a gas generator a shockwave generator and the like. In other instances the carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer attached thereto can be a primer charge that is operable to ignite a separate and possibly a larger explosive material.

The micro explosive material can also include a plurality of carbon nanotubes with a solid oxidizer attached thereto. The solid oxidizer can be attached to outer surfaces of the carbon nanotubes and or attached to inner walls if the plurality of carbon nanotubes are hollow carbon nanotubes. It is appreciated that the plurality of carbon nanotubes and the solid oxidizer can also be used as a micro thruster a generator a primer and the like in order to afford movement of a micro device and or destruction of at least a portion of a micro device.

A process for producing the micro explosive material is also provided the process including providing a carbon nanotube and a solid oxidizer. The solid oxidizer is attached to the carbon nanotube with the carbon nanotube plus solid oxidizer operable to exothermally chemically react with each other to provide a controlled and or explosive burn.

The carbon nanotube and or solid oxidizer can be provided by a micro fabrication technique and as such the micro explosive material can be well suited for manufacture using techniques known to those skilled in the art of semiconductor and semiconductor device production and or fabrication. The micro explosive material and the process for producing a micro explosive material can further include an electronic and or optical initiator mechanism that is used to ignite the chemical reaction between the carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer.

The micro explosive material disclosed herein has utility as a micro thruster a micro generator and or a micro explosive. The micro explosive material can include a carbon nanotube and a solid oxidizer attached thereto. The carbon nanotube and the solid oxidizer are selected to afford an exothermic chemical reaction and provide a controlled burn and or an explosive burn. The solid oxidizer can be a salt a fluorocarbon or any other type of oxidizer known in the art. and may be attached to an outer surface of the carbon nanotube and or to an inner wall of the carbon nanotube in the event that the nanotube is a hollow carbon nanotube. The carbon nanotube with the solid oxidizer attached thereto can be used for and or provide a micro thruster that is attached to a micro device such as a micro robot a micro satellite a small caliber ballistic etc. Furthermore the carbon nanotube with the solid oxidizer attached thereto can be a micro generator that generates heat gas a shockwave etc.

The carbon nanotube with the solid oxidizer attached thereto can also be used as a primer charge that is operable to ignite a separate explosive material. It is appreciated that the separate explosive material can be a larger amount of explosive material.

In some instances a plurality of carbon nanotubes with solid oxidizer attached thereto can be provided and used to provide a micro thruster a micro generator a primer charge and the like.

A process for producing the micro explosive material is also provided the process including providing a carbon nanotube a solid oxidizer and attaching the solid oxidizer to the carbon nanotube. An electronic initiator mechanism and or an optical initiator mechanism can also be included for the purpose of igniting the micro explosive material.

It is appreciated that the burning of the carbon nanotube is the result of an exothermic chemical reaction between the carbon of the nanotube and the oxygen contained within the solid oxidizer. The solid oxidizer can be in the form of a salt such as potassium nitrate KNO sodium perchlorate NaClO etc. however this is not required. Stated differently any solid oxidizer that provides sufficient oxygen to react with a carbon nanotube and provides a self propagating exothermic chemical reaction can be used.

The micro explosive material can afford for a low or high explosion a low explosion resulting from rapid burning of the carbon nanotube and a high explosion resulting from detonation of the micro explosive material. More particularly the micro explosive material can provide for deflagration i.e. the decomposition of the micro explosive material by propagation of a flame front. In the alternative the micro explosive material can result in detonation i.e. the decomposition of the carbon nanotube and solid oxidizer by propagation of an explosive shockwave traversing the material. It is appreciated that the propagation of the flame front through the micro explosive material is relatively slow compared to the propagation of the shockwave through the material via detonation. In addition it is further appreciated that physical and or chemical properties characteristics of the carbon nanotubes and the solid oxidizer can be selected such that a desired burn rate deflagration rate detonation rate and the like is provided.

Turning now to two embodiments of a micro explosive material are shown. illustrates an embodiment in which a solid carbon nanotube has a solid oxidizer attached to an outer surface of the carbon nanotube . In the alternative illustrates an embodiment in which a hollow carbon nanotube with a solid oxidizer embedded or attached within the hollow nanotube and in contact with an inner wall . It is appreciated that the solid oxidizer shown in can react with the carbon nanotube to provide an exothermic chemical reaction that propagates or occurs at a desired rate.

Turning now to an embodiment having micro explosive material attached to a micro device is shown. In particular a substrate with an integrated circuit attached thereto is shown. The integrated circuit can be part of an electronic device such as a computer personal digital assistant PDA audio equipment broadcast equipment marine electronics power electronics printed circuit boards robotic equipment and the like.

In addition to the substrate and integrated circuit a plurality of nanotubes and solid oxidizer with an initiator can be included such that initiation of an exothermic chemical reaction of the plurality of carbon nanotubes with oxidizer is afforded. In this manner a relatively small area or volume of a micro device can be burned heated melted etc. with minimum impact to surrounding areas as in applications such as microwelding or thermally initiated thin film batteries.

Looking at the plurality of carbon nanotubes with solid oxidizer in greater detail shows embodiment in which a plurality of solid carbon nanotubes is arranged in a bundle with a solid oxidizer embedded within or between the nanotubes . It is appreciated that the embodiment or bundle provides a micro explosive material that can be initiated and afford for the solid oxidizer to react With the carbon of the carbon nanotubes .

For example and for illustrative purposes only the carbon can react with a solid oxidizer according to the reaction 2 KNO S 3C KS N 3 CO in which sulfur can be added to assist in a gunpowder like reaction. It is appreciated that the sulfur can be present as a coating on the carbon nanotubes as part of the initiation mechanism as part of the solid oxidizer as a vapor and the like. In the alternative a solid oxidizer that does not require the presence of sulfur e.g. NaClO in order for a desired exothermic chemical reaction to occur can be used.

The micro explosive material disclosed herein can have a plurality of uses illustratively including the embodiments shown in . For example an embodiment can include one or more carbon nanotubes with solid oxidizer attached thereto attached to a micro device in order to afford a micro thruster for movement of the device as shown by the arrows. In the alternative an embodiment shown in can include one or more micro thrusters attached to a micro caliber ballistic to afford movement thereof. It is appreciated that the one or more micro thrusters can oriented at angle relative to the micro caliber ballistic e.g. perpendicular to a flight direction in order to steer the ballistic and the orientation shown in as for the other figures is for illustrative purposes only. shows one or more heat generators made from a carbon nanotube with a solid oxidizer attached thereto which can be used to heat and or boil a liquid that is present on an electronic chip and allow for chemical analysis of the liquid as is known to those skilled in the art. And illustrates a primer made from at least one carbon nanotube with a solid oxidizer attached thereto the primer affording for ignition of a separate and larger explosive material .

A process for producing the micro explosive material is shown generally at reference numeral in . The process can include providing one or more carbon nanotubes at step and providing a solid oxidizer at step . Thereafter the solid oxidizer is attached or embedded around or within respectively the one or more carbon nanotubes at step . Optionally an initiator can be provided and the material from step and or the initiator providing a micro explosive device that can be attached to a component at step . The process can also include ignition of the micro explosive device in order to provide a desired function relative to the component. For example melting vaporization heating and or movement of at least part of the component can be afforded.

The attachment or embedding of solid oxidizer can be accomplished in a number of ways including but not limited to exposing the carbon nanotubes to a liquid solution of the oxidizer by dropcasting soaking spray coating etc then allowing the solvent to sublimate or evaporate away gas phase deposition via evaporation or sputtering of the oxidizer material onto the carbon nanotubes and producing the oxidizer on the chip by reacting one or more chemicals with the substrate or each other.

In order to better explain an embodiment of the micro explosive material and a process for providing the micro explosive material and yet not limit the scope of the invention in any way an example is provided below.

Multiwalled carbon nanotubes were produced using a thermal chemical vapor deposition technique which exposed a mixture of ferrocene and xylene vapor to a patterned SiO Si substrate in a quartz tube furnace. The substrate within the quartz tube was held at 770 C. and the gas mixture was allowed to flow through the tube for times between 30 to 60 minutes. Before passing the ferrocene xylene gas mixture through the quartz argon gas at a pressure of approximately 100 mTorr was present to prevent the patterned SiO Si substrate surface from oxidizing. Then and after the furnace was heated to the deposition temperature of 770 C. a solution of ferrocene 0.5 mg in xylene 50 mL was pre vaporized at 180 C. and introduced into a quartz tube and allowed to flow over the substrate. It is appreciated that the pre vaporized ferrocene xylene mixture served as both a carbon source and a catalyst with the xylene providing the carbon atoms and iron from the ferrocene serving as the catalyst for multiwalled carbon nanotube growth.

After a desired exposure time had elapsed the reaction terminated by stopping the flow of the ferrocene xylene gas mixture flow while passing H Ar gas through the furnace tube to remove or blow away any residual hydrocarbon vapor. In this manner the reaction time for the growth of the carbon nanotubes was well controlled.

The above described process provided mats of carbon nanotubes which were then heated in air at 350 C. for 2 hours to remove any carbonaceous impurities. The air oxidized samples were further purified by exposure to concentrated nitric acid HNO for 24 hours in order to remove any catalytic impurities. It is appreciated that hydrophobic carbon nanotubes will change to hydrophilic material upon nitric acid treatment due to the attachment of OH functional groups at defective sites.

The resulting nitric acid treated carbon nanotubes were then washed with de ionized water several times and dried in vacuum at 500 C. for 4 hours. After washing and drying the nitric acid treated carbon nanotubes were then exposed to a 1 M sodium perchlorate NaClO solution at room temperature for 24 hours. This end product was then dried again in vacuum at 100 C. for 24 hours.

Various analyses were conducted on the as prepared mats of carbon nanotubes the nitric acid treated carbon nanotubes and the final end product using techniques such as x ray diffraction scanning electron microscopy Raman spectroscopy Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and x ray photoelectron spectroscopy. In addition the results clearly demonstrated that sodium perchlorate was attached to the carbon nanotubes that had been exposed to the NaClOsolution.

In order to investigate the thermal stability and heat flow properties of the carbon nanotube sodium perchlorate samples thermogravimetric analysis TGA and differential scanning calorimetry DSC were performed thereon. In particular samples weighing approximately 10 mg were heated in an air atmosphere from 30 C. to 1000 C. at a rate of 5 C. min and the weight of a given sample was recorded as a function of temperature.

Looking at TGA and DSC curves for Samples of as produced carbon nanotubes CNT are shown in nitric acid treated carbon nanotubes CNT OH are shown in and carbon nanotubes with the solid oxidizer sodium perchlorate attached thereto CNT NaClO are shown in . As shown in the DSC curves show exothermic peaks at 597 570 and 450 C. for the carbon nanotube nitric acid treated carbon nanotubes and sodium perchlorate treated carbon nanotubes respectively. It is appreciated that the significant decrease in the temperature onset of the exothermic peak for the sodium perchlorate treated carbon nanotubes i.e. 450 C. versus 570 and 597 C. illustrates that the presence of the solid oxidizer destabilizes the carbon nanotubes. Not being bound by theory it is proposed that oxygen from the sodium perchlorate triggers the exothermic reaction with the carbon nanotubes and can provide for a micro explosive material.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

