---

title: Autofocus-based compensation (ABC) system and method for a hovering ground moving target indication (GMTI) sensor
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to motion compensation, and in particular to an autofocus-based compensation (ABC) systems and methods for a ground moving target indication platform. According to one embodiment, a method for autofocus based compensation of range data acquired from an object in motion is provided. The method may include: receiving range data; steering at least one receive beam of the range data in a desired direction; transforming the range data into the range domain; determining the width of a main clutter lobe; excluding data that is not part of the main lobe clutter response; transforming the main-lobe clutter response into the range domain; calculating a phase correction term; and applying the phase correction to the original range data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994584&OS=08994584&RS=08994584
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08994584
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120605
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 495 783 filed on Jun. 10 2011 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to motion compensation and in particular to an autofocus based compensation ABC systems and methods for a ground moving target indication GMTI sensor.

Various military and non military organizations use moving target indication MTI radar systems both ground based and airborne. Most of these systems process data in the frequency domain detecting the Doppler shift induced on a transmitted waveform by the radial velocity of the moving target. Since they process target returns appearing at specific Doppler frequencies it is important that their relative spatial location be precisely specified throughout the entire processing interval. Without accurate position information processing algorithms cannot correct for phase errors introduced by platform motion. This is generally not an issue for stationary ground based systems but it is critically important for airborne systems including the helicopter based multi channel system that was considered.

In a typical hovering airborne GMTI radar system a post processor uses simultaneously collected platform position and orientation information to correct for motion induced errors in the measured signal phases. This motion compensation MOCOMP system performs well provided that the position measurement system produces high precision outputs. If however the position measurements are imprecise then the downstream GMTI algorithm may be unable to detect specific targets of interest. This may be especially true when the target of interest has low radar cross section RCS and is moving at low speed. The small amount of energy available in its GMTI signature would likely smear across multiple Doppler bins making it indistinguishable from large sidelobes of the main clutter ridge concentrated near the 0 Hz Doppler bin.

According to one embodiment a method for autofocus based compensation of range data acquired from an object in motion is provided. The method may include receiving range data steering at least one receive beam of the range data in a desired direction transforming the range data into the range domain determining the width of a main clutter lobe excluding data that is not part of the main lobe clutter response transforming the main lobe clutter response into the range domain calculating a phase correction term and applying the phase correction to the original range data.

According to another embodiment a system for autofocus based compensation for range data acquired from an object in motion is provided. The system may include a processor configured to receive range data steer at least one receive beam of the range data in a desired direction transform the range data into the range domain determine the width of a main clutter lobe exclude data that is not part of the main lobe clutter response transform the main lobe clutter response into the range domain calculate a phase correction term and apply the phase correction to the original range data.

According to yet another embodiment a computer readable storage medium having computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor implement a method for autofocus based compensation of range data acquired from an object in motion is provided. The method executed by the computer readable instructions may include receiving range data steering at least one receive beam of the range data in a desired direction transforming the range data into the range domain determining the width of a main clutter lobe excluding data that is not part of the main lobe clutter response transforming the main lobe clutter response into the range domain calculating a phase correction term and applying the phase correction to the original range data.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to motion compensation and in particular to an autofocus based compensation ABC systems and methods for a GMTI sensor.

The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA recently developed the Foliage Penetrating Reconnaissance Surveillance Tracking and Engagement Radar FORESTER system. The foliage penetration FOPEN requirement dictates that the system s operational frequencies are low which results in small Doppler frequency shifts. In addition the system must detect partially concealed dismounts with small radar cross section RCS moving at relatively slow speeds. The FORESTER system includes a suite of sensors for measuring the platform s position velocity yaw pitch and roll enabling it to realize a long coherent processing interval CPI and produce high resolution Doppler measurements.

Ideally the FORESTER system would hover motionlessly during a CPI but this may be an unrealistic expectation for such a relatively long interval. Inevitably a certain amount of platform drift introduces phase distortions into the received signal resulting in blurred range Doppler imagery. Typically a post processor uses simultaneously collected platform position and orientation information to correct for these motion induced errors in the measured signal phases. If the platform position measurement system fails to correct for all the errors then alternative motion compensation MOCOMP solution to obtain high quality MTI data may be required.

As shown in a platform may be a rotary positioner craft such as an A160 Hummingbird helicopter unmanned aerial vehicle UAV . When deployed this platform may hover and track ground moving objects and targets.

An antenna array is mounted and or otherwise designed to be carried underneath or by the platform . For instance it may be housed in large pod transversely mounted on the platform in some embodiments. The antenna array can be positioned to provide desired surveillance of a certain sector or area and then electronically scanned across that sector. FORESTER for example is a multi channel system which includes an array of 16 active elements. In some embodiments the antenna array may be maintained at a predetermined azimuth using a drive controller.

An onboard electronics system may be provided within the platform which include that includes the radar transmitter receiver and signal processor. For instance it may be housed within the fuselage of the platform . Doppler range data may be collected by the antenna array and processed by the electronics system . The collected Doppler data may be communicated remotely via radio frequency RF communications to a control station such as a fixed command station a mobile vehicle platform and or to other platforms including ground aerial satellite or sea based platforms. Accordingly the system provides target tracking data display and operator control capability.

In other embodiments the platform might be an aerial moving vehicle such as an airplane helicopter UAV dirigible balloon blimp or other aircraft. Or the platform could be a marine vehicle such as a submarine ship boat hovercraft etc or a space based platform such as a satellite or spacecraft. Radar or other electromagnetic ranging may be used in some instances. In the case of an underwater vehicle sonar an acronym for SOund Navigation And Ranging may be used which employs sound waves rather than electromagnetic EM radiation.

The system generally includes antenna array Doppler hardware systems transmit receive electronics communication electronics and system controller .

The antenna array Doppler hardware systems may include an array of antenna elements. As noted above FORESTER for example is a multi channel system which includes an array of 16 active elements. It uses 1024 samples collected during a relatively long CPI and this relatively high Doppler resolution enables it to detect and track slowly moving dismounts. Each of the 16 channels collects 1024 samples at each range gate yielding a data cube of size 1024 number of CPI pulses 16 number of array elements nRange number of range gates 2048 for this data set . All of the channels also collect coherent data simultaneously permitting various beamforming strategies. Other Doppler hardware systems may be conventional.

The transmit receive T R electronics include electronic systems needed to transmit and receive radar information to and from the antenna array. For instance the T R electronics include various modulators phase shifter power amplifiers and harmonic filters for generating and transmitting signals for 16 channels corresponding to 16 antennas of the antenna array . Similarly the T R electronics may include limiters pre selectors low noise amplifiers LNA down convertors and analog digital A D convertors for receiving and pre processing signals received from the antenna array. Such electronics are generally known and will not be discussed further herein.

The communication electronics include uplink and or downlink communication systems for wireless communications between the platform and the control station. Various known RF communication frequency bands and protocols may be used. System control data flight data Doppler range data Inertial Navigation System INS Global Position System GPS data are some types of data which may be transmitted and received via the communications electronics .

The system controller includes electronics for controlling the flight of the platform and providing range tracking. In this embodiment range tracking uses Doppler radar. But it should be appreciate that radar sonar or other EM ranging techniques could also be used. As shown the system controller includes an ABC processing unit which include an ABC application processor s memory support circuits and input output I O interfaces . Status and control information may be exchanged between the various elements.

The ABC processing unit is coupled to the processor s for executing the ABC application that is configured to process Doppler range data and to provide correction of errors in the Doppler range data that are induced by platform movement. The ABC application may be software firmware created using any number of programming languages. Application may include one or more modules having processor executable instructions. Of course it will be appreciated that any number of hardware implementations programming languages and operating platforms may be used. As such the description or recitation of any specific hardware implementations programming language and operating platforms herein is exemplary only and should not be viewed as limiting.

Alternatively or additionally the application may be a stand alone application running on a computer which interfaces with the platform control systems for example though a remote network connection or via a computer readable storage media i.e. flash memory DVD CD ROM floppy disk removable or permanent hard drive etc. . In some implementations the application may be a plug in application that is incorporated into a third party software application. Other configurations may also be implemented.

Methodology and algorithms for performing ABC processing in the absence of precise vehicle position measurements is disclosed herein. As a starting point the inventors evaluated a synthetic aperture radar SAR autofocus technique and further extended this techniques to the problem of a moving platform.

The nature of the moving target indication MTI signature distortion due to different types of platform motion is further discussed below. The ABC processing was developed by the inventors based on their research on SAR autofocus considerations which may be performed at least in part by the ABC processing unit .

The processor s may include one or more microprocessors as known in the art. In some implementations software code instructions may be stored on a computer or machine readable storage media having computer or machine executable instructions executable by processor s . In some implementations the processor s may be a programmable processor such as for example a field programmable gate array FGPA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC processor.

The memory may include one or more of the following random access memory read only memory magneto resistive read write memory optical read write memory cache memory magnetic read write memory and the like as well as signal bearing media excluding non transitory signals such as carrier waves and the like.

The support circuits may include conventional cache power supplies clock circuits data registers I O devices and the like. An input output I O interface may be directly coupled to the memory or coupled through the supporting circuits . The I O interface may also be configured for communication with input devices and or output devices such as network devices various storage devices mouse keyboard display and the like.

The ABC processing was applied and tested in order to document its effectiveness using moving target simulators MTSs in measured FORESTER data. Various appropriately defined metrics and measured responses from canonical targets were determined to quantify observations. Results demonstrate that the ABC processing does not distort canonical target responses sharpened by the measurement based motion compensation algorithm.

The range data may be electronic data which includes distance or range values i.e. Range gate at a particular frequency bands i.e. bins . In some embodiments the data may be stored and or output as a matrix multi dimensional e.g. 2 D or 3 D array or other dataset. While certain embodiments disclosed herein are described with respect to Doppler range data it should be appreciated that in other embodiments sonar or radar data could be similar used similar to Doppler range data.

Experiments were performed by the inventors to determine the impact of imprecisely measured platform position on the frequency domain signatures required for MTI. Without precise platform position information the phase relationships measured by the radar during a CPI was shown to be distorted and the resulting target signatures were displaced and or smeared in the range Doppler plane. This typically led to missed or inaccurately located detections.

In particular the experiments focused on MTSs at bearing angles of nearly 0 relative to a line perpendicular to the array axis using a non adaptive beam steering algorithm. The data from all 16 channels was coherently added together. This approach narrowed the effective beamwidth of the antenna to approximately 7 enabling reasonable autofocus based MOCOMP corrections to be implemented without adversely impacting downstream processing steps such as those based on space time adaptive processing concepts . During the experiments the initial beamforming step proved important as preliminary attempts to formulate a MOCOMP solution for each individual channel failed due to the wide range of measured mainlobe Doppler frequencies in each channel. The narrower effective beamwidth output by the beamformer reduced the range of bearing angles included for mainlobe clutter determination thereby reducing the undesirably large spread of mainlobe Doppler frequencies. This played an important role in estimating MOCOMP correction parameters via analysis of Fast Fourier transforms FFT calculated across the 1024 time domain samples. It was the frequency domain representation provided by the FFT that suitably concentrated the energy of moving targets enabling determination of suitable MOCOMP corrections.

Following motion compensation a new phase shift was introduced at each CPI pulse due to the undetected aircraft motion within the data collection plane i.e. slant range vs. cross range illustrated in . This new corrupted range Doppler image and the original uncorrupted image constitute the graphics in and . In these images the MTS responses should appear as point targets in the range Doppler plane. The linearity of the unmeasured trajectory shown in implied that the undetected velocity was constant across the entire CPI and the constant velocity produced the frequency domain shift evident in the aforementioned figures. Here undetected aircraft position offsets as a function of CPI pulse number.

In the frequency domain plots are again extracted from the range gate containing MTS responses as indicated by the dashed ellipses. is an expanded zoomed in view of a portion of the plot in . The vertical dashed line in both the imagery and the plots indicates the frequency bin corresponding to zero Doppler the final plot shows a zoom of the plot to the left emphasizing the smearing introduced by the uncompensated down range acceleration. In the uncompensated aircraft trajectory is now non linear indicating the presence of an undetected acceleration in the down range direction. Undetected aircraft position offsets as a function of CPI pulse number. The extent of the range offset ensures that the MTS never moves out of a single range gate e.g. less than 3.75 m . The acceleration component of has resulted in Doppler domain smearing of the MTS point like target responses.

Doppler domain distortions arising from non linear motion can have serious repercussions as evidenced by the plots in sand . The peak MTS signal levels realized in this instance fall approximately 6 dB below those realized prior to distortion and this represents a significant reduction in target to clutter ratio especially in view of the fact that low RCS dismount targets are of interest. In addition large signal levels within the clutter mainlobe clearly spread away from the zero Doppler bin potentially obscuring low velocity targets.

For instance the inventors believed that the SAR imaging community has also recognized certain problems associated with uncompensated platform motion. One MOCOMP algorithm considered by the inventors i.e. the phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm appeared in the late 1980s and has been successfully applied to a wide variety of SAR imagery. After careful consideration of current MTI problems the inventors recognized that the fundamental MOCOMP problem is similar to that of the SAR community in some regards. A goal is to reduce or eliminate phase errors due to unmeasured aircraft motion. Thus the inventors considered the effects of uncompensated aircraft motion on SAR image processing and the incorporation of autofocus techniques to ameliorate these effects.

The spatial resolution within a SAR image depends mainly upon two factors i the transmitted bandwidth for downrange or cross track resolution and ii the synthetic aperture length expressed in terms of the transmitted wavelength for cross range or along track resolution. As documented in earlier descriptions of the time domain back projection algorithm cross range resolution may be obtained by coherently integrating pulses from range gates corresponding to a particular image pixel. That is for every along track position within a synthetic aperture the round trip time of flight for the radar signal from a specified radar position to a particular image coordinate is calculated. Then all of the data samples extracted at the appropriate delay for each aperture position i.e. the sample corresponding to the round trip time of flight are coherently added. This process may be repeated at each pixel of the processed image to obtain the desired SAR image. Errors in the recorded aircraft position produce errors in the estimated signal time of flight and these are the errors that SAR autofocus routines such as phase gradient autofocus PGA algorithm attempt to eliminate.

Realizing that a time delay at a specific transmitted frequency corresponds to a phase shift the inventors recognized that unwanted deviations from the known aircraft trajectory produce phase deviations that must be detected and eliminated during image formation. The PGA accomplishes this by using large target responses within the focused SAR image to adaptively estimate the phase distortion produced by the undetected aircraft motion.

From the block diagram and the detailed discussion therein it was realized that following the initial circular shift and windowing all targets should appear as nearly point like responses. Since the target signatures also are centered there should be no additional frequency domain phase terms arising from time shifts. That is following cross range decompression the FFT step each target sample summed across the synthetic aperture should have the same phase thereby producing the largest coherent sum. The PGA phase correction terms may be calculated as follows 

From equations 1 2 and 3 it was recognized that the phase gradient correction attempts to adjust the phase at each pulse to approximate the phase of the first pulse. This should achieve as closely as possible the constant phase desired prior to cross range integration via the FFT.

An Autofocus based Compensation ABC algorithm according to embodiments of the invention was derived from the PGA algorithm as applied to MTI datasets by the inventors.

For the ABC algorithm processing the MTI image domain corresponds to the range Doppler plane a space versus frequency plane as opposed to the SAR image domain which corresponds to a purely spatial plane. As recognized by the inventors a fundamental problem in both cases centers about the detection and elimination of phase distortions impacting the summation that determines the final image pixel value.

The methodology outlined in the block diagram of was modified from a known PGA algorithm by the inventors. In particular the SAR data of PGA algorithm was replaced with the Doppler range data and the SAR s cross range dimension for SAR data was replaced with the MTI s Doppler dimension. After incorporation of these modifications the other MTI steps may proceed similarly as per the SAR PGA algorithm. Other differences may relate to the number of range gates N used to calculate the correction term the number of iterations performed prior to algorithm termination and the procedure used to implement the circular shift. In an effort to limit the amount of computation required for MOCOMP the number of background gates was limited. For instance N may represent 400 background gates. This approach also has the added benefit of retaining a more localized estimate of the phase correction function. Similarly after observing that a single iteration yields almost all of the improvement the number of calculations required was reduced by evaluating only a single iteration of the algorithm i.e. by calculating the phase correction function only once . Finally since the amount of circular shift is small and consistent throughout all of the range gates recall that the target in this case is the main clutter ridge at zero Doppler it was incorporated into the overall phase correction function.

While this brief description touches upon the elements of the processing chain of that were altered it is useful to discuss in detail how the processing steps in are adapted for MTI processing. Each of the steps is addressed below.

In step where SAR image is ordinarily input range data e.g. Doppler range data is now the input to the system. As mentioned previously the FORESTER data cube comprises measurements from 16 channels 1024 CPI pulses and 2048 range gates. Thus the 3D data cube that includes FORESTER measurements must be reduced to a 2D data cube suitable for autofocus processing. For instance the 16 channels of data may be collapsed by coherently summing them i.e. forming a beam at 0 relative to a line perpendicular to the antenna array to create a 2048 1024 matrix of range and CPI values. Collapsing refers to a data dimensionality reduction process which here is from 2048 1024 16 to 2048 1024. The collapsing process may be described as follows 

And the result is circularly shifted such that the zero Doppler bin appears in the center column as follows 2 mod for 0 1 2 1. 6 

This version of the range Doppler matrix serves as an input to the main processing loop. The relationship between the range Doppler domain and the range CPI domain is preserved. As a result an inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT may be used instead of the FFT.

To illustrate applying a shift to input data further reference is made to . Here R is the range to the target area and L is the array length. Since R may be much larger than L the phase correction calculated to the center of the array can effectively be applied to each channel. The antennas in the array are spaced apart by a distance . Finally since the phase correction is calculated for a broadside antenna beam i.e. a beam that is directed along a ray perpendicular to the axis of the antenna array it sharpens the response from targets located at angles near 0 relative to a line perpendicular to the array axis. To optimally process targets at other angles the proper phase shifts would be applied to the data in each channel to steer the beam in that direction based on the Land the wavelength corresponding to the center frequency as follows 2 7 

Referring back to in step the target e.g. brightest pixel is circularly shifted to the center of the image. In one implementation the brightest pixel may be calculated as follows 

Following the FFT the complex magnitude is calculated for each Doppler signature by applying a moving average filter to the magnitude of each signature and then locating the brightest pixel and verifying that this pixel is located near the center of the signature. That is the main clutter ridge produces the maximum pixel value. No additional modifications may be further required since a correction for the Doppler offset can be incorporated into the final phase correction function.

In step an appropriate window width i.e. width of the target response is determined and applied. Typically this width represents the distance between the first pixels more than M dB below the peak where M is a number such as 10 for instance. After determining the location of the main clutter lobe its width may be estimated by finding the two Doppler bins e.g. in the filtered magnitude signature one on either side of the peak that are closest to being a predetermined threshold below the maximum pixel. The main clutter lobe is the set of pixels within a given range gate with values that are less than M dB below the peak. The main clutter ridge denotes the surface created by the main clutter lobes from multiple contiguous range gates. For example the predetermined threshold may be 10 dB in some instances. Since these two bins lie on either side of the peak the separation between them becomes the estimate of the width. This process may be repeated for each range gate thus obtaining estimates of the mainlobe width for instance. Only a smaller more suitable subset of the complete collection to estimate the phase correction may be employed in some instances. The rectangular window may be applied corresponding to the estimated width to the Doppler signatures in each range gate.

In step a Fourier Transform is applied in the range dimension. As noted earlier the cross range dimension for SAR image in the conventional PGA algorithm has been replaced by the range dimension which here is the Doppler dimension. Hence the IFFT of the complex Doppler signature is calculated.

In step a phase error function is estimated. In one embodiment a value of N 400 in 1 may be selected in order to allow the estimator to be somewhat localized in range while still obtaining good integration gain. The samples used by the estimator may include for example N 2 contiguous samples abutting either side of the range cell under consideration. For the nearest and farthest range gates i.e. those less than N 2 from the edges it may use either the initial N samples or the final N samples.

In step a determination is made whether the phase error is less than a predetermined threshold. If the root mean square RMS of the phase error is less than the threshold the method proceeds to step or otherwise commences in step .

Once the phase correction function for each range gate is determined it may be applied in step producing the compensated range Doppler image given as follows FFT 9 where g k m denotes the raw data samples collected at range gate k and CPI pulse m FFTdenotes the FFT taken with respect to the variable m and tilde over G k u denotes the motion compensated range Doppler image.

The final phase correction function circumflex over m in equation 9 may be used to correct both for clutter mainlobe shifts and smearing due to non linear components of the platform s trajectory. It requires no detailed information about the aircraft s position hence it could function as either a replacement for faulty INS GPS measurements or an enhancement to INS GPS motion compensated range Doppler imagery. While the above methodology assumed targets at a bearing angle of nearly 0 relative to a line of sight perpendicular to the antenna array axis there is nothing to prohibit the beamformer from steering to any arbitrary bearing angle. Such a step should occur naturally as part of the scanning operation of the FORESTER system.

In step an inverse Fourier Transform is applied to transform the image data back to image domain. For instance one representative inverse Fourier Transform equation which may be used is as follows 

In order to quantify the ABC algorithm s effectiveness several metrics which typically are associated with SAR data processing were evaluated by the inventors for the ABC algorithm.

The first metric considered was the average distance between points that are 6.5 dB down on either side of a MTS peak location. This quantity provided an indication of the mainlobe width of a point target and it illustrated how effectively the algorithm eliminated smear in the imagery due to nonlinear aircraft motion. A comparison of the MTS mainlobe widths before and after ABC processing also indicated the degree to which the original range Doppler image had been corrupted.

The next metric considered was target location accuracy. This metric quantifies the accuracy of the MTS Doppler location estimates by 1 calculating the variance between target location estimates from different data cubes and 2 determining the offset between MTS responses that were symmetric relative to zero Doppler. The inventors believed that these were important considerations since the adaptive procedure also calculated a Doppler shift as part of the overall phase correction function. Hence symmetric positive and negative MTS response locations together with a low variance in the final MTS position estimates combined to indicate that the procedure successfully incorporated this portion of the compensation.

More particularly the plot in shows that the location estimates following ABC processing preserved the high degree of symmetry inherent in the MTS responses. In this plot the difference between the corresponding positive and negative frequency estimates are plotted as a function i of the data cube index where calculated i using

Negative frequency bins exist because the indices are adjusted so that zero Doppler occurs at bin number 513. For instance the global Doppler bin may correspond to Doppler bin in equation 11 while the global Doppler bin would correspond to Doppler bin 7 in equation 11. A negative frequency bin x0 if x y 

Examination of reveals that on average almost all of the data cubes yielded estimates of the MTS target locations in Doppler space that were symmetric about zero Doppler i.e. fell within one Doppler bin of zero . The two notable exceptions were cubes and indicating a bias in the ABC estimate of the DC offset.

Another metric consider was the mainlobe width of MTS and MOCOMP outputs. This metric quantified the cost of applying the ABC algorithm to previously motion compensated MTI data. presents the mean difference i.e. ABC estimated mainlobe width versus MOCOMP calculated mainlobe width for several target responses. From the plot it is apparent the maximum difference is a small fraction of one Doppler bin. The plot of suggests that the ABC processing could be applied in addition to or as a backup to standard motion compensation without introducing any adverse effects. Such an approach would add additional robustness and security to the overall system.

An autofocus algorithm for an MTI mode on a hovering platform was developed and tested it using FORESTER data. As part of this development the motion compensation concepts employed by the SAR community were leveraged by the inventors and who further extended them for use by the hovering platform performing MTI. The newly formulated ABC algorithm was found to effectively reduce Doppler domain distortions introduced by errors in the estimated aircraft motion and it has shown promise as a supplement for existing MOCOMP algorithms. With it both Doppler frequency target shifts and Doppler frequency target smearing due to errors in the estimated aircraft motion may be corrected. In addition it is believed that the ABC algorithm introduces no adverse effects on the MTS mainlobe width when it is applied.

Results indicate that ABC algorithm processing may be incorporated as an effective complement for measurement based MOCOMP procedures. For example the experimental results indicate that the ABC algorithm could replace INS GPS MOCOMP procedures when precise measurements of aircraft position are not available. The ABC processing may enable significant contributions to the overall effectiveness and reliability of a hovering MTI system.

The ABC algorithm processing first estimates distortions of a received radar signal due to undesired motion of a hovering aircraft and subsequently removes these distortions. It may be used for either enhancing or replacing an existing MOCOMP system that requires precise real time estimates of the aircraft position provided that the radar system under consideration satisfies certain requirements.

In step range Doppler MTI data is provided from an array based system. The array based system may be the DARPA FORESTER system for example. In some embodiments the radar system under consideration includes an array of L receive antennas providing L coherent channels that support the implementation of standard beam steering algorithms. Beam steering may be implemented via hardware digitally or a combination thereof. In addition to the L receive channels the radar system also measures M coherent pulses within one coherent processing interval CPI and this coherent data is suitable for standard frequency domain analysis such as via a fast Fourier transform FFT . A coherent processing interval CPI of many seconds may be used to produce high resolution for instance. The radar measures all of this coherent data at each of N specific ranges providing the GMTI algorithm access to an N L M data cube.

System architecture of this type has long been used within the GMTI community e.g. for space time adaptive processing STAP as discussed for example by Brennan L. et al. Adaptive arrays in airborne MTI IEEE Trans. 1976 AP 24 5 pp. 607 615 Ward J. Space time adaptive processing for airborne radar Technical Report No. 1015 Lincoln Laboratory MIT December 1994 herein incorporated by reference. This architecture can similarly be applied to a single channel system provided that the system beamwidth is narrow enough to provide adequate angular resolution.

In step beam steering is performed. Beam steering involves changing the direction of the main lobe of a radiation pattern. This may be accomplished by switching antenna elements or by changing the relative phases of the RF signals driving the elements. In one embodiment the beam steering includes steering the receive beam in a desired direction by applying an appropriate phase adjustment at each receive Rx element and summing across the dimension of the N L M data cube corresponding to the antenna array elements. This step reduces the three dimensional N L M data cube to a two dimensional N M data cube. If single channel range Doppler data is used then this step may be eliminated.

In step the width of the main clutter lobe is determined. This may be performed by identifying the Doppler cells that are a at least x dB below the peak value and b closest to the Doppler cell containing the peak value. This operation may be repeated for each of the N range gates. In some instances x may be 10 dB. The closest cell represents the cell offset by the smallest number of pixels from the peak.

In step data that is not part of the main lobe clutter response is excluded or eliminated. To illustrate elimination of the non main lobe clutter response further reference is made to . For example shows the nominal Doppler profile signature magnitude including the Main lobe and non Main lobe clutter . And shows the nominal Doppler profile signature magnitude with the non Main lobe clutter removed. It is noted that the full profiles for both signatures here are complex.

Referring back to in step an inverse FFT is executed along the Doppler dimension. This operation transforms range Doppler data into the Range pulse domain. In step the range gate counter i is initially set to a 1.

In step the phase correction term is calculated similar to a synthetic aperture radar SAR autofocus technique. For example this correction could be calculated according to the following equations 

In step the phase correction term is then applied according to the equation. tilde over 14 Previously in Equation 3 there was a 2 D spatial domain x vs. y . Now in Equation 14 there is a space vs. frequency domain. And the initial image which is to be to sharpened or focused is the range Doppler image.

In step the range gate counter i is increased in value by 1. A determination is made in step whether the range gate counter value i is greater than N. If the determination here is yes the process proceeds to step . Otherwise if the determination is no the process returns to step for the next range gate.

In step the motion compensated beam steered data is converted to the range CPI domain. Since the targets may be assumed to be at extremely far ranges the phase correction term circumflex over m can also be applied separately to each of the L channels. This yields the motion compensated data cube suitable for down stream GMTI e.g. STAP processing.

In the method shown in the ABC processing has been incorporated into an existing MOCOMP system based on aircraft position measurements. In the method shown in the ABC processing replaces an existing MOCOMP system based on aircraft position measurements. Step thus is not present in this process. This enables use of in situ clutter measurements to compensate for unmeasured aircraft motion in hovering GMTI systems. Reliance on measured aircraft position as part of MOCOMP calculation need no longer be solely considered.

Measurement based MOCOMP systems require high precision position estimates to successfully eliminate the GMTI signal distortions in hovering aircraft due to aircraft motion. If the position measurement system fails or provides inaccurate estimates then the motion induced distortions cannot be reliably corrected. In fact if the position estimates are severely erroneous and the aircraft motion is extreme then the compensated GMTI signal may be more distorted than the uncompensated signal.

Embodiments of the present invention solves this problem by formulating a MOCOMP solution adaptively using clutter samples from the observed scene. Earlier imagery demonstrated the effects of aircraft motion on GMTI canonical target signatures. The ABC algorithm effectively sharpens the point target response when motion induced smearing has occurred. It also produces no adverse effects when applied to data that has already been successfully corrected using a measurement based MOCOMP procedure. Moreover the ABC algorithm need not rely upon measured positional information of the moving platform.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

