---

title: Centralized, online multi-seller interface system
abstract: A sales portal system supports a plurality of buyer computers used by a corresponding plurality of buyers. The sales portal system supports a first seller's computer to support sales of a first plurality of products a second seller's computer to support sales of a second plurality of products. The sales portal accesses first product data from the first seller's computer and second product data from the second seller's computer and responds to a query received from one of the plurality of buyer computers by delivering selections from the associated first product data and the associated second product data. The sales portal manages a single sales transaction for a first product of a first seller and a second product of a second seller. The sales portal rates sellers. The sales portal apportions payment, fulfillment, delivery instructions, and other sales components to the first and second sellers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09070167&OS=09070167&RS=09070167
owner: Enpluz, LLC
number: 09070167
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120220
---
The above identified applications are all hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and constitute part of the present application.

The present invention relates generally to online sales and marketing and more specifically to online sales during online purchase on the Internet.

The past ten years have seen tremendous growth in online Internet sales. Integration of key sales functions into sales software and hardware systems account for much of the penetration of online sales systems by manufacturers distributors and retailers. As buyers become more comfortable with Internet and online credit card processing and begin to appreciate the associated ease and benefits of online purchasing online sales revenues should experience exceptional growth. For 1998 online sales reached approximately 60 billion dollars in revenue while projections for 2003 anticipate over 1.4 trillion. Corporate buyers and sellers generate over 90 of such revenues.

Conventional sales systems such as 1 sales or shopping robot shopping bot or sales bot systems 2 purported instant rebate and coupon systems 3 auctioning systems 4 parallel web hosted systems 5 custom sales channel software development etc. however are deficient in many respects and offer only partial solutions. For example the above systems require an excessive investment of human labor for operation suffer from inherent and significant deficiencies in performance and have difficulties in collecting revenue.

More specifically shopping bots act as a front end to the sales process by attempting to assist an individual buyer in comparison shopping of items across sellers on the web. Shopping bots require human intensive interaction not only in setting up an interface to each seller s site but also in the ongoing maintenance of each interface to each seller s site. Shopping bots attempt to read and process information from the web pages of each seller s site which are often changed or deleted or moved to a differing URL. Shopping bots also fail to identify new products at each seller s site without having an employee revisit the seller s site revisit all the links there identify new URL s and associated new web page content and formulate new interfaces thereto.

Without and often in spite of sufficient employee interaction shopping bots will and do suffer from providing incorrect incomplete and outdated information. Shopping bots also 1 fail to provide interfaces with underlying seller product information e.g. further database information involved in the selection process only available during buyer purchasing hypertext linked nested product information etc. 2 fail to provide interfaces with underlying backend database information e.g. inventory restocking schedules etc. 3 cannot determine whether or not a purchase was made making it difficult to collect revenues 4 cannot perform credit card transaction processing 5 cannot handle order fulfillment and so on.

Purported online instant coupons and rebate sites also suffer with many of the same deficiencies. For example without human intervention no mechanisms exist for 1 verifying that a manufacturer s rebate or coupon applies to an independent retailer s offering 2 instantly applying such rebates or coupons 3 placing control in the manufacturer for designating or modifying the number of distributed and or applied coupons or rebates in real time and 4 advertising a rebate or coupon on any web server selected by the manufacturer with processing through another. Thus purported instant coupon and rebate sites require human intensive processing and merely vector buyers to sellers publicly offered web pages that indicate in a poor attempt at mimicking instant processing that a coupon is being applied.

Online auction systems also suffer from many of the same problems. Among such problems and perhaps most importantly conventional online auction systems fail to provide sufficient integration with sellers to enable automated effective use of auctioning as a vehicle to dump excess or discontinued inventory or for promotional purposes.

Custom software development within a wholly controlled sales channel provides a costly approach for exchanging product information pricing etc. When the sales channel is not wholly controlled such information is difficult if not impossible to collect. For example a manufacture may not be able to afford the cost of integrating with a plurality of distributors and retailers that also sell other manufacturers goods wherein each use significantly different sales systems that often change.

Many other problems and disadvantages associated with prior systems will become apparent to one of skill in the art upon review of such prior systems and in light of the teachings herein.

The present invention relates to an add on or enhancement to the current e commerce marketplace. The present invention may integrate into the current online sales or act as a means to replace current online retailers that carry no inventory. The present invention enables a system to position itself between each buyer and seller for every Internet sales transaction. Such positioning involves offering buyers a unique and exclusive Internet sales presence that simplifies the sales process while providing sellers with better sales information seller to seller interaction and additional sales opportunities. The present invention offers a modular product line and application toolkit targeting not only on the independent buyer but also corporate buyers where the majority of sales transactions occur.

Many other aspects and variations of the promotion system of the present invention can be appreciated by one of skill in the art through review of the detailed description corresponding drawings and claims.

Referring to when a Buyer i.e. individuals or business entities such as for example corporations distributers or retailers desires to purchase several Products i.e. goods or services from a plurality of Sellers i.e. manufacturers distributers or retailers via the internet the Buyer typically must first via the Buyer s computer search for the Products and locate the various Sellers online using for example a listing site and or search engine . The search results may for example identify a Seller System that only sells a desired Product A a Seller s System that only sells a desired Product B a Seller s System that sells both desired Products a Seller s System that sells neither of the desired Products and a Seller that maintains a Non Sales System . The Buyer however does not know which System identified will support the desired purchase until the Buyer undertakes the time consuming process of accessing and navigating each of the identified Seller s Systems. The Buyer must then find the prices for the Products and select the Seller or Sellers from which to buy the Products. Often during the selection process the Buyer must access and re access selected Seller s System s to compare the Products and their prices.

In other words the Buyer is faced with the problem of identifying the type and model of the Products desired the Seller s that carry them and whether those Seller s support on line purchases. In addition if the Buyer eventually identifies several Products that might meet the desired requirements the Buyer has no easy way to compare the Products or their prices regardless of whether the Buyer is looking for the Same Products i.e. identical Products from a single manufacturer sold by multiple Sellers or Similar Products i.e. like Products from different manufacturers sold by multiple Sellers . Moreover once the Product s and Seller s are finally selected the Buyer must often undertake multiple transactions with at least one transaction for each Seller.

The above process is further complicated by the fact that the initial step of identifying via the internet the desired Products and the Sellers who provide the Products is not inherently easy. Search engines often provide unorganized results. The Buyer is therefore required to undergo the further time consuming process of sifting through the search results just to locate possible matches.

In general therefore even though comparing Products and prices by conducting searches using a search engine or listing site such as Excite or Yahoo is possible the process is not very productive especially if the Buyer wants to specify an upper limit to the price the Buyer is willing to pay for one or more Products. Search query formulations on typical search engines simply do not enable a Buyer to specify upper limits for Product prices. In addition as mentioned above if a Buyer locates one or more Sellers the Buyer must interact with each one individually and often sequentially to determine if a purchase can be made. Of course no two sales systems picked at random are likely to be similar. Therefore the Buyer must learn to query the sales system of each and every Seller.

To make matters more complicated Buyers often like to receive quotes for the cost of purchasing a set of Products from different Sellers without having to consummate any purchase right away. The Buyer is usually not permitted to save such quotes at the Sellers System requiring the Buyer to re request quotes every time the System is accessed. This problem is compounded when a Buyer identifies Products desired from different Sellers and views quotes for some of those Products without the ability to save any of the quotes for subsequent access and use.

Even if a Buyer prints quotes provided by multiple Sellers if the Buyer wants to change the desired Product list and generate a new quote for the changed Product list from a particular Seller the Buyer is often required to interact with that Seller s online Sales System to enter the information all over again. In the rare situation where a Seller allows a Buyer to save quotes for some duration those saved quotes are likely to be discarded by the Seller after a period of suspended sales activity.

Once the Buyer finally gets to the point of actually purchasing Products via the internet the Buyer must interact with each Seller individually and sequentially to provide the Buyer s shipping information and credit card related information. Usually the Buyer is prompted to provide such information before the Buyer can consummate a purchase. If the amount quoted by an online Seller for the currently selected Products from a Buyer s list is larger than the available credit on the credit card provided by the Buyer the sales activity is often terminated. Even when the Buyer is in possession of multiple credit cards and their combined available credit exceeds the quoted amount for a Products list it is often not possible for the Buyer to complete the purchase due to the inability of the online Sales System of the Seller to handle such complicated transactions.

In addition to the problems discussed above a Buyer that is also a corporation experiences its own unique set of problems when it buys in bulk from online Sellers. For example the Buyer often must have sufficient storage capacity to house the Product purchased before the Product can be distributed. In addition when a Buyer is purchasing and storing the Product as such the Buyer is often paying a higher price for the Product than it would have paid if the Buyer had simply waited and bought the Product when the Buyer was ready to distribute it. This is particularly true of high technology Products such as for example computers whose prices drop rapidly as the state of the art improves. Thus it is often desirable for a Buyer to determine the cost of purchasing just some of the desired Products in the near future as opposed to purchasing them all at a current time period. There is currently no online sales system in widespread usage that enables a Buyer to obtain graduated quotes as such. Consequently the advantages of buying in bulk online are often vitiated.

Additionally when a Seller sells one or more Products to a Buyer on the internet there is often an opportunity for the Seller or for other Sellers to sell a related but distinct item to the Buyer that is perhaps available at another Seller s online Sales System. For example a Buyer purchasing a computer from an online Seller may also be in the market for a computer desk and a computer chair. However nearly all such sales opportunities go undetected and untapped because Sellers do not have the ability or motivation to automatically share sales related activity information with each other.

Further if a Seller has built up inventory of one or more Products that it wants to dispose of at an accelerated rate it has no means to offload such inventory online.

Small Sellers experience even more difficulty in selling Products online Before even buying Products via the internet Buyers generally need to have confidence in the Sellers which may not be the case unless the seller is well known or has a good reputation. Absent such confidence Buyers may decide to pay a higher price simply for the comfort of dealing with a known Seller.

In addition small online Sellers often do not have the Sales Systems necessary to provide online sales support. Such online Sales Systems often require web hosting services product configuration and pricing databases credit card processing systems etc. Small online Sellers often purchase web hosting and sales support services from internet service providers or from online malls. However Buyers can only get to such Seller s Sales System when Buyers locate and subsequently migrate to them for browsing.

Sellers often provide coupons and rebates as an incentive to promote sales of specific Products. Sellers who offer coupons on the internet experience their own unique set of problems. More specifically referring to in a typical scenario a manufacturer first must speculate to identify the timing amount and quantity of each rebate and coupon. The manufacturer creates and delivers paper rebates coupons to a distributor who forwards the paper rebates coupons to a retailer . The manufacturer may deliver the paper rebates coupons directly to the retailer . To use a rebate coupon the retailer must modify their product database web server content and possibly their sales application. This burden along with the burden of having to collect from the manufacturer dissuades the retailer from participating in the rebate coupon process.

Alternatively the manufacturer may use a third party to deliver the coupons rebates directly to the Buyer.

In addition Sellers who provide coupons and rebates for Products on the internet often do not have the ability to control the amounts dispensed or to whom they are dispensed. This often leads to problems when too many or too few rebates coupons are dispensed online by a Seller. A manufacturer desires to determine the rate at which the rebates coupons are accessed and redeemed by Buyers so as to alter the volume of rebates coupons offered or discount given. However rebates offered on the internet cannot be easily tracked and without such tracking a Seller cannot determine when to alter the rebate coupon value or the number of rebates coupons dispensed.

Furthermore in most situations retail Sellers on the internet do not have the ability or the facility to honor rebates supplied by manufacturers or distributors. This is also true for coupons. Buyers are then left with no option for redeeming such coupons and rebates. In the case of rebates Buyers might be able to send the rebates along with the Buyer s sales receipts to manufacturers via post snail mail and subsequently redeem them via post.

Additionally when Buyers are typically provided a quote by the online sales system of online Sellers for the products selected for purchase the Buyers have the option to cancel the transactions and not purchase any Products. When they choose not to consummate a sale after a quote is provided to them the Sellers do not have a second opportunity to provide a better quote or sweeten the deal causing the Seller to lose a potential sale.

After receiving the Products purchased from various Sellers if the Buyer is interested in registering the Products with the manufacturers for technical support reasons or for Product update reasons the Buyer must typically fill in registration cards and mail them to the manufacturers via post snail mail . In the case of software purchased over the internet the buyer if often prompted by the software during its installation to fill in a registration form full of questions. Such online registrations for each software purchased are a chore that Buyers often bypass at the risk of foregoing tech support from the manufacturer.

In general without registering the product purchased Buyers are not likely to receive warranty support or tech support. If Buyers are interested in registering the Product purchased with the manufacturer the Buyer must mail receipts of the Products purchased and sometimes even proofs of purchase such as barcodes along with registration cards to the manufacturer. If a Buyer misplaces either the receipt or the registration card registering the products with the manufacturers is very difficult.

When manufacturers offer rebates on specific Products the Buyer in general must mail in the rebates that apply to the Products purchased. Again mailing in rebates to manufacturers requires an investment of time and energy. For rebates being offered over the internet Sellers must request and collect the information print it and mail it with receipts and sales information for redemption.

The problems related to redemption of rebates are in some ways similar to the problems with the redemption of coupons. Even if buyers can locate coupons for some of the products that they intend to buy on the internet typically there is no easy way to redeem them on internet purchases.

Referring now to quite often manufacturers of products employ several distributors and retailers to sell their products. Often these distributors and retailers have their own internet sales presence and endeavor to sell the manufacturers products on the internet. One of the common problems faced by these distributors and retailers is their inability to assure Buyers of the availability of products whether the product is coming from theirs or the manufacturer s inventory. This causes problems during order fulfillment activities after a Buyer makes a purchase and delay in delivery follows. Manufacturers do not have the ability to determine the sales executed by their various retailers and distributors. This causes the Seller problems in determining production targets.

Often a Seller would want to determine the selling price of specific Products being offered for sale by other online Sellers see e.g. . This however is not easy. Such information may be gathered by visiting the online sales sites of various vendors and browsing or executing queries on each of those sales sites to extract pricing information. This solution does not scale up.

If manufacturers want to control the flow of rebates in an automated way they require information such as the volume of sales from their distributors and retailers. In the online internet based sales environment coupons and rebates dispensed to Buyers cannot be easily tracked and reported especially if the individual distributors and retailers have online sales systems that don t interact with each other and don t communicate information easily as is the situation when they all have heterogeneous sales environments. A related problem is one of determining the sale prices for similar products from different retailers and distributors that sell the same family of products from a manufacturer.

Quite often third party web hosting companies host online sales systems for multiple vendors some of whom might be involved in selling Similar or Same Products see e.g. . If online vendors have to determine prices of similar Products or the same Products sold by their competition it is often difficult to obtain such information in a timely manner even when the competing vendors are hosted by the same web hosting service provider. Among other reasons for this one important reason is the fact that each vendor employs their own proprietary tools and system design to store product information customer information sales information etc.

If a product manufacturer their distributors and retailers each manage their own online sales system then it is difficult for them to correlate similar or the same information contained in each of their systems. If they choose to install and use similar sales systems to alleviate this problem then the distributors and retailers are either constrained to carrying products from that single manufacturer or they are forced to support several such manufacturer specific proprietary sales systems. Therefore in order to minimize the number of such sales systems that they have to support and interact with and yet not limit themselves to a few manufacturers distributors and retailers are often forced to maintain their own individual and customized sales system that is not necessarily tied to any individual manufacturer. By doing so they encounter the problems of correlation of data in their sales systems and in those of the manufacturers.

The Buyer s computer interacts with the MSIS via internet . Similarly the MSIS interacts with the Seller s systems and via internet . Optionally the MSIS may choose to interact with any of the Seller s systems and via a dedicated network or via an intranet.

Typically in response to a Buyer s selection of product categories the MSIS sends queries to one or more Seller s systems to extract product and pricing information from the corresponding Seller s system. In response the Seller s systems typically return shopping carts filled with those Buyer specified products that they are capable of selling along with prices for the products and optionally their inventory of the products.

A Buyer using a Buyer s computer interacts with the MSIS over internet to specify queries related to products that he intends to purchase. Such interactions typically involve navigating down a hierarchy of product categories to identify those that the Buyer is interested in or specifying a search criteria via a search interface to extract information on products and product categories and to identify relevant product categories.

Among other things the MSIS also supports product category selection search query formulation instant coupon and rebate processing shopping cart comparison composite shopping cart review shopping cart pricing and saved quote repricing quote persistence and query persistence scheduled delivery information from Buyers customer profile auto transactions opportunity management and sales agent support automatic registration of products on behalf of Buyers Warranty management. In addition it also includes Sales Bridge software interface that makes it possible to interact with Seller s systems and .

Seller s systems comprises a Seller s sales software and a Sales Bridge software . The Seller s Sales software includes a web server software an Application server software and a Sales databases . The Sales Bridge software comprises a Query Bridge and a Transaction Bridge .

The Query Bridge is used to query one or more Sales databases using queries formulated by the MSIS or queries created from search information sent by the MSIS . Information extracted by the Query Bridge is communicated to the MSIS over communication links . The Transaction Bridge is typically employed by the MSIS to conduct credit card based sales transactions with the Seller s system .

Later at a block the MSIS assists Buyers in generating a query for subsequent submission of those queries to Seller s systems. Queries can take the form of old saved quotes or shopping carts coupons selected rebates selected query text third party shopping carts sales brochures persistent queries etc.

Later at a block the MSIS preprocesses Buyer specified queries and delivers them to selected Seller systems that are identified based on one or more search criteria including in some cases product categories customer profiles etc. Some of these queries are selectively cached in memory by the MSIS .

When the Seller s systems respond with product and pricing information for example with priced shopping carts that include all or a subset of the Buyer s product list the MSIS presents the information to Buyer for interaction with the Buyer. Optionally such information is presented as a comparison of products and prices. If a customer s query fails to retrieve results from Seller s systems the MSIS makes a transition to the block .

Otherwise the MSIS continues to a block where it responds to Buyer s selection and acceptance of product prices by interacting with none or more corresponding Seller s systems to complete the sales transactions. Subsequently at a block the MSIS performs post sales functions which selectively includes registration warranties updates maintenance contracts opportunity management etc. Opportunity management is employed to generate additional sales or repeat sales.

To interact with the system of the present invention a buyer corporate or individual merely accesses web pages provided by the MSIS with conventional web browser software on the buyer s computer. The buyer interacts with the MSIS to define queries relating to one or more desired products. The MSIS automatically attempts to identify those of the plurality of participating sellers that might carry such products. Once defined each query is simultaneously communicated by the MSIS to each of Seller s Sales System SSS via the SBS modules of the identified ones of the plurality of participating sellers. Using a query bridging approach each SBS module performs a search of product pricing inventory etc. database s based on the query. All sales information relating to each product identified in the search is delivered to the MSIS for the buyer s review comparison and selection. The MSIS permits concurrent selection and single transaction purchasing of products from more than one seller. Caching of common queries on a day to day basis is also supported by the MSIS to minimize communication overhead.

The sales information returned from each SSS represents complete real time public and private sales information catering not only to individual buyers but more importantly to sellers. For example in response to queries from individual buyers or competitors the query bridge of the present invention may easily be configured to deliver public information such as pricing and product descriptions. For queries generated within a selling channel i.e. by a manufacturer distributor or retailer or by their sales systems private information relating to each product such as inventory inventory projections numbers sold margins etc. may be easily and automatically exchanged. Such information can be used for forecasting inventory pricing planning promotional activities e.g. instant coupons auctioning and rebate programs and production planning for example.

The MSIS supports query definition in several ways to provide the buyer with greatly needed yet currently unavailable functionality. For example through a category selection process and or textual search term entry a buyer can construct a query to simultaneously retrieve from all sellers all underlying product sales information matching the query. The buyer can also generate a query from online rebate and coupon information for true instant processing unlike current online rebate and coupon vendors who incorrectly claim to do the same. Queries may be generated from third party seller shopping carts for comparison with participating sellers products. Saved quotes may be converted to queries for updating and verification and may be used as a persistent basis via sales email for attempting to complete the transaction with the buyer. Further queries may be generated from advertising information e.g. online auction descriptions online sales brochures etc. whether or not such information originates within the MSIS.

Selling channel systems also generate queries in a number of ways with or without interaction through a web client user interface . Automatic data gathering between participants in the selling channel will permit an application based on a toolkit to automatically 1 place or suggest placing orders to replenish inventory 2 identify new product offerings 3 suggest pricing changes 4 facilitate just in time delivery 5 identify and or maintain appropriate inventory levels 6 suggest or carry out changes or additions to advertising and promotional programs 7 schedule release of upgraded or superseding products etc. Competing selling channel systems may also be queried automatically or otherwise to gather public information regarding competing product lines. Such information may be used to supplement the automatic processes identified in items 1 7 above for example. A toolkit underlying the MSIS simplifies preparation of application software to carry out such and other processes. Such application software may run on any or all system s within a sales channel. In fact such application software or portions thereof may be placed at many locations within a single organization to carry out internal enterprise sales functions.

The toolkit underlying the MSIS also provides for up cross and seller to seller opportunity management for automated email based target marketing without the need to release buyer information to a participating seller. For example the MSIS permits a first seller to establish relationships between completed and or queried sales transactions within categories and or by a specified second seller. Based thereon predefined email is automatically sent to buyers or potential buyers advertising sales of the first seller s products that relate to the category or to the second seller s product.

From a buyer s online perspective the MSIS performs a single transaction e.g. credit card processing of multiple product selections spanning more than one seller. Based on final configuration the underlying transaction may actually involve 1 a plurality of transaction processes between each seller and the buyer using the buyer s credit card information and or 2 a single credit card transaction for the total from the buyer to the MSIS along with a plurality of transaction processes with each seller involving account information of the MSIS.

As part of the sales transaction or in follow up thereto the MSIS performs automated registration warranty delivery and acceptance maintenance contract offerings and purchases and emailed product information regarding updates and upgrades services. Stored buyer profiles minimize buyer interaction required to carry out sales transactions and such associated services. Stored buyer transaction records enable targeted email advertising persistent query support opportunity management etc.

The MSIS can upon a seller s request and in addition to or in replacement of the seller s sales system perform transaction and or other sales processing for the seller. In addition the MSIS provides each seller with real time access to product sales information from the seller s competitors and own sales chain. The query protocol and the SBS enable a corporate buyer to develop specifically desired sales interfaces into one or more seller systems. The underlying functionality and software libraries used in the MSIS may be specifically licensed for such purpose. Corporate buyers are also supported through scheduled purchasing and just in time delivery functionality within the MSIS.

The present invention may generate revenue by taking a percentage of each completed sales transaction conducted through the MSIS. To generate further revenue the MSIS tracks each buyer s use of the web site whether or not a transaction is completed and offers to provide sellers with information for potential future sales opportunities. Similarly the System offers instant rebate and coupon processing direct email targeted sales advertising space and persistence in exchange for transaction percentages. Credit card processing delivery tracking customer support and other backend sales functions can be offered generating further revenue streams.

The System may be based on web server and application server software products offered by Trilogy Development Group a company located in Austin Tex.

The SaleBridge software is placed on each seller s online sales system to bridge communication between the SalePoint software and each seller s online sales databases and applications. Buyers may then simultaneously access many independent and different seller s sales systems. Similarly groups of sellers within one or more sales channels can easily and automatically share sales and product information.

As shown in the SalePoint software will support web based interactive access by buyers and sellers through their web clients and non web based automatic access by the sellers through an interface.

The SaleBridge software uses both query and transaction bridging functionality to couple each seller s system with the SalePoint software. Alternatively such bridging functionality may be partially or entirely integrated into the seller s system.

For each of the application services transaction logic a high level scripting language is written to include a sequence of tasks that each manipulate data or objects with each of the tasks executed by underlying task specific transaction logic or compiled code hereinafter a workflow object or both. Although transaction logic is specifically written for each of the application services many of the workflow objects and underlying task specific transaction logic are shared by different application services.

Some examples of the application services contemplated by the present invention can be found with reference to below. The tasks executed by the transaction logic engine may include for example credit card related transactions database searches database updates remote transactions executed on one or more seller s systems etc.

The transaction logic engine interacts with several other web server components of the SalePoint Software such as a query generator scheduling component usage tracking management component email component 3rd party web server interface credit card processing interface and a remote transaction handler. The query generator creates queries based on information provided by buyer data retrieved from database s information provided via method invocations from non web server interface etc. The queries generated by the query generator are selectively sent to SaleBridge software associated with remote Seller s systems to extract various kinds of sales information.

The scheduling component is used to periodically initiate various tasks transaction logic and activities such as reporting or re pricing etc. For example a buyer or seller can schedule various activities and specify when and how frequently they should be executed through associated application services. The schedules and the activities are saved in databases by the scheduling component for subsequent retrieval and execution by the transaction logic engine.

Although usage tracking might have been implemented via transaction logic it is implemented as a separate component to collect process and report information regarding the use of the SalePoint Software by buyers and sellers. The usage tracking component provides information on products sold by various sellers product sales volume type of products being sold inventory information and various other sales related information. The usage tracking component provides information with different levels of granularity as required and authorized by various buyers and sellers.

The management component is used to manage various activities scheduled or unscheduled for buyers and sellers. It is also used to manage initializations application service deployment updates recycling and shutdown of various resources.

The email component is used to send email to one or more buyers or buyer groups after the processing of certain events or after the execution of a scheduled or unscheduled transaction logic command. It is also used to send various information such as for example buyer purchasing and query profiles to sellers and to email promotional material such as coupons and rebates to one or more buyers.

The 3rd party web server interface is used to interact with remote web servers to retrieve or to provide various kinds of information. Using this interface it is possible to interact with remote web servers just like web clients on those web servers.

The credit card processing component is used to interact or conduct transactions with remote credit card processing units. Such remote credit card processing units may be located at seller s environments or incorporated into a seller s system. The credit card processing component enables a buyer to selectively spread purchases over one or more credit cards owned by the buyer and to spread a buyer s shopping cart purchase over several sellers.

The remote transaction handler provides support for interactions with SaleBridge Software installed with one or more remote seller s sales systems. It employs one or more communication mechanisms such as Remote Method Invocation RMI Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA TCPIIP Voyager etc. to communicate with remote software and retrieve information. Remote SaleBridge Software can initiate communications with the SalePoint Software in order to retrieve information provide information or request some service. It also supports communication with external systems such as third party credit card systems and monitoring tools.

The seller s system may also contain the seller s non web applications web based applications and card processing application. The SaleBridge Software may also interact with the seller s applications to extract product pricing and inventory information as well as to conduct credit card based transactions.

If the seller s system includes a web server the SaleBridge Software may also provide a web based application bridge to assist the query bridge in extracting product pricing and inventory information. The query bridge is responsible for mapping or translating queries sent by SalePoint Software into one or more queries executable on the seller s databases to retrieve and possibly update information in the seller s databases.

The SaleBridge Software also provides a non web based application bridge to extract information from the seller s system via the seller s non web applications interface. The non web based application bridge is employed via an interface supporting remote access based on CORBA RMI etc.

The SaleBridge software also includes a transaction bridge that can be used to interact with the seller s card processing application to process credit card purchases. For example a buyer s credit card and shopping cart related information may be communicated to the seller s card processing application to complete a transaction for the buyer.

To interact with the SaleBlazer service a buyer merely uses conventional web browser software on the buyer s computer. The buyer interacts to define a query relating to one or more desired products. The SaleBlazer service via the SalePoint Software identifies those of the plurality of participating sellers that might carry such products. Once defined the SalePoint Software simultaneously communicates the query to SaleBridge Software at each of the identified participating sellers.

Using the query and transaction bridging approach of the present invention each SaleBridge Software component performs a search of product pricing inventory etc. databases based on the query. All sales information relating to each product identified in the search is delivered to the SalePoint Software for presentation to the buyer. The buyer may review compare and select one or more of the products returned from one or more of the participating sellers. Caching of common queries on a day to day basis will also be supported by the SaleBlazer service to minimize communication overhead.

From an individual buyer s online perspective the SaleBlazer service will perform a single transaction e.g. credit card processing of multiple product selections spanning more than one seller. Based on final configuration the underlying transaction may actually involve 1 a plurality of transaction processes between each seller and the buyer using the buyer s credit card information and or 2 a single credit card transaction for the total from the buyer to the MSIS along with a plurality of transaction processes with each seller involving account information of the MSIS.

As part of the sales transaction or in follow up thereto the SaleBlazer service will perform automated registration warranty delivery and acceptance maintenance contract offerings and purchases and emailed product information regarding updates and upgrades services. Stored buyer profiles will minimize buyer interaction required to carry out sales transaction and such associated services.

SaleBridge Software on Bidder s System is employed by the MSIS to interact with the bidder s system and periodically update information on the status on bids. In addition the inventory of various products available on the bidder s system is selectively accessed by the MSIS via the SaleBridge.

Requesters using a Requester s Web Client and Bidders using a Bidder s Web Client may interact with the MSIS via an Affiliated Bidding Web App Server which selectively sends Requests or bids to the MSIS and provides information about them to Requesters and Bidders. Similarly 3rd Party Bidding Web App Servers employ the services of the MSIS to save bid related information and to conduct the bid resolution activities. The various participants in the request and bidding process are periodically informed about the status of the bids via email. When bids are decided and the Requester selects a Bidder say a lowest bidder the MSIS facilitates the execution of the transactions to consummate the purchase of the products by the Requester.

In one embodiment the MSIS automatically provides to the Requester a reference bid that comprises lowest bids for individual products from multiple Bidders thereby assembling the lowest total bid to be used whether as a reference or as an actual bid which can be used for purchase by the Requester. Multiple Sellers may be included in such a reference bid. When multiple Bidders are selected by a Requester where each Bidder supplies part of the Request the MSIS facilitates the completion of the purchase by the Request from multiple Bidders.

In general the Integrated Channel Service Manager communicates with SalesBridge software integrated with individual Seller systems. Specifically the Integrated Channel Service Manager communicates with the SalesBridge software installed with each of the Seller systems namely the manufacturer environment Reseller A Distributor B and Retailer C.

More specifically the Integrated Channel Service Manager sends queries related to order status inventory levels pricing and product configuration to the manufacturer environment and receives information from the manufacturer environment. It also selectively sends information related to product sales pricing inventory order status etc. retrieved from Reseller A and Distributor B to the manufacturer environment. In addition the Integrated Channel Service Manager facilitates the selective exchange of sales inventory pricing configuration order status etc. between the manufacturer environment the Reseller A Distributor B and Retailer C. Such selective exchange of information between the manufacturer environment Reseller A and Reseller B occurs via the SalesBridge software integrated with their respective systems under the supervision or control of the Integrated Channel Service Manager.

As discussed above quite often manufacturers of products employ several distributors resellers and retailers to sell their products. Often these distributors and retailers have their own internet sales presence and endeavor to sell the manufacturers products on the internet. One of the common problems faced by these distributors and retailers is their inability to assure Buyers of the availability of products whether the product is coming from their own or the manufacturer s inventory. This causes problems during order fulfillment activities after a Buyer makes a purchase and delay in delivery follows. In general manufacturers do not have the ability to determine the sales executed by their various retailers and distributors. This causes the Seller problems in determining production targets.

These problems are solved by integrating the sales order fulfillment and manufacturing systems of all sellers in the channel as shown for example in . Such integration is facilitated by the Integrated Channel service Manager and the individual SalesBridge software incorporated in the software of each of the partners in the channel.

Specifically in the manufacturing environment in accordance with the present invention the sales systems of manufacturers and their distributors is integrated with a the order fulfillment systems of the manufacturer and all the resellers and distributors b the inventory management systems of the manufacturer c the pricing systems of the manufacturer s and distributors d the promotion systems of all Sellers and e the Configuration systems of the manufacturer which may be shared by all the distributors and resellers. This makes it possible to not only provide the ability to fulfill orders for an individual Buyer from multiple sellers i.e. one or more distributors and manufacturers but also the ability to incorporate different pricing schemes and promotional schemes in fulfilling the order. In addition such integration makes it possible to incorporate information about the inventory levels of the manufacturer and distributors in determining the delivery date and shipping costs for the Buyer.

In an environment where a manufacturer is not directly involved such as in a sales environment incorporating a large master reseller and their distributors and retailers the sales systems of master resellers and their distributors and retailers is integrated with each Seller s a order fulfillment systems b inventory management systems c pricing systems and d promotion systems to accrue the benefits described in the previous paragraph.

Often a Seller such as a manufacturer desires to determine the selling price of specific Products being offered for sale by other online Sellers and their current inventory levels of those Products especially if the other Sellers are the Seller s own distributors. This however is not easy. Such information may be gathered by visiting the online sales sites of various Sellers distributors and browsing or executing queries on each of those sales sites to extract pricing information. However the integration of the sales systems and inventory management systems of the various distributors and retailers of a Product manufacturer makes it possible for the manufacturer to extract pricing and inventory information from the various distributors and retailers. It is also possible for the manufacturer to not only provide the distributors and retailers with a centrally maintained and shared set of product information and marketing collateral but also provide forecasts of future pricing changes delivery schedules manufacturing schedules and inventory levels.

Another benefit of such integration is the ability to control promotions. For example the integration of sales and inventory systems from multiple sellers such as those of a manufacturer and the manufacturer s distributors and retailers would make it possible to control the flow of promotional offerings coupons rebates etc. in an automated way that would also permit adjusting the promotional offerings dynamically to meet sales targets. In such an integrated environment the adjustments of promotional offerings is driven by several parameters including the volume of sales from the distributors and retailers the product inventory levels at various shelves and warehouses maintained by the manufacturer and distributors the shelf life of the products etc. In the online internet based sales environment the value of coupons and rebates dispensed to Buyers are thus easily tracked altered dynamically.

The integration of sales systems from multiple sellers especially the integration of sales systems of manufacturers and their distributors makes it possible to determine the sale prices for similar products from different retailers and distributors that sell the same family of products from a manufacturer.

The partners of an integrated channel can retrieve configuration related information from the Manufacturer s configuration system via the Integrated Channel Service Manager. Such information may also be selectively cached by the Integrated Channel Service Manager. The same is true for Pricing information. Similarly catalogs of products may be maintained by the manufacturer which are then accessed by the resellers distributors and retailers via the Integrated Channel Service Manager and optionally directly from the manufacturer environment in coordination with the Integrated Channel Service Manager.

The integration of sales order fulfillment inventory management systems pricing systems and promotion systems from various Selling entities that form a part of a manufacturer s channel organization is achieved by a specifying interactions between these systems b identifying information exchange c specifying programming interfaces APIs and protocols for information exchange and d constructing transactional systems that support such interactions based on the protocols.

The interactions between the various systems are expressed as Use Cases and scenarios. The Use Cases also capture details of information exchange. Information exchange is typically expressed in terms of business objects such as Quotes Line Items Shopping Carts Prices Discounts Orders Contracts etc. that are exchanged between systems. The actual transfer of information is carried out in one of two ways 1 using XML based information structures for transfer of structured data between systems or 2 exchanging references to objects that are saved or instantiated in a common data exchange layer that is accessible to all participating systems.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Integrated Channel Service Manager is capable of interacting with Seller s systems manufacturers resellers distributors and retailers employing a SalesBridge software that is installed on each of the Seller s systems. The SalesBridge software is used by the Integrated Channel Service Manager to execute queries sent to the Seller s systems from the Integrated Channel Service Manager. The Seller systems of the manufacturers resellers distributors and retailers in response return shopping carts with prices back to the Integrated Channel Service Manager. In general the SalesBridge is used by the Integrated Channel Service Manager as a remote database layer that is capable of translating queries received from the Integrated Channel Service Manager into queries and processes that retrieve the requested information such as configuration pricing and inventory from the Seller s Sales and other software.

The Integrated Channel Service Manager includes one or more web server software components with which Buyers computers interact one or more Application server software components that provide various Sales services to Buyers accessing them over the internet and one or more Sales databases that is used to save various kinds of information such as customer profile saved quotes product categories etc.

Among other things the Integrated Channel Service Manager also supports product category selection search query formulation instant coupon and rebate processing shopping cart comparison composite shopping cart review shopping cart pricing and saved quote re pricing quote persistence and query persistence scheduled delivery information from Buyers customer profile auto transactions opportunity management and sales agent support automatic registration of products on behalf of Buyers and Warranty management. In addition it also includes a SalesBridge software interface that makes it possible to interact with the Seller s systems.

The Integrated Channel Service Manager activities include identifying potential Sellers for Buyers based on the Buyer s preferences and the actual inventory levels of the Sellers in the Channel. In addition it identifies one or more Seller systems in the Channel as potential participants in a sale. Should the Buyer decide to consummate a sale based on the recommendation of Sellers by the Integrated Channel Service Manager the Seller systems participating in the sale are informed of their role in fulfilling the Buyer s order by the Integrated Channel Service Manager. Subsequently the order fulfillment systems of the Sellers are queried by the Integrated Channel Service Manager to retrieve order status information on behalf of the Buyer.

The Integrated Channel Service Manager assists Buyers in generating a query for subsequent submission of those queries to Seller s systems. Queries can take the form of old saved quotes or shopping carts coupons selected rebates selected query text third party shopping carts sales brochures persistent queries etc. The Integrated Channel Service Manager preprocesses Buyer specified queries and delivers them to selected Seller systems that are identified based on one or more search criteria including in some cases product categories customer profiles inventory levels pricing information etc.

When the Seller s systems respond with product and pricing information for example with priced shopping carts that include all or a subset of the Buyer s product list the Integrated Channel Service Manager presents the information to Buyer for interaction with the Buyer. Optionally such information is presented as a comparison of products and prices.

Typically if a Buyer s order cannot be fulfilled by one individual Seller the Integrated Channel Service Manager responds to Buyer s specification of product and pricing selection by interacting with one or more corresponding Seller s systems to complete the sales transactions. Subsequently the Integrated Channel Service Manager performs post sales functions which selectively include registration warranties updates maintenance contracts opportunity management etc. Opportunity management is employed to generate additional sales or repeat sales.

In one embodiment in order to share information in the channel the Integrated Channel Service Manager provides an information exchange layer that is populated with relevant data extracted from each of the participants in the Integrated Channel. Such information is later accessed by other participants under the control and coordination of the Integrated Channel Service Manager. The information exchange layer is implemented using an object oriented database objects of information being transferred to or retrieved from the participants of an Integrated Channel as XML based structured data. In another embodiment the information exchange layer maintained by the Integrated Channel Service Manager is an object oriented layer of software and associated processing software implemented over a relational database.

The Integrated Channel Service Manager thus makes it possible to provide a Buyer with a quote for the set of products the Buyer desires the quote being assembled from information extracted from one or more participants of the Integrated Channel System and including products and prices provided by one or more of such participants. When such a quote is found acceptable by the Buyer and the Buyer places an order based on the quote provided the Integrated Channel Service Manager disassembles the quote to provide relevant portions of the quote to the actual participant selling the product to the Buyer as sub quotes and then forwards the sub quotes to the participants involved. The Integrated Channel Service Manager selectively when required executes credit card processing to execute a single sales transaction for the Buyer that covers all of the sub quotes and thus stands in and executes sales transactions on behalf of all the participants. In addition order status information is retrieved as necessary and when required to enable the Buyer to follow up on the order placed.

In general the Integrated Channel Service Manager communicates with SalesBridge software integrated with individual Seller systems. Specifically the Integrated Channel Service Manager communicates with the SalesBridge software installed with each of the Seller systems namely the manufacturer environment Reseller A Distributor B and Retailer C.

More specifically the Integrated Channel Service Manager sends queries related to order status inventory levels pricing and product configuration to the manufacturer environment and receives information from the manufacturer environment. It also selectively sends information related to product sales pricing inventory order status etc. retrieved from Reseller A and Distributor B to the manufacturer environment. In addition the Integrated Channel Service Manager facilitates the selective exchange of sales inventory pricing configuration order status etc. between the manufacturer environment the Reseller A Distributor B and Retailer C. Such selective exchange of information between the manufacturer environment Reseller A Distributor B and Retailer C occurs via the SalesBridge software integrated with their respective systems under the supervision or control of the Integrated Channel Service Manager.

As discussed above quite often manufacturers of products employ several distributors resellers and retailers to sell their products. Often these distributors and retailers have their own internet sales presence and endeavor to sell the manufacturers products on the internet. One of the common problems faced by these distributors and retailers is their inability to assure Buyers of the availability of products whether the product is coming from their own or the manufacturer s inventory. This causes problems during order fulfillment activities after a Buyer makes a purchase and delay in delivery follows. In general manufacturers do not have the ability to determine the sales executed by their various retailers and distributors. This causes the Seller problems in determining production targets.

These problems are solved by integrating the sales order fulfillment and manufacturing systems of all sellers in the channel as shown for example in . Such integration is facilitated by the Integrated Channel Service Manager and the individual SalesBridge software incorporated in the software of each of the partners in the channel.

SalesBridge software in addition to facilitating sales transactions and providing a querying interface also provides support for the following services 

SalesBridge MapTool or simply MapTool is a data mapping system or tool. It consists of the three pieces mentioned above 

a a GUI and programmatic events that allow a consultant to map SalesBridge objects to from fields and tables in a foreign database 

b a data transfer engine which at run time connects to the foreign database and allows the actual transfer of information between the two systems and

In addition the SalesBridge software makes use of some of the artifacts captured by the SalesBridge MapTool to extract information save information and to modify information as necessary in the database or associated software systems at the Seller s environment.

The mapping between the Seller s database or run time systems and the SalesBridge component is performed as follows 

1. The MapTool using JDBC or ODBC or JDBC ODBC based programming api s interacts with the foreign database Seller s database and retrieves schema information using Seller provided username and passwords.

2. The MapTool accesses SalesBridge metadata information from the SalesBridge software or retrieves them from the MSIS system to identify mapping requirements.

3. The MapTool facilitates the creation of mapping information for mapping the SalesBridge metadata to the Seller s database.

4. It also identifies mapping necessary but not possible so that it may be remedied via additional tables created in the Seller s and or SalesBridge environment.

5. It also facilitates identification of metadata mapping that is to be supported by programmatically creating mapping code components.

Mapping is used for example for all the following types of information handled by the SalesBridge software 

While SalesBridge enables the Seller to execute sales inventory and other related activities it is desirable to facilitate the collection processing and archival of such information over time in a Data Warehouse. The SalesBridge software via its MapTool makes it possible to not only map sales inventory and other related information into a Data Warehouse but also makes it possible to populate such a Data Warehouse with relevant information at run time. This enables the SalesBridge software to act as an interface to the Data Warehouse for other systems on an Integrated Channel System or an MSIS system.

Additionally the SalesBridge software can be installed with its own Data Warehouse so as to provide warehousing services to the Seller.

Data Mining is supported by SalesBridge by providing an ad hoc querying interface to a Data Warehouse that is populated. Such ad hoc querying interface makes it possible for other managers of information in the Integrated Channel system or at the Seller s environment to extract information to enhance their decision making capabilities. In addition third party decision support systems are provided an interface to interact with the Data Mining service.

The partners of an integrated channel can perform Data Mining transactions and retrieve configuration pricing different types of forecasts sales marketing and other related information from the Manufacturer s Data Warehouse using the Data Mining tool. The access to such information is coordinated by the Integrated Channel Service Manager. Such information may also be selectively cached by the Integrated Channel Service Manager. The same is true for access to archived information maintained by the manufacturer at the Data Warehouse. Similarly statistical information on products and sales may be maintained by the manufacturer which is then accessed by resellers distributors and retailers via the Integrated Channel Service Manager the SalesBridge software and the Data Mining Tool. Optionally a reseller or retailer can directly access such information from the manufacturer environment by interacting with the SalesBridge software in coordination with the Integrated Channel Service Manager.

The integration of a Data Warehouse and Data Mining tool that forms a part of a manufacturer s channel organization is achieved by a specifying interactions between these systems and the SalesBridge b identifying information exchange c specifying programming interfaces APIs and protocols for information exchange between these systems and the SalesBridge and d constructing transactional systems that support such interactions based on the protocols.

The interactions between the various systems are expressed as Use Cases and scenarios. The Use Cases also capture details of information exchange. Information exchange is typically expressed in terms of business objects such as Quotes Line Items Shopping Carts Prices Discounts Orders Contracts etc. that are exchanged between systems. The actual transfer of information is carried out in one of several ways a using XML based information structures for transfer of structured data between these systems and the SalesBridge software b exchanging references to objects that are saved or instantiated in a common data exchange layer that is accessible to all participating systems c providing a query interface on the Data warehouse and the Data Mining tool that is accessed by the SalesBridge software or d providing a set of application programming interfaces using programs written to enable the SalesBridge software to interact with the Data Warehouse and the Data Mining tool.

The SalesBridge software is used by the Integrated Channel Service Manager to execute Data Mining queries sent to the Seller s systems from the Integrated Channel Service Manager or from other resellers and retailers in the Channel. The Seller s systems of the manufacturers resellers distributors and retailers in response return the retrieved information if any back to the Integrated Channel Service Manager or to the Seller that sent the query. In general the SalesBridge software is used by the Integrated Channel Service Manager as a remote database layer that is capable of translating queries received from the Integrated Channel Service Manager into queries and processes that retrieve the requested information from the Data Mining tool or directly from the Data Warehouse.

The SalesBridge software is used to populate data into the Data Warehouse either directly or via a pipeline of processing software that massages the data before entering it into the Data Warehouse.

Although a system and method according to the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiment it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein but on the contrary it is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be reasonably included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by this disclosure and appended diagrams.

