---

title: Methods, systems, and products for locating file
abstract: Files are easily located based on addresses associated with calls. When a call is processed to, or received at, an address, the address may be used to query a database. The database stores associates between addresses and files stored in memory. All filenames related to the address may be displayed, thus allowing a user to quickly launch the files associated with a calling number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811583&OS=08811583&RS=08811583
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08811583
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120830
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 982 073 filed Nov. 1 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 280 019 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 979 464 filed Nov. 2 2004 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 333 597 which is itself a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 109 976 filed Mar. 29 2002 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 873 692.

This invention relates to a method and system for linking incoming telephone calls with computer application programs and documents related to the incoming telephone call through a computer telephony interface.

Computer users often have a variety of saved documents such as word processing documents spreadsheet documents database documents presentation documents and the like associated with their work education and leisure. For example a business person may have a variety of letters spreadsheets and database files associated with various projects in which the business person is engaged. A student may have homework assignments reading assignments or research stored as word processing documents. A home computer user may have their calendar or social reading stored on their home computer. Often the various computer generated and stored files maintained by the business person student or leisure computer user are related to projects events and work assignments associated with other persons with which the business person student or leisure computer user is working or is otherwise engaged. For example a business person may have a spreadsheet document saved on her office computer that contains accounting data for a work related project on which she is working with another employee of the business.

Often when the computer user receives a telephone call from a person with whom she is engaged in a project for which she has saved a file on her computer she must ask the calling party to hold while she locates the saved file and launches the file on her computer so that she may discuss the contents of the file with the calling party.

This process is time consuming and cumbersome because the computer user often must search through a number of stored files to find the appropriate file. If it has been a considerable amount of time since the computer user last processed the file in question the file may be even more difficult to locate. If the calling party is the computer user s supervisor or if the calling party is in a rush the time required to locate and launch the appropriate file is even more bothersome.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for a method and system for relating an incoming telephone call with computer stored files related to the calling party so that those files may be quickly and easily accessed by the called party. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

In accordance with the present invention the above and other problems are solved by a method and system for locating and retrieving stored computer files that are related to an incoming telephone call directed to a computer user. According to the present invention a called party receives a telephone call while the called party is operating her computer. A computer telephony interface receives caller identification information on the calling party and uses that information to launch a software synchronization program for locating files stored on the called party s computer that are related to the calling party. A dialog box is displayed on the screen of the called party s computer that provides the caller identification on the calling party and provides an icon for displaying a list of stored files related to the incoming caller. The list of files may be automatically presented to the called party or the called party may retrieve the list of stored files by selection of the icon presented in the dialog box. Selection of one of the stored files by the called party causes an instance of an application program such as a word processing program responsible for creation and storage of the selected file to be launched for displaying the selected file.

These and other features and advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The following description of an embodiment of the present invention is made with reference to the above described drawings wherein like numerals refer to like parts or components through the several figures. The present invention is directed to a method and system for locating and retrieving stored computer files that are related to an incoming telephone call directed to a computer user.

The public switched telephone network that evolved in the 1980s also incorporated the advanced intelligent network AIN . Some of the components of the advanced intelligent network are illustrated in . The advanced intelligent network AIN uses the signaling system 7 SS7 network for signal or system control message transport. The components thereof are well known to those skilled in the art. The operation of many of the components of the advanced intelligent network is also described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 245 719 to Weisser entitled Mediation of Open Advanced Intelligent Network Interface by Shared Execution Environment which is incorporated herein by reference. The SS7 communications protocol is provided in the document entitled Bell Communications Research Specification of Signaling System 7 Document TR NWT 000246 Issue 2 June 1991 plus Revision 1 December 1991 which is also incorporated herein by reference.

Referring still to a plurality of central offices is provided in a typical public switched telephone network. Each central office may include an electronic switch known to those skilled in the art as a service switching point SSP . These are indicated in as SSP switches and . The number of SSP switches depends on the number of subscribers to be served by the public switched telephone network. An SSP is the AIN component of a typical electronic central office switch used by a local exchange carrier. The terms SSP and switch are used interchangeably hereinafter and are understood to refer to a telecommunications switch having AIN capability and which may be utilized for connecting voice channel circuits including voice channel lines such as trunk circuits and .

Central offices switches SSP and have a plurality of subscriber lines and connected thereto. Each of the subscriber lines and is connected to a terminating piece or pieces of customer premises equipment that are represented by telephone sets and . SSP switches and are connected by a plurality of trunk circuits indicated as and in . These are the voice path trunks that interconnect the central offices and and over which calls are connected when completed.

Each piece of terminating equipment in the PSTN is preferably assigned a directory number. The term directory number is used herein in a manner consistent with its generally understood meaning of a number that is dialed or input by an originating party at an originating station to reach a terminating station associated with the directory number. A directory number typically a ten digit number is commonly referred to as a telephone number and may be assigned to a specific telephone line such as the telephone line shown in .

Much of the intelligence and the basis for many of the enhanced features of the network resides in the local service control point SCP that is connected to signal transfer point via SS7 data link . As is known to those skilled in the art service control points such as SCP are physically implemented by relatively powerful fault tolerant computers. Among the functions performed by the service control points is maintenance of network databases used in providing enhanced services. The SCP is also connected to a caller ID with name CNAM database . The CNAM database comprises a plurality of directory numbers along with associated names for the directory numbers. The CNAM database may be used to provide a look up database to provide caller identification ID service.

In operation the intelligent network elements of the telecommunications network as described above communicate with each other via digital data messages transmitted over the network of digital data links. An SSP may be configured to interface with these network elements through the use of a trigger. A trigger in the network is an event associated with a particular subscriber line or call that causes the SSP to generate a data packet message to be sent to a service control point. In order to keep the processing of data and calls as simple and generic as possible at central office switches such as SSP central office switches and a relatively small set of triggers are defined at the SSP central office switches for each call.

The message created by an SSP in response to a trigger is known as a query message. A query message opens a transaction and the SSP generally holds the communication until it receives a reply from an appropriate network element via the network of digital data links instructing the SSP to take a certain action. If the SSP receives no instructions within a certain amount of time the SSP times out and executes a default task for the communication. The reply to the query message may be a conversation message or a response message. Conversation messages allow for bi directional exchanges between network elements while the transaction remains open. A response message closes the transaction opened by the query message and usually instructs the SSP to route the held communication for connection with a terminating station. Query messages conversation messages and response messages are standard types of messages defined by the AIN protocol. The details of the AIN protocol are known to those skilled in the art and will not be further described herein. For more information regarding the AIN protocol see Bellcore Specification GR 1298 CORE Switching Systems Generic Requirements for AIN 0.1 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The modern Advanced Intelligent Network also includes service nodes SN such as service node shown in . Those skilled in the art are familiar with service nodes which are physically implemented by the same types of computers that embody the SCP . In addition to the computing capability and data base maintenance features service nodes use ISDN lines and may include DTMF signal recognition devices tone generation devices text to speech TTS voice synthesis devices and other voice or data resources. As shown in the connection is through the SSP. For example SN is connected to SCP via ISDN links to SSP ISDN SS7 protocol conversion in SSP and SS7 links and . It is understood that the service node may also be connected to a service management system but such connection is not shown in . Service nodes are used principally when some custom feature or service is needed that requires an audio connection to the call or transfer of a significant amount of data to a subscriber over a switched connection during or following a call.

The computer illustrated in represents any well known computing device capable of processing information that may be stored and subsequently retrieved by the computer user. The computer may be operated on the same subscriber line as the telephone of the computer user such as often the case in a home computing or small business computing environment. The subscriber line connected to the computer may be a standard analog subscriber line or may include other lines for transmitting data to and from the computer such as a digital subscriber line or T1 line. Alternatively the computer may be part of a distributed computing environment in a large business or educational institution where data is transmitted to and from the computer in accordance with the present invention from a telecommunications network that is connected to the distributed computing environment or network in which the computer resides. Likewise data and files saved on the computer may be saved on and retrieved from a remote memory server connected to the computer via a distributed computing environment.

Referring now to in accordance with the present invention incoming calls directed to the operator of a telephone and computer are received at the telephone along with caller identification information obtained on the calling party. As should be understood by those skilled in the art when the calling party initiates a telephone call to the called party from the calling party s telephone an intelligent network component such as the service control point obtains caller identification information such as the caller s name telephone and address from the CNAM database for presentation to the called party at the called party s telephone . Operation of caller identification systems is well known to those skilled in the art.

A computer telephony interface serves as an interface between the called party s telephone and the called party s computer . Computer telephone integration as facilitated by the computer telephony interface CTI is a process for integration of a telephone system with a computing system. For example the CTI may be used for allowing computer applications to answer incoming calls provide database information on a computer screen at the same time the call comes in automatically route and reroute calls automatically dial and speed dial outgoing calls from a computer resident database and identify incoming customer calls and transfer them to predetermined destinations based on caller identification received on the incoming telephone call. According to the present invention the CTI serves as an interface between the called party s telephone and the called party s computer for linking computer files saved on the called party s computer to the incoming telephone call based on caller identification information received on the incoming telephone call.

The computer telephony interface may be a software application program resident on the called party telephone for passing information such as the caller identification information on a calling party to the called party computer . Alternatively the computer telephony interface may also include a software application program resident on the called party computer for receiving and acting upon information received from the called party telephone such as the caller identification information on a calling party.

The software synchronization program is a computer software application according to the present invention resident on the called party computer for linking stored computer files to caller identification information received through the CTI on an incoming telephone call. The software synchronization program may include an application programming interface API which as is known to those skilled in the art is a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures by the computer s operating system. In accordance with the present invention the procedures performed by the program include searching for the file paths to stored computer files that are associated with an incoming telephone call based on caller identification information for the incoming telephone call. Additionally the software synchronization program launches a dialog box discussed with reference to for providing the called party access to all stored computer files related to the incoming call. Accordingly the software synchronization program serves as an intermediary application between the CTI and stored computer files related to an incoming telephone call.

The application program is illustrative of any software application program for creating and storing files in accordance with the present invention. For example the application program may be a word processing program a spreadsheet program a database program a desktop publishing program and the like. The application program is limited only by the numbers and types of software application programs loaded and operated on the called party s computer for creating storing and operating on computer files.

The memory is illustrative of memory containing stored computer documents that may be accessed retrieved and displayed in accordance with the present invention. For example the documents may include word processing documents spreadsheet documents database documents and the like. The memory may be resident on the computer or may be resident on a remote storage device such as a remote memory server that may be accessed by the computer via a distributed computing environment.

In order for the software synchronization program to locate stored computer files for presentation to the called party in accordance with the present invention the stored files must include information that allows the software synchronization program to locate those files in relation to caller identification information received on an incoming telephone call. The document management system is illustrative of a software program or application programming interface for collecting information related to a given computer file and linking that information to the computer file for subsequent searching and retrieval of the file based on that collected information. For example in accordance with a variety of well known document management systems when a user of the computer saves any computer file the computer user is presented with a dialog box that requires the input of certain identification information for the file before the file is saved. For example upon selection of the save functionality of the application program such as a word processing program the user of the computer may be presented with a dialog box that requests such information as a name for the file to be saved a name or title associated with the file or other information that may be used to locate the file during a subsequent search.

In accordance with the present invention the document management system in conjunction with the application program allows the user to save information including the name of a party related to the stored file the telephone number of a party associated with the stored file the address of a party associated with the stored file or any other pertinent personal or related information. For example if the user has prepared a spreadsheet of accounting data for a project on which she is working with a fellow employee when the user saves the spreadsheet file with the software application program the document management allows the computer user to store the name of the fellow employee the fellow employee s telephone number the fellow employee s address and any other information such as the employee s job title wireless telephone number and the like.

According to the present invention when an incoming telephone call is received by the called party on the called party s telephone caller identification information received on the calling party as described above is used by the software synchronization program to search for computer files based on the caller identification information so received. That is the software synchronization program searches on caller identification information such as the caller s name telephone number and address. Based on the search of the memory by the software synchronization program all computer files and with stored identification information matching caller identification information received on the calling party allows the software synchronization program to flag those files for presentation to the called party in response to the incoming telephone call.

Referring now to a graphical user interface for presentation of caller identification information on an incoming call and for providing the called party access to computer files related to the incoming call is illustrated. When an incoming telephone call is received and information on that call such as caller identification information is passed to the called party s computer via the CTI the software synchronization program launches the graphical user interface on the display screen of the computer . The caller identification information including any information included in the caller identification data such as the telephone number address e mail address work address etc. for the incoming telephone call is displayed. Prior to launching the user interface dialog box the software synchronization program searches for all files associated with the incoming call as described above with reference to .

Once the software synchronization program establishes a file path to each of the stored files related to the incoming call the dialog box is displayed to the called party so that the called party may access the related files. An icon is illustrated in for presentation of all files related to the incoming telephone call located by the software synchronization program as described above. Selection of the icon launches a display box that displays each of the related files. As shown in a letter document a spreadsheet document a presentation document and a database document are illustrated as documents located and presented to the called party as related to the incoming telephone call. Alternatively the display box may be presented to the called party automatically without selection of the icon . As should be understood by those skilled in the art the presentation of the files may be done according to a number of display protocols such as alphabetical ordering or ordering based on the date of document modification.

Referring now to the following is a description of an exemplary operation of an embodiment of the present invention with reference to . illustrates a logical call flow of steps performed by a method and system of the present invention for linking and retrieving stored computer files related to an incoming telephone call.

The method begins at start step and proceeds to step where a calling party places a telephone call from the calling party s telephone to the called party at the called party s telephone . At step a query is generated from the central office SSP of the calling party to the service control point for obtaining caller identification information on the calling party from the CNAM database .

At step the telephone call from the calling party along with the caller identification information retrieved from the CNAM database is routed to the called party at the called party s telephone through the called party s central office SSP in accordance with standard call routing procedures. According to the present invention the computer telephony interface recognizes the caller identification information and routes the caller identification information to the software synchronization program resident on the called party s computer .

At step in response to receipt of the caller identification information on the incoming call the CTI launches the software synchronization program for searching and retrieving stored computer files related to the incoming telephone call. At step the software synchronization program searches the memory of the computer for computer files related to the incoming telephone call based on the caller identification information associated with the incoming telephone call. As described above with reference to the software synchronization program locates related computer files based on previously input information related to the incoming telephone call such as the caller s name telephone number or address. Once the software synchronization program locates all computer files related to the incoming telephone call the dialog box is launched on the display screen of the computer at step . As shown in according to a preferred embodiment caller identification information for the incoming telephone call is presented in the dialog box to the user of the computer .

At step based on the files located by the software synchronization program the icon is enabled and is displayed to the user of the computer in the dialog box . As described above selection of the icon causes the display box to be presented to the user of the computer for presentation of a list of all files located by the software synchronization program that are related to the incoming telephone call based on the caller identification information for the incoming telephone call. Alternatively as described above the display box may be presented to the user of the computer automatically without selection of the icon .

At step the called party may view the list of documents found by the software synchronization program and select a document that the called party determines is most likely the document the calling party is calling to discuss. Or the calling party may wait until the calling party tells the called party the precise document the calling party would like to discuss. For example if the calling party recognizes from the caller identification information that the calling party is a co worker with whom the called party has very recently constructed the spreadsheet document displayed in the display box the called party may select the spreadsheet document at step .

At step selection of the stored computer file such as the spreadsheet document launches an instance of the application program responsible for creation and storage of the selected file and the selected file such as the spreadsheet document is displayed to the called party on the computer screen of the called party s computer . Advantageously the called party quickly and efficiently locates and launches the selected computer file related to the incoming call without having to place the caller on hold or cause the caller to wait while the called party searches for a selected file through a large list of stored files on the called party s computer .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

