---

title: Aural cuing pattern based mobile device security
abstract: When visual focus on a mobile device is limited, aural cues can be used to aid in entering a pattern based access code. The mobile device displays a plurality of positions from which an access code for accessing a mobile device can be selected. Indications of a set of positions of the plurality of positions in a sequence are received. The sequence of the set of the positions form an access code. For at least the first of the set of positions, an aural cue associated with the first position is determined, and the aural cue is emitted to indicate the first position based on the aural cue. It is determined whether the access code is correct. Access to the mobile device is allowed if the access code is correct.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430633&OS=09430633&RS=09430633
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09430633
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120712
---
Embodiments of the inventive subject matter generally relate to the field of mobile devices and more particularly to aural feedback pattern based security access mechanisms for mobile devices.

Conventional security mechanisms for mobile devices include passwords or personal identification numbers PINs . A user enters his her password via a mechanical keypad or a touchscreen keypad.

Embodiments of the inventive subject matter include a computer program product for aural cuing for a pattern based security mechanism of a mobile device. The computer program product comprises a computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therewith. The computer usable program code comprises a computer usable program code configured to display a plurality of positions from which an access code for accessing a mobile device can be selected. The computer usable program code is configured to receive indications of a set of positions of the plurality of positions in a sequence. The sequence of the set of the positions forms an access code. The computer usable program code is configured to determine for at least the first of the set of positions an aural cue associated with the first position and to emit the aural cue to indicate the first position based on the aural cue. The computer usable program code is configured to determine whether the access code is correct. The computer usable program code is configured to allow access to the mobile device if the access code is correct.

The description that follows includes exemplary systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computer program products that embody techniques of the present inventive subject matter. However it is understood that the described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obfuscate the description.

Pattern based security mechanisms have been suggested to obfuscate passwords or PINs and hinder observation of a password or PIN. The obfuscation techniques involve heightened visual attention. A music based security mechanism has been suggested as a replacement for conventional passwords and PINs. The complexity of the music based security mechanism e.g. advancing through multiple screens limits utility in environments that limit visual focus on a mobile device. Securing a mobile device with a pattern paired with aural cues aural cuing pattern security mechanism reduces demand for visual attention without being hindered by complexity. For instance daylight may wash out a display of a mobile device in a low power mode. A user may need to access his her mobile device without diverting visual attention from another objection or situation. In addition the aural cuing pattern security mechanism alleviates the challenges of securing mobile devices for populations with impaired vision while preserving security integrity.

A security module of a mobile device can be configured programmed to allow a user to set a sequence of positions i.e. pattern and aural cues for the positions to unlock the mobile device. In response to an unlock action the mobile device displays multiple positions e.g. grid of positions each of which are associated with an aural cue. The aural feedback can be a single tone multiple tones an audio clip a repeating tone etc. Embodiments can associate every position with a different aural cue associate all positions with a different number of the same tone associate some of the positions with a same aural cue etc. But all positions are not associated with the same number of a same aural cue. If the mobile device receives a correct pattern then the mobile device unlocks. Based on the aural feedback of at least the starting first position the user who is glancing at the mobile device or who cannot visually perceive the mobile device well knows whether the starting position of the unlock pattern is correct.

Although the example of associated an aural cue with each position embodiments are not so limited. Embodiments can provide distinct aural cues based on dimensions of positions instead of individual positions. depicts an example mobile phone presenting a grid of positions and aural cues based on dimensions of positions. Similar to a mobile phone of presents a 3 3 grid of positions for accessing the mobile phone . For this illustration presume that the position 1 3 is the first position of the access pattern. At a stage A a user selects a position 1 1 first column first row. The mobile phone emits an aural cue associated with the first dimension. In other words the aural cue indicates that the first column has been selected. The user then moves his her finger to position 1 3 first column third row. In a stage B the mobile phone emits an aural cue indicating the second dimension of the first position. In other words the second aural cue indicates that the third row has been selected. Based on the two aural cues the user realizes that the he she has selected the position in the third row of the first column.

After receiving input it is determined whether the input is a request to submit an input code at block . If the input is a submit request then control flows to block . Otherwise control flows to block .

At block it is determined if the input is a clear command. If so then control flows to block . If not then control flows to block .

At block a data structure INPUT CODE which temporarily hosts any input positions is reset. This example suggests that the data structure is an array. Embodiments can use any of a variety of data structures to host inputs as appropriate for the type of inputs. In addition N is reset to 0. Also in block aural cues marked as unavailable are released or unmarked. The marking of cues as unavailable is explained in block .

At block it is determined whether the input is a request to exit the configuration interface. If so then the configuration interface is exited at block . Otherwise the input is a selected position and control flows to block .

If the input is a selected position then the input is stored into INPUT CODE N at block . The position may be indicated with a single value multiple value coordinates etc. Embodiments may encode the position instead of storing the position input. For example a security module may generate a hash of the value s that indicates the position and store the hash value.

At block available aural cues are presented for association with the position in response to input or selection of the position. The aural cues can be audio clips loaded on the mobile device audio clips recorded by a user clips from songs tones etc. In this example available aural cues are those that have not yet been assigned to a position. Different constraints can be configured for associating aural cues. For example the security module may be configured to allow a same aural cue to be assigned to a position that is not part of an access code and the last position of an access code. Another example constraint overlap of aural cues in non access code positions to 2.

After an aural cue AURAL CUE is selected from the available aural cues the aural cue is associated with the position at block in response to the selection of the aural cue. For example the aural cue can be literally or referentially stored as a member of an object as depicted in block POSITION.AURAL AURAL CUE . The indexing variable N is incremented. Embodiments can also integrate the aural cue into the security access code. For example an aural cue for a position may be a tone. A user cart configure the security module to require a position and a number of taps particular rhythm degree of pressure etc. at the position. So an access code can comprise a sequence of positions as well as a configured number of taps at each position. The mobile device emits the aural cue after each tap. Embodiments can vary the aural cue to correspond to the other facet of security e.g. increasing pace of playing the aural cue as pressure is increased . A facet of security can be considered a secondary security input or different type of input at the position to be encoded or used as a component of an access code.

At block the selected aural cue is marked as unavailable Embodiments can use a tracking structure to mark aural cues as unavailable. Embodiments can remove cues from a pool of cues available for association with a position. Unavailable cues can also be aural cues designated as undesirable or low utility. For example a user may designate aural cues as unavailable based on past experience of not recognizing the aural cue or not being able to distinguish the aural cue from ambient sounds. Default configurations perhaps based on testing may flag or designate aural cues as unavailable for access due to security or safety concerns.

Each subsequent position is stored along with associated cues. Once a submit request is input the input code INPUT CODE is submitted for validation. The security module validates the INPUT CODE against constraints e.g. minimum length . If the INPUT CODE is valid then control flows to block . If it is not then control flows to block .

At block INPUT CODE is stored as the access code for the mobile device Embodiments may encode INPUT CODE e.g. hash the INPUT CODE .

At block remaining available aural cues are randomly assigned to positions that do not constitute the access code. Embodiments are not limited to randomly assigning the available aural cues. Aural cues can be assigned in a linear manner e.g. as listed in memory . Aural cues can also be assigned based on configuration. For instance the security module can be configured to assign aural cues based on characteristics of the unavailable cues and those associated with positions of the access code pattern. For example the security module may assign aural cues with similar characteristics as those already assigned based on proximity of the corresponding positions. For instance a non access code position adjacent to an access code position would be assigned an aural cue with significantly different characteristics e.g. pitch volume speed etc. than the aural cue associated with the access code position. Embodiments can also allow the user to associate aural cues with every position whether part of the access code or not.

At block a plurality of positions is presented. For example an image map or grid of positions is presented on a display of the mobile device.

After an input is received it is determined whether the input is a submit request. If the input is a submit request then control flows to block . Otherwise control flows to block .

At block it is determined whether the input is a clear request. If the input is a clear request then control flows to block . If not then control flows to block because the input is a position input i.e. selection of one of the plurality of positions .

At block the INPUT CODE structure is reset e.g. entries are set to null . And the indexing variable N is reset to 0.

At block an aural cue associated with the input position is determined. For example a security module resolves a reference to the aural cue or looks up the aural cue in a structure indexed by an indication of the position.

At block it is determined whether the position is confirmed. For example a position can be confirmed if a user maintains selection of the position beyond a threshold period of time. Position can also be confirmed with a tap or given number of taps. Position can also be implicitly confirmed with selection of a next position without an intervening reset action. If the position is not confirmed then control flows to block where the input is discarded. If the position is confirmed then control flows to block .

At block the input position or a representation of the input position is stored INPUT CODE N INPUT . In addition the indexing variable N is incremented. Embodiments are not limited to using a structured index and an indexing variable. Any of a number of data structures can be implemented to store input and the access code.

When a user request submission of an input code at block then the INPUT CODE contents are compared against the stored access code. Embodiments may encode the contents before comparing. Embodiments may encode input as added to the INPUT CODE structured.

At block it is determined whether the input code is correct. If it is correct then the device is unlocked at block . If the input code is not correct then an invalid code message is presented at block .

Embodiments can also provide aural cuing at a greater granularity. Instead of indicating a position alone aural cues can be manipulated to indicate degree of precision of input selection. A user can configure a security module to increase volume of an aural cue in a center area of a position and decrease volume as a selection implement e.g. finger stylus etc. moves away from the center or center area and towards an edge of the position. Another aural cue can be configured to indicate transition into another area of a different position or into a neutral area that is not associated with any specific position. Other configurations to cue precision of a position selection include varying number of repetitions speed of replay etc. The precision cues can guide a user to realign their selection implement with minimal to no visual feedback and avoid entering an entire sequence of incorrect positions. Embodiments can are not limited to using aural cues for indication of position precision. A security module can be configured to provide haptic cues in addition to or instead of the aural precision cues. For example a mobile device can be configured via the security module to provide a greater intensity haptic cue in a center area of a position along with the aural cue that indicates the position.

It should be understood that the depicted flowcharts are provided to aid in understanding embodiments and are not limiting upon the scope of the claims. Embodiments can perform additional operations different operations fewer operations operations in parallel etc. With reference to additional operations can be performed to associate multiple cues with a position that constitutes an access code. Different aural cues can be associated based on whether the position is being selected in the proper sequence of the access pattern. If different cues are used for a same position based on whether selected in the correct sequence then embodiments can perform operations to track state of an access code position in order to determine which cue to emit. Additional operations can also be performed to allow a user to configure a security module to emit an aural cue a number of times while a position is held. For example the aural cue for position 2 2 will repeat twice with a 2 second gap while the position selection is maintained e.g. while a finger remains on that position . With reference to additional operations can be performed to look up other cues whether aural or non aural depending upon other security facets e.g. pressure taps etc. and conditions.

The security module accesses the icons and the audio files in accordance with configurations. The security module associates selected ones of the audio files with positions that are presented for unlocking the mobile device . The security module also maps or associates selected ones of the icons to positions presented for accessing the mobile device . The security module interacts e.g. invokes via an application programming interface with the touchscreen driver to present a configuration interface and to present selectable positions for accessing the mobile device . The security module also interacts with the speaker driver to emit aural cues during configuration and when a user attempts to access the mobile device .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present inventive subject matter may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present inventive subject matter may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present inventive subject matter may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present inventive subject matter may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present inventive subject matter are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

While the embodiments are described with reference to various implementations and exploitations it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the inventive subject matter is not limited to them. In general techniques for providing aural cues to positions selected to access a mobile device as described herein may be implemented with facilities consistent with any hardware system or hardware systems. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible.

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter. In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the inventive subject matter.

