---

title: Messaging interface based on caller of an incoming call
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes displaying by a mobile computing device of a first user a notification of an incoming call. The notification identifies a second user associated with a source of the incoming call. The method further includes detecting by the mobile computing device user input provided during the display of the notification of the incoming call. In response to the user input, one or more previous communications between the first and second users is determined by the mobile computing device. The method further includes displaying by the mobile computing device the one or more previous communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055421&OS=09055421&RS=09055421
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09055421
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120810
---
Individuals may communicate with each other using a variety of methods including voice calls video calls email text messaging chatting social networking messages and other communication methods. A communication participant may select a method of communication based on a myriad of factors such as the cost of the communication method the location or environment of one or more of the communication participants the speed of the communication method or other factors.

In particular embodiments a method includes displaying by a mobile computing device of a first user a notification of an incoming call. The notification may identify a second user associated with a source of the incoming call. The mobile computing device may detect user input provided during the display of the notification of the incoming call. In response to the user input the mobile computing device may determine one or more previous communications between the first and second users and display the one or more previous communications.

Modern computer systems are able to communicate in a variety of ways. For example a device may be capable of communication using voice calls video calls emails text messaging social media websites and other communication methods. Such functionality may allow a user of the device to choose which type of communication to use in a communication session with another user. In certain situations a certain type of communication may be preferable to other types of communication. For example a user may select a communication type based on the cost speed or ease of use of the particular type of communication.

In certain situations a user may receive a notification of an incoming call but may prefer to communicate with the caller using a different communication method. For example the user may be in a location that is not conducive to communication via a call such as a library or an area with poor signal reception. As another example a user may have exhausted an allotment of minutes of a cellular phone plan. As yet another example a user may not feel like talking on the phone. Particular embodiments of the present disclosure allow the user to enter user input to transition from a call notification interface to a messaging interface. The messaging interface may provide an option to send a message such as a text message or email to the caller in lieu of answering the call.

In some situations a user may want to view previous communications with the caller before answering the call or communicating with the caller via a different communication type. In various embodiments the messaging interface displays a conversation between the caller and the callee. The conversation may include previous communications between the caller and the callee. In particular embodiments the communication view includes an aggregation of different communication types. The embodiments described above provide context for an incoming call and facilitate use of a preferred type of communication.

Third party websites may include but are not limited to social networking websites shopping sites review sites such as Yelp or any third party website with which a user maintains an account to interact with content or other users. Third party IM service may include but is not limited to Google Chat or a similar service allowing users to send instant messages to each other. Third party social media site may include but is not limited to Twitter LinkedIn Google Plus or other social media site. VoIP service may include but is not limited to Skype or a similar service that offers voice calls over IP. Video service may include but is not limited to FaceTime Tango or other similar service that offers video calls. Other services may include e mail servers storage facilities or other third party services that may communicate with social networking system or clients through network .

A client device may interact with the third party services through a web browser or a dedicated application local to the client device . For example a client devices may interact with third party instant messaging service such as Google Chat by logging into a user s Gmail account via a web browser or by installing and running a dedicated Google Talk application. Similarly a client device may interact with a third party social media site such as Twitter via a browser or through a dedicated Twitter application. Client devices may similarly communicate with third party websites VoIP service video service and other third party services .

A user of a client device interacts with the social networking system via an application such as a web browser or a dedicated application of client device to perform operations such as browsing content posting and sending communications retrieving and sorting communications received from other users and the like. Communications may be in any suitable format such as electronic mail e mail messages chat messages comments left on a user s webpage and short message service SMS text messages. Messages may contain text or other content such as pictures videos sounds and attachments. Each user has a mailbox that includes communications that are both sent and received by the user.

Client device may also interact with other client devices through wireless network or network . For example client device may participate in VoIP or non VoIP calls with other cellular phones computers landlines or other communication devices transmit and receive texts or multi media message through the SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS channels or receive push notifications through the SMS control channel.

Third party services may interact with social networking system via an application programming interface API . For example a third party website may perform operations supported by the API such as delivering user communications to the social network system retrieving user communications stored by the social networking system and obtaining social information about users of the social networking system .

Social networking system enables users to interact with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile for each user. The user profile may include a user s contact information background information employment information demographic information personal interests or other suitable information. Each user profile may be stored as an object in object store . The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system . In particular embodiments this information may be stored as a social graph in graph information store . In the social graph individuals groups entities or organizations may be represented as nodes in the graph and the nodes may be connected by edges that represent one or more specific types of interdependency. Social networking system may also provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system . The social networking system may transmit content and communications related to its services to a user s client device over network .

Mailbox module of social networking system provides functionality for powering the messaging system of social networking system . In a particular embodiment the mailbox module receives organizes and presents communications to or from users in the social networking system via an interactive user interface. The interactive user interface may be for example a webpage that is viewed by a user with a web browser or a dedicated application residing on the user s computing device . In particular embodiments the interactive user interface may be a combination of server and client side rendering depending on processing and bandwidth capacity. Functionality provided by mailbox module may include organizing communications into conversations quick reply categorizing conversations conversation states conversation searching new message notification formatting of e mails forwarding communications between conversations and invitation based conversion among others. In particular embodiments communications occurring outside of the social networking system are aggregated with communications occurring through the social networking system by mailbox module at any suitable time such as when a client device performs an aggregation operation. In particular embodiments communications requiring interaction with third party services are pulled automatically through one or more APIs and stored at mailbox module . In particular embodiments a mixture of client push and server pulls are used to aggregate communications from various sources at mailbox module . In particular embodiments a local application on a client device performs one or more of the operations of mailbox module and pulls communications from social network and third party services to client device .

Network may include one or more interconnected networks over which various systems and hosts described herein may communicate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet a private network an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless network a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a packet based wide area network a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a satellite network a paging network or a combination of two or more of these.

Wireless cellular network may include one or more interconnected networks over which various systems and hosts described herein may communicate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable wireless cellular network . For example wireless cellular network may include one or more base stations that communicate wirelessly with one or more client devices . Wireless cellular network may facilitate communication between client devices network and other components coupled to network .

The call notification interface may display an indication to the callee that an incoming call is being received. For example in the embodiment depicted the indication includes an answer call button that indicates that an incoming call is present and may be answered by pressing or otherwise selecting the button. As another example the call notification interface may also display any suitable information identifying the caller. By way of example and not limitation the caller identification information may include the name of the caller the phone number of the caller a location associated with the caller such as a work or home address or social context information describing social information that has been updated recently with respect to the time of the call such as an activity that the caller is engaged in the current location of the caller or one or more individuals that the caller is with. In the embodiment depicted the caller identification information includes a photo of the caller a name of the caller and social context information indicating that the caller is at a particular business with a particular person. In particular embodiments the caller identification information is obtained by performing a reverse lookup based on information that identifies the source of the incoming call such as the telephone number or network address of the caller. In particular embodiments the telephone number network address or other identifying information may enable identification of a user profile of the caller that includes the caller identification information. The identified user profile may be a user profile stored by social networking system a subset of the user profile stored by social networking system or a set of information about the user that is separate from the user profile stored by social networking system . The user profile may be stored locally by device or may be stored by one or more network devices such as object store that transmit the caller identification information to device upon reception of a request from device . For example upon reception of an call device may transmit a telephone number network address or a profile identifier of the caller if device is able to ascertain the profile identifier locally to social networking system and receive the user profile in return.

In particular embodiments call notification interface provides instructions that specify how a transition to a messaging interface may be performed. For example the instructions may indicate particular user input that may be entered to transition to the messaging interface. This is illustrated in where instructions direct the user to perform an upward swipe to message the caller. As another example a transition button may be displayed along with instructions that indicate that pressing or otherwise selecting the button will result in a transition to the messaging interface. In other embodiments the instructions are omitted. In a particular embodiment the instructions are provided for a predetermined number of calls to instruct the user how to access the messaging interface and then may be omitted for future incoming calls.

Upon the detection of appropriate user input by device a messaging interface is displayed. Any suitable user input may result in the transition from the call notification interface to the messaging interface. For example if device includes a touch screen any suitable gesture may be used to effectuate the transition to the messaging interface. Such gestures may include moving an object such as a finger or stylus along the screen in a particular pattern swiping the touch screen e.g. touching the screen with an object and quickly moving the object in a particular direction while maintaining contact with the screen or contacting a particular area of the screen with an object one or more times. User input may also include the pressing of a mechanical button such as a key of a keypad or a button of a mouse.

In particular embodiments the user input that causes the transition to messaging interface may also cause the incoming call to be rejected e.g. the caller may be sent to voicemail or a busy signal may be played . In other embodiments the user input does not cause the incoming call to be rejected. In such embodiments messaging interface may also display a notification of the incoming call. The notification may include any suitable indication of the incoming call such as any indication described above with respect to call notification interface . In particular embodiments the notification of the incoming call displayed by messaging interface is less prominent than the notification of the incoming call displayed by call notification interface . In various embodiments the callee may interact with a portion of the notification to answer or reject the incoming call. For example in the embodiment depicted messaging interface includes incoming call notification icon that may be touched or otherwise selected to cause device to answer the incoming call.

Messaging interface displays conversation comprising communications between the callee and the caller. At least some of these communications may have occurred prior to the incoming call. Communications may be any suitable type of communications. For example a communication may be an SMS or MMS message a call e.g. a phone call VoIP session a video call a voicemail a push to talk PTT message an email an instant message a tweet a chat a social network message including a post on a wall of a social network website or a message sent via a social network website or other communication between the caller and the callee. A communication may include text exchanged during the communication e.g. the actual text of the communication or a voice transcription of the communication or any suitable information regarding the communication such as the time or duration of the communication whether the communication was an outgoing incoming or missed communication or other suitable information.

A conversation may include various types of communications aggregated into a single communication thread. For example if a user named Adam sends an instant message to a user named Bob and also separately sends an e mail to Bob both of these messages may be placed into the same conversation . Similarly if Bob leaves Adam a voicemail an indicator of the voicemail such as the date and time it was left or transcribed text from the voicemail may be placed into the conversation . As another example if Adam calls Bob the log of the call may also be placed in the conversation .

In particular embodiments a conversation displays communications in the same format regardless of the types of the communications . For example in the embodiment depicted in the text of each communication appears in a conversation bubble. Thus each communication of conversation appears the same regardless of the type of the particular communication. In other embodiments the format of a particular communication is dependent on the type of the communication . For example in the embodiment depicted in each communication includes one or more icons depicting the type of communication or an attribute of the communication.

Conversation may display communications in any suitable order. For example communications may be ordered based on the time of the communications the types of the communications the importance of the communication or any other suitable factor. In particular embodiments communications of a particular type may be grouped together and the group including the most recent communication may be displayed first. In other embodiments a particular communication marked as important are displayed before the most recent communication . In some embodiments a subset of communications of a particular communication type are grouped together. For example emails having a common subject may be grouped together.

In particular embodiments the user of device may configure various aspects of messaging interface . For example the user may select which caller identification information should be displayed the format of the caller identification information the ordering of communications of conversation which communication types are displayed in the conversation or other suitable aspect of messaging interface

Communications between the caller and the callee may be identified by device in any suitable manner. The communications may be stored at any suitable location such as device social networking system a third party service or a combination of the preceding. An application local to device residing at a server hosted by social networking system or at another suitable network location may aggregate communications between the caller and the callee regardless of where the communications are stored. For example the communications may be located on device at social networking system or at a third party service. The aggregation of communications may occur at any suitable time. For example the aggregation may occur before the incoming call is received in response to the incoming call being received or in response to the user input that causes the transition to the messaging interface . In particular embodiments an existing conversation is updated at the time of the incoming call by aggregating additional communications with the conversation.

In particular embodiments the application may communicate with devices social networking system or third party services or to aggregate communications between the caller and callee into a conversation . For example the application may receive communications from the social networking system or the third party services and determine users that are participants in the communications . Accordingly when the application receives a request for a conversation between particular users e.g. a caller and a callee the application may identify communications in which the users are participants.

In particular embodiments social networking system may facilitate determination of the participants in a communication . Users of social networking system may be stored as objects in the social networking system . For example as described above object store may include a profile for each user that comprises a profile name an e mail address a profile picture and other identifying information. Particular communications may include identifying information that matches identifying information included in the profile of a user stored in object store . Accordingly one or more users of the social networking system that participated in the communication may be identified by accessing information stored by object store . For example an e mail from james.white yahoo.com can be identified from information in the object store as being an e mail from the user James White. As another example a video chat facilitated through third party video service may involve participants that each have a specific user ID. In particular embodiments this user ID is stored with the user profile in object store and used to identify the social network users that participated in the video chat.

A conversation including communications between the caller and callee may be obtained in any suitable manner. For example information identifying the caller and callee may be passed to the application that aggregates the various communications into conversations and the application may return the appropriate conversation between the caller and callee. Any suitable identifying information may be used to identify the caller and callee. For example the telephone number network address user profile identifier or other suitable identifying information may be used to identify the caller or callee.

Messaging interface also includes a message entry area that the callee may use to draft and transmit a communication to the caller. Message entry area may display a keyboard activate a speech recognition application or effectuate other text entry means in response to a touch or other selection from the callee. After text is entered via the keyboard through the speech recognition application or through other means the text may be transmitted to the caller via any suitable format. By way of example and not limitation the text may be transmitted according to a communication type described above. In particular embodiments the default communication type used to transmit the text is an SMS message but any other suitable type may be used such as an email or social network message. In a particular embodiment the communication type is based on a telephone number network address or other identifier associated with the incoming call. For example if the incoming call is associated with a mobile phone number the communication type may default to an SMS message whereas if the incoming call is associated with a home phone number then a different communication type such as an email may be used. In particular embodiments the communication type is selected based on the contact information available for the caller or the communication history between the caller and the callee. For example if the majority of communications between the caller and the callee are emails the text entered in message entry area may be sent via email. Message entry area may also include the option to attach a file to the communication such as a picture video document or other file.

Conversation can be updated in a real time manner as new communications are received or sent. Messaging interface may allow a user to scroll backwards in time or other order to view the entire history of communications in the conversation . In a particular embodiment some of the communications have attachments such as pictures videos documents or other files. The attachments can be shown in the messaging interface through a preview of the attachment instead of just a link to the attachment. For example an attached picture can be shown in the interface with a thumbnail of the picture.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . For example client devices social networking system third party services network and wireless cellular network may each include one or more computer systems or portions thereof. This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

