---

title: Parking resource management
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems for parking based route navigation and/or parking resource management are disclosed to facilitate navigation to parking spots associated with a destination and/or management of respective parking spots. Navigation may be provided to a parking spot based upon parking criteria (e.g., such as distance to a destination and/or costs associated with the parking spot). Additionally, navigation (e.g., instructions, alternate transport, such as public transit) from the parking spot to the destination may be provided. Parking spots may be reserved by a parking management system based upon reservations received through a parking based route navigation system. Travelers may be re-routed based upon parking factors (e.g., traffic around a parking location, parking density, etc.). Accordingly, travelers may be routed to a destination in a more efficient manner and/or a management system may price and/or allocate parking spots in a desired manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08791838&OS=08791838&RS=08791838
owner: INRIX, Inc.
number: 08791838
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
Within the field of computing route navigation may comprise receiving a destination and providing navigation instructions e.g. turn by turn directions thereto. For example an application may provide directions to a destination based upon a location of a traveler e.g. a current location for the traveler . Such an application may for example execute on a location aware device such as a smartphone equipped with a global positioning system GPS for example. A location aware device may also have access to mapping information and be capable of providing routing information for example. Devices such as this may also generate traffic information e.g. speeds of vehicles traveling along a particular span of roadway estimated time until arrival at a destination or infer traffic conditions for example.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form which are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques and or systems for providing navigation to one or more parking spots are disclosed such as to facilitate navigation to a venue where parking may not be available on site e.g. at the venue for example. Parking based route navigation may comprise for example receiving a destination and providing navigation from a first location e.g. a current location and or a user input location to a parking spot associated with the received destination. For example a traveler may be attending a sporting event e.g. a professional football game where parking is generally unavailable and or undesirable on site at least because of cost of parking availability and or crowds. To this end a traveler may be provided with directions to a parking spot near e.g. associated with and or within a reasonable distance from the football stadium based upon an input comprising the football stadium as a destination e.g. entered via a navigation system for example. In one exemplary embodiment a traveler may be provided with directions to a parking lot e.g. comprising one or more parking spots and or associated coordinates several blocks away from the football stadium e.g. a destination based upon a proximity e.g. distance walking distance travel time availability of public transportation etc. of the parking lot to the football stadium. In another exemplary embodiment the traveler may be directed to a parking lot and or parking spot based upon a cost associated with the parking spot for example. Accordingly parking based route navigation may thus be provided e.g. based upon any number of factors .

In one embodiment for parking based route navigation an option associated with enabling the parking based portion of route navigation may be provided. For example a traveler may be able to select preferences to enable and or disable route navigation e.g. directly to a parking spot. For example if parking based route navigation is enabled a traveler may be provided with directions to a parking spot associated with the destination while directions to the destination may be provided if the parking based route navigation is disabled. In another exemplary embodiment the option may be automatically selected and or inferred from a variety of factors e.g. time of day associating the destination with an event etc. for example. Further navigation may be provided from the parking spot to the destination e.g. based upon walking distance whether walkways are covered to protect travelers against the elements such as wind rain and or snow current weather conditions and or by providing public transit to facilitate travel from the parking spot to the destination for example. According to one aspect a list of parking spots e.g. a suggested parking spot and or one or more alternative spots may be provided and or ranked based upon a selection algorithm and or traveler preferences e.g. cost . To this end a parking spot selection may be received e.g. from a traveler and or based upon a selection algorithm and a parking data feed may be updated accordingly. For example if a traveler reserves a parking spot e.g. based upon the parking spot selection a parking data feed may be updated to reflect such usage e.g. based upon an actual arrival time anticipated arrival time actual departure time and or an anticipated departure time associated with the reservation and or parking spot . Therefore it is believed that parking based route navigation promotes more efficient route navigation for example.

Additionally one or more techniques and or systems for parking resource management are disclosed to manage parking spots and or reservation s thereof. The parking resource management may comprise aggregating e.g. received from parking meters parking lots parking garages surface lots etc. parking information e.g. a status of a parking spot such as taken occupied reserved vacant or open parking space distribution parking lot density anticipated traffic satisfaction level etc. associated with parking spots into a parking data feed and updating a parking database based upon the parking data feed e.g. feedback indicating a status change and or a potential status change for a spot such as a reservation inquiry and or confirmation for example. That is for example parking resources may be managed by tracking e.g. aggregating parking spots and properties associated therewith e.g. a number of available parking spots a location associated with respective parking spots and or a cost associated with respective parking spots and consolidating respective properties into a parking data feed. To this end the parking data feed may be modified based upon a change of status e.g. such as when a reservation for a parking spot is made a car parks in a spot and or a car leaves a spot associated with a parking spot for example. In one exemplary embodiment the parking data feed may be updated to reflect a reservation e.g. and or a cancellation for a parking spot upon a traveler making the reservation. In another exemplary embodiment the parking data feed may be updated upon detecting a car occupying and or vacating a parking spot for example. Accordingly parking resource management may thus be provided.

According to one aspect parking information e.g. related to a status of a parking spot such as occupied vacant reserved and or related to coordinates associated with the parking spot may be aggregated to the parking data feed from a variety of sources such as parking meters parking garages surface lots on street parking cameras sensors global positioning devices or from a parking based route navigation system e.g. configured to provide confirmation verification and or reservation of a spot etc. for example. That is for example the parking data feed may be indicative of parking properties e.g. number of available spots parking distribution parking density etc. for an area. In one embodiment an alert may be provided based upon a proximity of a traveler to a parking spot associated with a reservation. For example if the traveler is associated with the reservation the alert may indicate that the traveler has arrived at the reserved parking spot. Conversely if a traveler is not associated with a parking spot e.g. reserved parking spot an alert may be provided to indicate that the traveler should not park in the parking spot at least because the spot is already reserved and or is not the spot reserved for the traveler. In one exemplary embodiment a map of parking spots may be provided comprising indicators for occupied spots reserved spots and or vacant spots for example. In this manner a traveler may view a layout of a parking lot where reserved and available spots are indicated differently e.g. different colors for example so that the traveler can select reserve an available spot or even outbid someone else to take over an already reserved spot e.g. front row via an interactive user interface for example. In another embodiment reservations may adjusted re routed based upon parking factors e.g. parking distribution and or parking density associated with parking for an area e.g. parking lots parking garages surface lots parking meters etc. . Thus if a parking garage is near full capacity a traveler with a reservation in the parking garage may for example be re routed to another parking garage e.g. comprising less traffic and or fewer occupied spots . In one embodiment a traveler may receive a digital ticket on a portable device e.g. cell phone personal desktop assistant etc. and have the digital ticket scanned e.g. via a barcode scanner at an entrance exit and or ticket booth for access to and or departure from a parking garage for example.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques and or systems for parking based route navigation are disclosed to facilitate navigation to parking spots associated with destinations. Navigation may be provided to a parking spot based upon a distance to a destination and or costs associated with the parking spot for example. Moreover navigation e.g. instructions alternate transport such as public transit etc. from the parking spot to the destination may be provided. Additionally one or more techniques and or systems for parking resource management are disclosed to facilitate management and tracking of parking spots. For example parking spots may be reserved by a parking management system based upon reservations received through parking based route navigation systems. Moreover travelers may be re routed based upon traffic around a parking location parking density etc. Accordingly travelers may be routed to destinations in a more efficient manner. It will be appreciated that a parking spot parking garage parking deck parking meter and or parking lot does not have to be part of and or attached to a destination facility and or venue etc.

Parking based route navigation may be provided from a first location e.g. a current location an input location an inferred location etc. to a parking spot associated with the destination for example. That is for example if a traveler desires to attend a professional football game e.g. a desired destination route navigation may be provided from a current location e.g. a first location associated with the traveler to a parking spot near e.g. associated with the football stadium. To this end travelers may be provided with more efficient navigation instructions. In one embodiment parking spots may be associated with corresponding coordinates for example. The exemplary method ends at thereafter.

According to yet another aspect parking based route navigation may be enabled and or disabled based upon real time data indicative of a parking situation associated with the destination for example. That is for example If there are twenty parking garages located near a destination and nineteen of the twenty garages are full and or close to full capacity e.g. percent of parking spaces occupied parking density of an area parking based route navigation may be automatically enabled for a traveler heading towards the destination e.g. because without the same the traveler may spend an inordinate amount of time driving around trying to find an available parking spot .

At in the example method a parking database may be searched for a parking spot associated with the destination received at for example. Search criteria e.g. parking criteria may be used to filter parking spots based on desirability for example. In one embodiment parking criteria may be determined by presenting a traveler with questions and receiving associated answers. In another embodiment parking criteria may be entered as a set of user preferences for example. A traveler may indicate a desired walking distance e.g. a parking radius indicative of a distance and or proximity from the parking spot to the destination not to be exceeded when searching for the spot . Another embodiment may comprise filtering parking spots based upon a cost preference e.g. a preference indicated that the parking spot should not exceed X dollars . In one embodiment parking spots may be selected e.g. via a user preference based on whether the parking spot is covered e.g. a covered garage and or whether the parking spot provides covered walkways to the traveler s destination for example. Accordingly one aspect provides for parking criteria based on current weather conditions. That is for example if the weather is rainy a traveler may be directed to a parking spot that comprises cover and or covered walkways to the destination. According to another aspect parking based route navigation may be provided utilizing mass transit and or public transit for example. A traveler may indicate a preference for mass and or public transit e.g. average wait time for the public transit such as a trolley comes approximately every two minutes or be provided with public transit via a selection algorithm for example. Public transit may enable a traveler to be transported closer to a destination than by car in some scenarios e.g. and thus be selected via the selection algorithm . That is for example if a street is shut down e.g. for a parade and detected based on an event map application et. mass transit e.g. subway trolley bus etc. may be able to drop a traveler off closer to a location than parking via a car for example. According to another aspect mass transit may comprise a lower cost than a parking spot and thus be selected and or incorporated into the parking based route navigation. Parking information may be received from the parking database at . For example parking information may comprise one or more parking spots returned in response to the received destination as well as criteria associated with used in returning the one or more parking spots. To this end parking information may comprise one or more suggested parking spots and or one or more alternative parking spots. Parking information may be returned at based upon parking criteria e.g. cost of a parking spot distance of the parking spot from a destination whether the parking spot is covered whether the destination is accessible via walkways to protect the traveler from the elements whether mass and or public transit may be incorporated estimated arrival time estimated departure time etc. . Parking criteria may comprise average wait time for a parking spot type of parking spot types of payments accepted whether a garage will be open at an anticipated departure time likelihood of availability of a spot average parking lot fill time etc. Such examples are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all such criteria possibilities.

A selection algorithm may be employed at to facilitate sorting and or ranking of available parking spots based upon the parking information parking database and or parking criteria for example. In one embodiment if a traveler indicates a covered parking spot is desired e.g. via selection of an associated option parking spots associated with covered walkways to the destination may be ranked higher than parking spots associated with no covered walkways at least because an inference pertaining to weather may be drawn e.g. based on selection of the covered spot preference . In another embodiment the selection algorithm may be configured to sort based on traveler preferences e.g. historical choices a hierarchy of preferences and or inferred preferences . According to one aspect if a traveler historically chooses higher cost parking e.g. closer to a destination over lower cost parking e.g. farther from the destination parking spots may be ranked accordingly. In one embodiment a traveler may manually rank preferences in a hierarchical order e.g. covered parking preferred over less expensive parking for example. In another embodiment a hierarchical order may be automatically determined based upon parking inferences for example. To this end parking inferences may comprise inferences based upon current weather conditions for example. That is for example if it is snowing at the destination the hierarchical order may be rearranged such that cover takes precedence over cost e.g. rank a 10 covered spot higher than an 8 uncovered spot at least because the parking inference may be based upon current weather.

At parking based route navigation may be provided from a first location to a parking spot associated with the destination. Further the parking based route navigation may be based upon factors such as parking criteria for example. In one embodiment a traveler may be directed to different parking spots depending on the time of day and or day of the week for example. That is for example if a traveler is arriving at a destination at 8 PM parking meters may be free so parking based route navigation may provide for directions from the first location to a parking meter. Further the parking based route navigation may take an estimated departure time into account for example. That is for example if the traveler anticipates an arrival time of 8 PM but plans to stay e.g. an estimated departure until 3 PM the next day e.g. when parking meters will be in effect other parking options may be considered and or presented to the traveler at least because the traveler may not desire to be inconvenienced by the parking meter e.g. have to put money in the meter in the middle of the night . According to one aspect parking criteria received may be indicative of whether a user desires a parking spot with one or more surrounding vacant spots for example. To this end a parking spot surrounded by vacant spots may be associated with a higher ranking for example. Additionally parking based route navigation to a parking spot may comprise sending alerts to a traveler based on a location associated with the traveler. For example if a traveler attempts to park in a parking spot other than a corresponding spot reserved for the traveler an alert may be generated sent and or received by a parking based route navigation system. In one embodiment alerts may be sent and or received to guide a traveler to a parking spot and or to confirm that the traveler has parked in a reserved spot.

After a traveler arrives at a parking spot parking based route navigation may be provided from the parking spot to the destination in addition to the parking based route navigation . The parking based route navigation from the parking spot to the destination may comprise public transit for example. In one embodiment if a traveler reserves a spot at a parking garage the reservation may comprise public transit to the destination for example. That is for example if a parking garage is located farther away than a preferred walking distance e.g. a preference selected by a traveler parking spots outside of the walking distance radius may be selected by providing public transit e.g. metro bus subway rental bikes etc. to the destination. The cost ticketing and or arrangements may be incorporated into a ticket e.g. digital ticket on a portable device for quicker access for example. The digital ticket may be sent to and or received by a portable device and may comprise a barcode e.g. or other type of code to facilitate scanning for example.

It will be appreciated that parking based route navigation of and or may comprise a digital ticket associated with parking and or transportation to a destination for example. In one embodiment a portable device associated with the traveler e.g. cell phone personal digital assistant navigation system etc. may receive a digital ticket to facilitate entry into and or exit of a facility and or transportation associated therewith. For example a parking garage and or parking deck may have a scanner for reading digital tickets and may grant a traveler access based upon a scan of the digital ticket on the portable device. According to another aspect public transit and or mass transit of may scan the digital ticket to relay the traveler to and or from the destination and parking spot.

The parking database may be updated based upon updated parking information and or feedback e.g. parking data feed etc. indicating a status of a parking spot for example. In one embodiment updated parking information may be sent based upon an actual arrival of a traveler at a parking spot. For example the actual arrival may be determined based on a detection of arrival e.g. manual detection and or automatic detection GPS associated with the traveler a barcode scan a camera associated with the parking spot a manual entry made by a parking attendant and or payment of a fee e.g. at an electronically monitored parking meter . In another embodiment updated parking information may be sent based on an anticipated arrival of the traveler for example. According to one aspect the feedback e.g. pertaining to the anticipated arrival may be based upon a reservation for example. To this end feedback comprising a received reservation e.g. from a traveler may prompt updated parking information e.g. indicative of the reservation to be sent to a parking database for example. Further additional updated parking information may be sent to the parking database based on feedback provided at . For example a traveler may indicate an anticipated departure time thus the anticipated departure time may be sent to the parking database e.g. to indicate an anticipated block of time that the parking spot may be occupied for example . In one embodiment feedback may be based upon an actual departure time and or an anticipated departure time associated with a reservation and or a parking spot. An anticipated arrival time may also be calculated based upon a present traveler location and travel condition e.g. traffic road construction etc. associated with a route to be traveled e.g. provided at for example. In another embodiment if a traveler cancels a reservation updated parking information e.g. feedback reflecting the cancellation may be sent to the parking database for example. The exemplary method ends at thereafter.

A parking component may be configured to provide parking based route navigation from a first location to a parking spot associated with a destination for example. Parking component may be configured to provide navigation to a destination and or a parking spot associated with the destination.

A navigation component may be configured to search a parking database e.g. comprising a list of available parking spots for a parking spot associated with the destination. Additionally navigation component may be configured to receive parking information from the parking database.

Parking component may be configured to sort the available parking spots based upon a selection algorithm for example. Additionally parking component may be configured to enable parking based route navigation by providing turn by turn directions from a first location to a parking spot selected e.g. automatically selected algorithm selected and or traveler selected from the available parking spots to the destination. Further the parking component may provide parking based route navigation based upon factors such as parking criteria for example.

A public transit component may be configured to provide parking based route navigation from a selected parking spot to the destination. Additionally public transit component may be configured to provide public transit from the parking spot to the destination. For example if a traveler may indicate e.g. input a walking radius preference that a five minute walk is the longest he or she is willing to walk from a parking spot to the destination. To this end parking component may provide a parking spot outside e.g. comprising a walk longer than the five minute walking radius by providing public transit to and or from the parking spot and the destination for example. Therefore a fan attending a football game may park in a parking garage farther than a desired walking distance but take public transit to and or from the game.

A display component may comprise a traveler interface and the display component may be configured to display turn by turn directions for the traveler selections and or options when multiple routes parking spots etc. may be chosen.

Parking database may comprise parking information related to parking garages parking lots parking meters and or parking spots etc. Parking database may be configured to determine a physical status of a spot such as whether the spot is occupied or vacant for example. Additionally the parking database may be configured to manage times associated with a spot. For example if a spot is reserved at three PM parking database may comprise parking information to reflect the reservation accordingly.

Parking data feed component may be configured to update the parking database based upon feedback from at least one of the routing component navigation component parking component and or public transit component etc. In one embodiment the feedback may comprise an indication of a status change for a parking spot and the indication may be physical and or time based. For example a physical indication of a status change associated with a parking spot may be a detection indicating that a spot is occupied. A time based indication of a status change may be based upon a reservation that was made for example.

A reservation management component may be configured to receive reservations monitor a plurality of parking lots spots garages etc. and route travelers to various parking spots for example.

A parking database may be updated based upon feedback from a parking resource management system for example. That is for example if a traveler makes a reservation e.g. feedback via a portable device a parking data feed may update the parking database accordingly. If the traveler cancels his or her reservation the parking data feed may update the parking database to reflect the cancellation. In one embodiment feedback may be provided based upon a physical status e.g. occupied and or vacant confirmation an inquiry regarding availability and or a confirmation e.g. visual indication a traveler has arrived at a parking spot associated with a parking spot. The exemplary method ends at thereafter.

At in the example method parking spots may be tracked according to a status from a parking database for example. In one embodiment parking spots may comprise a vacant e.g. available reserved and or occupied e.g. taken status. Moreover the tracking of may be based upon parking criteria received at for example. Parking spots may be tracked based on information from electronic parking meters parking lots surface lots on street parking etc. Additionally parking properties may be tracked and or associated with respective parking spots for example. According to one aspect parking properties may comprise a parking status e.g. indicative of availability of parking spots such as vacant occupied and or reserved etc. and parking density e.g. how full a parking garage is percent capacity of the parking garage occupied whether consecutive spots are occupied and or arranged . In one embodiment a cost associated with a parking spot may be based upon availability of parking in an area. For example if a parking garage e.g. an area may be comprised of multiple parking garages is at 90 capacity costs associated e.g. to make additional reservations for the remaining 10 of spots with remaining parking spots may be adjusted e.g. increased . To this end cost may be based upon a number of reservations made e.g. an influx of reservations and or an event e.g. parking price increase for a game and or a high number of reservations for example. Thus in one example costs for parking spots may increase even if there is no event e.g. merely because there happen to be many travelers parking at or around a same time . Further parking properties may comprise a total number of parking spots an available number of parking spots a reserved number of parking spots an occupied number of parking spots etc. For example parking density may be measured for a given row in a garage in a single garage and or in an area e.g. a one mile radius of a destination . According to another aspect parking properties may comprise parking distribution e.g. a profile indicative of how parking spots are occupied for example . On less busy days it may be desirable for a parking resource management system to fill up a parking lot using a checkerboard pattern to facilitate quicker parking speeds for example. According to another example it may be desirable for a parking management system to assign parking spots consecutively e.g. based on anticipated garage usage . According to one aspect parking properties may comprise real time pricing associated with a parking spot for example. That is if a parking spot generally costs 10 but comprises a price jump to 20 on a game day such pricing may be tracked and or aggregated accordingly. Further parking properties may be tracked based upon satisfaction associated with a parking spot for example. That is if a parking garage is poorly lit located in an undesirable surrounding area etc. travelers may leave feedback associated with a parking spot and such feedback may be utilized for future tracking and or aggregation of available parking spots. In one embodiment tracking may comprise summarizing statistics associated with parking. For example if a professional football team holds eight home games a season parking statistics may be generated and or tracked using the home game as a parking criterion. That is for example parking reservation management may track which parking garages fill up on game day what time a parking garage fills up and or an average departure time for those fans etc. e.g. after they finish tailgating .

Parking information may be aggregated from a parking data feed configured to monitor parking spots at . The aggregation may be based upon parking criteria received at for example. According to one aspect aggregation may filter out parking spots based upon the parking criteria for example. That is for example if a traveler indicates e.g. via a traveler preference that he or she desires parking spots within a quarter mile radius of a destination parking spots which do not meet this criteria may be removed from consideration. According to one aspect parking data feed may aggregate parking information based upon feedback of for example. In one embodiment feedback may comprise parking information related to an occupancy status e.g. occupied reserved and or vacant for a parking spot for example. For example a traveler may have an actual arrival time anticipated arrival time actual departure time e.g. actual usage and or and anticipated departure time e.g. anticipated usage . To this end the aforementioned feedback times may be used to track and or aggregate parking spots for example. That is for example if a first traveler has an anticipated arrival time e.g. associated with a first parking spot of 11 AM and an anticipated departure time of 3 PM a second traveler searching for a parking spot in that window e.g. 11 AM to 3 PM may be not be presented with the first parking spot at least because the first traveler has indicated an anticipated occupancy from 11 AM until 3 PM. In one embodiment feedback may comprise GPS feedback from travelers for example. To this end if a first traveler makes a reservation for a parking spot but GPS associated with the first traveler indicates that the first traveler cannot meet the reservation e.g. the traveler is too far away and or the traveler is late for the reservation then feedback may update a parking database accordingly. For example if a GPS signal associated with a first traveler indicated that the first traveler is one hundred miles away from a corresponding reserved parking spot with a reservation starting in five minutes then feedback to the parking database may be provided to release the reserved parking spot based upon a reality factor e.g. it would be unrealistic for the first traveler to make his or her reservation .

According to another example if it is detected that a first traveler is running late such that a first reservation associated with the first traveler would overlap with a second reservation for a second traveler then feedback may be provided to update the parking database and re route the first traveler to a different parking spot such that no overlap occurs. For example if a first traveler makes a first reservation for a first parking spot from 9 AM until 12 PM a second traveler makes a second reservation for the same first parking spot from 12 PM until 3 PM the first traveler may be re routed to a second parking spot if his or her anticipated arrival time shifts to 10 PM and or an anticipated departure time associated with the first traveler changes to 1 PM for example. Travelers may be re routed based upon traffic in a parking lot and or garage and or anticipated traffic for example. To this end if a parking reservation system makes a determination that anticipated traffic will reach a threshold one or more travelers may be re routed accordingly.

At a parking selection may be received e.g. from a traveler and or a portable device of the traveler . In one embodiment the parking selection may be made by the traveler while another embodiment may provide for the selection to be automatically made e.g. such as by utilizing a selection algorithm for example.

At a reservation may be provided for the parking spot associated with the parking selection. In one embodiment a traveler may be provided with an alert to confirm the reservation e.g. provide a date time and or location associated with the parking spot reservation . The reservation may be provided based on a number of parking factors. For example the reservation may be provided based on parking criteria provided by the traveler. For example if a traveler desires a low cost parking spot a reservation for a corresponding parking spot may be provided . However since parking is generally fluid and or dynamic a traveler may not always be able to park at a desired location for example. If a reserved parking spot is occupied it may be in the traveler s interest e.g. quicker to navigate to another parking spot for example. Accordingly if it is detected e.g. tracked and updated in the parking database that a reserved spot is unavailable e.g. occupied an updated reservation may be provided for the traveler. In one embodiment if a parking garage comprises a high parking density e.g. a high occupancy percentage a traveler may be re routed and provided with an updated reservation to facilitate quicker parking for example. In another embodiment if a traveler has a reservation at a parking spot and traffic is heavy en route to the parking spot an updated reservation may be provided to another parking spot for example. Further a traveler may be reassigned parking spots based on parking distribution and or parking density of a parking lot and or parking garage for example. To this end if it is anticipated that a parking garage will not fill up then a reservation may be provided for travelers such that the parking distribution may be based upon a checkerboard fill pattern for example. In another embodiment if a parking garage is anticipated to fill e.g. based on an event such as a game or based on reservations for example reservations may be provided based upon a consecutive fill pattern e.g. and pricing adjusted accordingly .

At the selected spot may be associated with respective coordinates e.g. latitude and or longitude GPS coordinate street address point of interest etc. . Additionally alerts may be provided at to facilitate parking for the traveler. For example a traveler may be alerted to confirm that the traveler is parked at the spot reserved for him or her. Conversely if a traveler attempts to park at a spot already reserved for another traveler and or not at a spot reserved for the traveler an alert may be generated and or provided accordingly.

The parking database may be updated based upon updated parking information and or feedback received indicating a status of a parking spot for example. The received feedback may be based upon an anticipated arrival e.g. such as a reservation for example or may be based upon an actual arrival of a traveler e.g. GPS indication that the traveler has entered a parking lot . The exemplary method ends at thereafter.

A reservation management component may be configured to update the parking data feed and or the parking database based upon feedback e.g. a reservation an inquiry regarding availability or a confirmation associated with parking spots for example. In one embodiment feedback comprising a reservation may initiate a hold for a parking spot by the reservation management component . In another embodiment if feedback comprises an inquiry regarding availability of a parking spot the reservation management component may provide statistics related to the availability of the spot e.g. based upon current conditions date time input conditions etc. . For example if a traveler inquires about a parking spot at noon on a Friday the reservation management component may pull historical data pertaining to the availability of the selected spot and or neighboring spots on Fridays the availability of the spot at noon and or the availability for the selected parking spot at noon on Fridays for example. Additionally if the feedback comprises a confirmation e.g. of arrival and or departure of an occupant for a parking spot the reservation management component may update the parking database and or parking data feed accordingly.

Additionally parking database parking data feed component and reservation management component may be configured to interact with routing to parking components . For example reservation management component may be configured to provide real time parking information to routing to parking components to facilitate travel. That is for example if a traveler enters New York Stadium as a destination reservation management component may alert routing to parking components that parking garages within a one mile radius e.g. based on received user preferences from routing to parking components of New York Stadium are at 95 capacity e.g. real time parking information and or an associated threshold and automatically enable parking based route navigation e.g. navigation to a parking spot via the routing to parking components for example. In one embodiment reservation management component may be configured to send a digital ticket to routing to parking components to facilitate entry and or exit to a parking spot and or access to transportation to and or from the parking spot to a destination e.g. and vice versa . Routing to parking components may comprise routing component navigation component parking component public transit component and or display component of for example. According to one aspect parking management component may be configured to provide a map of parking spots comprising coordinates associated with respective spots and a parking status for a time frame e.g. occupied vacant and or reserved . In one embodiment a traveler may scroll through different time frames to see which parking spots are available at different times for example.

It will be appreciated that the components of and or may be configured to perform any one or more of the acts provided by and or for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary methods and or of respectively for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary systems and or of respectively for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processing unit a processing unit an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in respective embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

