---

title: Methods and apparatus for employing different capabilities for different duplexing modes
abstract: Certain aspects of the present disclosure propose techniques for independently signaling features supported by a user equipment (UE) in different duplexing modes. The UE may be capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing (FDD) and time division duplexing (TDD) modes. The UE may obtain a FDD-specific feature group indicators (FGIs) set and a TDD-specific FGIs set, and signal at least one of the FDD-specific FGIs set or TDD-specific FGIs set. In addition, the UE may take one or more actions to reduce the likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from its current mode of operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264198&OS=09264198&RS=09264198
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09264198
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120227
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to U. S. Provisional Application No. 61 447 624 entitled Mechanism to Decouple Feature Support Between Different Duplexing Modes filed Feb. 28 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 450 995 entitled Mechanism to Decouple Feature Support Between Different Duplexing Modes filed Mar. 9 2011 both assigned to the assignee hereof which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to wireless communications and more particularly to systems and methods that may employ different duplexing modes e.g. time division duplex TDD and frequency division duplex FDD .

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication for instance voice and or data can be provided via such wireless communication systems. A typical wireless communication system or network can provide multiple users access to one or more shared resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power etc. . For instance a system can use a variety of multiple access techniques such as Frequency Division Multiplexing FDM Time Division Multiplexing TDM Code Division Multiplexing CDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM and others.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems can simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device can communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations.

Current 3generation partnership project 3GPP specifications may define a set of feature group indicators FGIs which are signaled by the user equipment UE to the network to indicate support or non support for certain LTE and Inter Radio Access Technology I RAT features. Examples of such features may include support for handover measurements on another RAT and various other features. Based on the signaled FGIs from the UE the network may not initiate certain procedures towards the UE since these will not be supported in the UE.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The method generally includes obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and signaling at least one of the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for wireless communications with a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The method generally includes receiving signaling of at least one of a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set or a TDD specific FGIs set and determining features supported by the UE in at least one of a FDD mode or TDD mode based on the received signaling.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The method generally includes obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set signaling the FGIs set for a current mode of operation by the UE and taking at least one action designed to reduce likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The method generally includes obtaining FDD specific capabilities and TDD specific capabilities and sending a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from a first mode of operation to a second mode of operation wherein the capabilities corresponding to the second mode of operation are transmitted to the base station during the re attach procedure.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes means for obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and means for signaling at least one of the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications with a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes means for receiving signaling of at least one of a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set or a TDD specific FGIs set and means for determining features supported by the UE in at least one of a FDD mode or TDD mode based on the received signaling.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes means for obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set means for signaling the FGIs set for a current mode of operation by the apparatus and means for taking at least one action designed to reduce likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes means for obtaining FDD specific capabilities and TDD specific capabilities and means for sending a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from a first mode of operation to a second mode of operation wherein the capabilities corresponding to the second mode of operation is transmitted to the base station during the re attach procedure.

Certain aspects provide a computer program product for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The computer program product typically includes a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors. The instructions generally include instructions for obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and instructions for signaling at least one of the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set.

Certain aspects provide a computer program product for wireless communications with a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The computer program product typically includes a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors. The instructions generally include instructions for receiving signaling of at least one of a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set or a TDD specific FGIs set and instructions for determining features supported by the UE in at least one of a FDD mode or TDD mode based on the received signaling.

Certain aspects provide a computer program product for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The computer program product typically includes a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors. The instructions generally include instructions for obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set instructions for signaling the FGIs set for a current mode of operation by the UE and instructions for taking at least one action designed to reduce likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation.

Certain aspects provide a computer program product for wireless communications by a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The computer program product typically includes a computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors. The instructions generally include instructions for obtaining a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and instructions for sending a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from a first mode of operation to a second mode of operation wherein a FGIs set corresponding to the second mode of operation is transmitted to the base station during the re attach procedure.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to obtain a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and signal at least one of the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications with a user equipment capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to receive signaling of at least one of a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set or a TDD specific FGIs set and determine features supported by the UE in at least one of a FDD mode or TDD mode based on the received signaling.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor configured to obtain a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set signal the FGIs set for a current mode of operation by the UE and take at least one action designed to reduce likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for wireless communications capable of communicating in frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD modes. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to obtain a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set and send a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from a first mode of operation to a second mode of operation wherein a FGIs set corresponding to the second mode of operation is transmitted to the base station during the re attach procedure.

The techniques described herein can be used for various wireless communication networks such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks Time Division Multiple Access TDMA networks Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA networks Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA networks Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA networks etc. The terms networks and systems are often used interchangeably. A CDMA network can implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and Low Chip Rate LCR . cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network can implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA network can implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA E UTRA and GSM are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release of UMTS that uses E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA GSM UMTS and LTE are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 is described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . These various radio technologies and standards are known in the art. For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for LTE and LTE terminology is used in portions of the description below.

Single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA which utilizes single carrier modulation and frequency domain equalization is a technique that can be utilized with various aspects described herein. SC FDMA has similar performance and essentially the same overall complexity as those of an OFDMA system. SC FDMA signal has lower peak to average power ratio PAPR because of its inherent single carrier structure. SC FDMA has drawn great attention especially in the uplink communications where lower PAPR greatly benefits the mobile terminal in terms of transmit power efficiency. It is currently a working assumption for an uplink multiple access scheme in 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Evolved UTRA.

Referring to a multiple access wireless communication system according to one aspect is illustrated. An access point AP includes multiple antenna groups one including and another including and and an additional including and . An access point AP may also be referred to as a base station BS eNodeB or simply eNB. In only two antennas are shown for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each antenna group. Access terminal AT is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . An access terminal AT may also be referred to as a user terminal UT mobile station MS user equipment UE wireless communication device or some other terminology. Access terminal is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system communication links and can use different frequencies for communication. For example forward link can use a different frequency than that used by the reverse link .

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designed to communicate is often referred to as a sector of the access point. In one aspect respective antenna groups are designed to communicate with access terminals in a sector of the areas covered by the access point .

In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of access point may utilize beamforming in order to improve the signal to noise ratio of forward links for the different access terminals and . Also an access point using beamforming to transmit to access terminals scattered randomly through its coverage causes less interference to access terminals in neighboring cells than an access point transmitting through a single antenna to all of its access terminals.

In an aspect each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using OFDM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. Examples of modulation schemes may include Binary Phase Shift Keying BPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK M PSK or M QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation where M is an integer. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed by processor which may be coupled with the memory .

The modulation symbols for respective data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In certain aspects TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are then transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At receiver system the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. The RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at transmitter system .

A processor which may be coupled with the memory periodically determines which pre coding matrix to use. Processor formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion. The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to transmitter system .

At transmitter system the modulated signals from receiver system are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reserve link message transmitted by the receiver system . Processor then determines which pre coding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights then processes the extracted message.

In an aspect logical channels are classified into Control Channels and Traffic Channels. Logical Control Channels comprise a Broadcast Control Channel BCCH which is a downlink DL channel for broadcasting system control information a Paging Control Channel PCCH which is a DL channel that transfers paging information and a Multicast Control Channel MCCH which is a point to multipoint DL channel used for transmitting Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service MBMS scheduling and control information for one or several MTCHs. Generally after establishing an RRC radio resource control connection this channel is only used by user equipments UEs that receive MBMS Note old MCCH MSCH . Dedicated Control Channel DCCH is a point to point bi directional channel that transmits dedicated control information and used by UEs having an RRC connection. In an aspect Logical Traffic Channels comprise a Dedicated Traffic Channel DTCH which is a point to point bi directional channel dedicated to one UE for the transfer of user information and a Multicast Traffic Channel MTCH which is a point to multipoint DL channel for transmitting traffic data.

In an aspect Transport Channels are classified into DL and uplink UL . DL Transport Channels comprise a Broadcast Channel BCH Downlink Shared Data Channel DL SDCH and a Paging Channel PCH the PCH for support of UE power saving DRX cycle is indicated by the network to the UE broadcasted over entire cell and mapped to PHY resources which can be used for other control traffic channels. The UL Transport Channels comprise a Random Access Channel RACH a Request Channel REQCH an Uplink Shared Data Channel UL SDCH and a plurality of PHY channels. The PHY channels comprise a set of DL channels and UL channels.

Current 3GPP specifications may define a set of feature group indicators FGIs which are signaled by the user equipment UE to the network to indicate support or non support for certain LTE and Inter Radio Access Technology I RAT features. Examples of such features may include support for handover performing measurements on another RAT semi persistent scheduling and various other features. An example list of definitions for FGIs that may be signaled by a UE may be found in 3GPP 36.331. Based on the signaled FGIs from the UE the network may not initiate certain procedures towards the UE since these may not be supported in the UE.

Currently feature group indicator FGIs in the LTE do not specify the mode of operation e.g. FDD or time division duplex TDD to which they apply. Hence a UE supporting a certain feature set is per specification required to support the full feature set in both FDD and TDD modes of operation. This may be undesired from a product release perspective because certain features may become available in one mode e.g. FDD sooner than in the other mode of operation e.g. TDD . Hence according to the specifications a device that is capable of operating in both FDD and TDD modes may have to restrict feature support to only include features that are supported in both of the duplexing modes of operation.

According to certain aspects of the present disclosure however separate groups or sets of capabilities e.g. feature group indicators FGIs may be defined for different modes of operation e.g. LTE FDD and LTE TDD . One approach to implement separate groups of FGIs may be to utilize the current set of FGIs e.g. as defined in the Rel 8 of the LTE standard or a slightly modified version thereof as being applicable only for LTE FDD while a new set of FGIs may be added specifically for TDD mode. Alternatively the current set of FGIs or a slightly modified version thereof may be defined as being applicable only for LTE TDD mode while a new set of FGIs may be added specifically for FDD mode. In this manner for example a UE may indicate support for TDD and FDD features independently. As a result a feature that is supported in only one of the modes e.g. FDD can be made available earlier even if the feature is not supported in the other mode e.g. TDD .

For certain aspects in order to have separate groups of FGIs for different modes of operation the entire FGI table e.g. the table showing correspondence of FGIs and features may be split in two columns one corresponding to the LTE TDD and the other corresponding to the LTE FDD mode of operation. The last bit of the FGIs e.g. the most significant bit bit number may be used to toggle between the two columns modes. This may allow the UE for example to send information in only one of the columns over the air at any time.

Certain aspects may enable a UE provider to reduce time to market for new handsets e.g. LTE handsets that support both FDD and TDD. The proposed method allows a UE to support a wider range of features in one mode without being constrained by the unavailability of those features in the other mode.

System may include one or more UEs terminals mobile or wireless stations and the like such as UE . The UE may communicate with one or more eNBs base stations access points Node Bs network cells and the like on an uplink and or downlink. In an aspect the UE and the eNB can include any number of antennas not shown for UL DL communication within the system .

In various wireless communication deployments respective UEs can be configured with different levels of capability and in some cases with different features supported in different operating modes. For example for an LTE system the UE may be capable of supporting a first set of features in the TDD mode and a second set of features in the FDD mode. To allow the UE to independently signal these different sets of features the UE may obtain maintain a FDD specific FGIs set and a TDD specific FGIs set . The UE may decide which set of features to signal using a processing module . The UE may also include a transmitter module for transmitting the FDD specific and or TDD specific FGIs to the eNB. The receiving module may be used for receiving downlink communications from the eNB.

At any given time the UE may signal one or both of the mode specific FGIs to the eNB . The eNB may receive the one or both of the mode specific FGIs with a receiver module . The eNB may then determine what features are supported by the UE in a given mode e.g. with a feature determination module . In some cases the eNB may receive only the set of FGIs for a current operating mode determine what features are available and initiate procedures for the UE accordingly. According to certain aspects the eNB may receive signaling of both sets of FGIs and for example determine what features are available in both and initiate a transition between modes accordingly. The eNB may also use a transmitter module to transmit signals to the UE .

The operations begin at by obtaining a set of TDD specific feature group indicators FGIs and set of FDD FGIs. In the illustrated example if the UE is operating in FDD mode the UE may signal the FDD specific FGIs set at . On the other hand if the UE is operating in TDD mode the UE may signal the TDD specific FGIs set at . According to certain aspects the UE may signal both the TDD specific FGIs set and FDD specific FGIs set regardless of the current duplexing mode.

For certain aspects the UE may signal the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set as part of a Capability Update procedure.

For certain aspects the UEs may advertise different sets of features in FDD and TDD modes. However in the current versions of the LTE standard the UE capability may only be sent by the UE upon attach. Subsequently the UE capability may be exchanged directly between the eNBs even if the eNBs operate in different modes. This means that the eNBs may not request an updated UE capability upon a mode change. Therefore for certain aspects the UE may force a UE capability exchange upon a mode change to make sure that the eNBs have the FGIs set related to the new mode of operation. For certain aspects the UE may force a UE capability exchange and hence FGIs set exchange by performing a detach re attach procedure as further described herein.

Initially the UE may advertize different sets of FGIs for LTE FDD and LTE TDD modes. The mode of operation may be chosen based on the first eNB that the UE has camped on during cell selection on LTE e.g. when UE tries to find both FDD and TDD systems . Once the mode of operation is chosen certain aspects of the present disclosure relate to methods and apparatus for reducing and or preventing mobility between different modes of operation e.g. LTE FDD to LTE TDD LTE TDD to LTE FDD and LTE TDD RAT to UTRAN 1 HRPD RAT in which UTRAN stands for Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network 1 refers to the CDMA2000 1 and HRPD stands for high rate packet data . In accordance with certain aspects while operating in TDD mode the UE may prune out neighbor FDD frequencies or frequency bands in a system information block e.g. SIB5 . The system information block type 5 SIB5 contains parameters for the configuration of the common physical channels in the cell. Similarly while operating in FDD mode the UE may prune out neighbor TDD frequencies in the SIB5.

According to certain aspects the UE may reduce and or prevent e.g. disable LTE TDD inter radio access technology I RAT mobility to UTRAN 1 HRPD during idle mode by pruning out the corresponding frequencies in the SIB6 and SIB8. The system information block type 6 SIB6 contains parameters for the configuration of the common and shared physical channels to be used in connected mode. The system information block type 8 SIB8 contains static common packet channel CPCH information to be used in the cell.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure relate to methods and apparatus for reducing and or preventing LTE FDD to LTE TDD and LTE TDD to LTE FDD mobility while the UE is in the active mode. According to certain aspects while the UE is in LTE FDD mode the UE may reduce and or prevent active mode mobility by disabling LTE TDD frequency bands in the UE capability information element IE . Similarly while the UE is in LTE TDD mode the UE may disable LTE FDD frequency bands in the UE capability IE.

According to certain aspects while in LTE TDD the UE may reduce and or prevent active mode LTE TDD IRAT mobility to UTRAN 1 HRPD by disabling UTRAN 1 HRPD frequency bands in the UE capability IE.

In case of a mode change certain aspects of the present disclosure may force the eNB to query for updated UE capability information. If the mode change happened as a result of an out of service radio link failure OOS RLF based mobility the UE may force detach re attach procedures so that at least one new FGIs set is exchanged. For certain aspects a new flag may be added to the service indication application programming interfaces API from radio resource control RRC connection layer to non access stratum NAS connection layer indicating if FDD TDD mode of operation change has happened. The mode change may be indicated by RRC to NAS as soon as the FDD TDD mode change is detected by the RRC regardless whether the UE is in idle or connected mode. The RRC may keep track of the current FDD TDD mode and the FDD TDD mode that was previously camped on. If the FDD TDD mode change is indicated to NAS at service indication the NAS may trigger a detach procedure followed by a re attach procedure. NAS may also inform data stream DS layer to release existing bearer contexts.

For certain aspects unless the network releases the RRC connection after detach the UE may use the same RRC connection for the subsequent attach request as per Release 8 9 specifications of the LTE standard note that a separate RRC connection may be required in Rel 10 of the LTE standard .

For certain aspects for the out of service OOS based mobility the UE may try to search for service starting with the frequencies frequency bands of the systems with the same mode e.g. FDD as the last successfully camped systems. For example if the UE last camped on FDD the UE may begin looking for service on FDD systems. Similarly if the UE last camped on TDD the UE may begin looking for service on TDD systems.

For certain aspects in the event that a detach procedure is triggered the internet protocol IP connectivity may be lost and may need to be re established. This may result in degraded end user experience depending on application behavior e.g. restart of application . For certain aspects LTE FDD to LTE TDD mobility and vice versa may be limited to OOS procedures. Other mobility procedures such as handover redirections and reselections may not be executed.

The operations begin at where the UE may obtain a FDD specific feature group indicators FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set. At the UE may signal the FGIs set for its current mode of operation. At the UE may take at least one action designed to reduce the likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation. The UE may utilize the processing module to decide which action is suitable.

In some aspects taking at least one action designed to reduce the likelihood of transitioning may comprise during an idle mode ignoring neighbor frequencies for a mode different from the current mode of operation that is broadcasted in a system information block SIB . In another aspect taking at least one action may comprise disabling frequency bands for mode of operation that are different from the current mode of operation advertised in a UE capability message. According to another aspect taking the action may comprise disabling inter RAT radio access technology mobility by disabling frequency bands for one or more RATs advertised in a UE capability message. Taking the action may also comprise taking action to force a base station to query for UE capability. For example a Non Access Stratum NAS connection layer may be notified by a Radio Resource Control RRC connection layer of a change from the current mode of operation to a different mode of operation. The NAS connection layer may cause the UE to perform detachment and re attachment procedures.

In yet another aspect taking the action may comprise taking action to force a base station to force a detachment and re attachment procedure while giving bias to the current mode of operation during the re attachment procedure.

According to certain aspects the current mode of operation may comprise a TDD mode and taking at least one action to reduce the likelihood of transitioning to a mode of operation that is different from the current mode of operation may comprise disabling inter RAT mobility by ignoring frequencies broadcast in at least one system information block SIB .

According to certain aspects the current mode of operation may comprise a TDD mode and taking at least one action may comprise disabling inter RAT radio access technology mobility during an active mode and disabling frequency bands for a RAT that is different from a current RAT while in the current mode of operation in which the frequency bands may be advertised in a UE capability message.

It should be noted that the method described herein may be used temporarily e.g. to reduce time to market of new handsets . Once the mobility between LTE FDD and TDD is supported it is expected that LTE FDD and TDD feature sets are also aligned. When the FGIs in both the FDD and TDD are aligned e.g. each feature is supported in both modes the UE may only send one set of FGIs that correspond to both FDD and TDD modes of operation.

The operations begin at where the UE may obtain FDD specific capabilities and TDD specific capabilities. For certain aspects the capabilities may include TDD specific FGIs set and FDD specific FGIs set. At the UE may send a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from a first mode of operation to a second mode of operation. The capabilities corresponding to the second mode of operation are transmitted to the base station during the re attach procedure. In this manner the UE may perform detach and re attach procedures when changing from the first mode of operation to the second mode of operation. As an example the first mode of operation may be FDD and the second mode of operation may be TDD. The UE may transmit TDD specific capabilities e.g. FGIs set to the base station during the re attach procedure.

The various operations corresponding to blocks illustrated in the methods of described above may be performed by various hardware and or software component s and or module s .

For example means for obtaining a FDD specific FGIs set and TDD specific FGIs set may be performed by a processor or any suitable processing component such as the processing module in . Means for signaling at least one of the FDD specific FGIs set or TDD specific FGIs set may be performed by a transmitter such as the transmitter module . Similarly means for taking at least one action may be performed by a processor or any suitable processing component such as the processing module as illustrated in . In addition means for receiving signaling may be performed by a receiver such as the receiver module and means for determining features supported by the UE may be performed by a processing unit such as the feature determination module as illustrated in . Similarly means for sending a request to a base station to perform detach and re attach procedures may be performed by a transmitter such as the transmitter module .

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the present disclosure may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device PLD discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any commercially available processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the present disclosure may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in any form of storage medium that is known in the art. Some examples of storage media that may be used include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM and so forth. A software module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across multiple storage media. A storage medium may be coupled to a processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is specified the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

The functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions on a computer readable medium. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers.

Software or instructions may also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of transmission medium.

Further it should be appreciated that modules and or other appropriate means for performing the methods and techniques described herein can be downloaded and or otherwise obtained by a user terminal and or base station as applicable. For example such a device can be coupled to a server to facilitate the transfer of means for performing the methods described herein. Alternatively various methods described herein can be provided via storage means e.g. RAM ROM a physical storage medium such as a compact disc CD or floppy disk etc. such that a user terminal and or base station can obtain the various methods upon coupling or providing the storage means to the device. Moreover any other suitable technique for providing the methods and techniques described herein to a device can be utilized.

As used herein a phrase referring to at least one of a list of items refers to any combination of those items including single members. As an example at least one of a b or c is intended to cover a b c a b a c b c and a b c.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and apparatus described above without departing from the scope of the claims.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present disclosure other and further embodiments of the disclosure may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

