---

title: Phase interpolator with voltage-controlled oscillator injection-lock
abstract: In one embodiment, one or more circuits convert an n-bit control code of a phase interpolator to a coupling control signal of k-bit wide. The one or more circuits couple one or more output signals of the phase interpolator to a reference clock of the phase interpolator based on the coupling control signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08674773&OS=08674773&RS=08674773
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08674773
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120131
---
A phase interpolator outputs periodical signals based on a set of reference signals and a control signal. The control signal controls the phases of the output signals and is typically a digital signal. A phase interpolator with a digital control signal produces output signals having discrete phases. Phase interpolators may be used in a variety of systems such as radio frequency RF receivers and Plesiochronous or Mesochronous communications systems.

Injection lock refers to a phenomena when a first signal is coupled to a second signal while the two signals having similar but different frequencies or phases the coupling may cause the frequency or phase of the second signal to be essentially identical to the frequency or phase of the first signal.

A phase interpolator outputs periodical signals based on a set of reference signals and a control signal. Each reference signal has an amplitude and a phase. Hereafter let denote the phase in degrees of a signal. The control signal controls the phases of the output signals. The functionality of the phase interpolator is to set the phase of an output signal to track the digital control code provided by the control signal at its input.

The digital control signal may have a value represented using a binary number. The number of bits used to represent the digital control signal determines how may different phases may be produced by a phase interpolator i.e. how many different phases an output signal can be set to . The larger number of bits used to represent the digital control signal the larger number of different phases can be produced by the phase interpolator and vise versa. As one example suppose that the digital control signal is represented using seven 7 bits. Applying this 7 bit control signal to the phase interpolator illustrated in the higher two 2 bits may be used to represent the sections within the phase range while the lower five 5 bits may be used to represent the phases within each section. More specifically for the higher two bits that represent the sections 00 may indicate section between 0 and 90 01 may indicate section between 90 and 180 10 may indicate section between 180 and 270 and 11 may indicate section between 270 and 360 . The lower five bits are used to represent the phases within each section and five bits can represent up to 32 2 32 distinct input values. Thus with a 7 bit control signal the phase interpolator can produce up to 128 4 32 128 or 2 128 different output phases. In other words a specific output signal can be set to 128 different phases.

Phase interpolators are usually among the most critical components in high speed communication systems. High speed phase interpolators often require use of multiple phases of high frequency reference clock input with low mutual phase error and low noise. However distributing such high frequency and high quality reference clock signals can have negative impact on power and implementation cost. Particular embodiments herein describe a high performance and low power phase interpolator using a single reference clock phase.

Particular embodiments may utilize a ring voltage controlled oscillator VCO to generate a set of output signals of a phase interpolator each having a specific and discrete phase within the phase range of the phase interpolator. Particular embodiments may contemplate any suitable multistage VCO to generate a set of output signals of a phase interpolator. For example and without limitation particular embodiments may utilize rotary wave traveling oscillators or a multistage inductance capacitance LC VCO to generate a set of output signals of a phase interpolator each having a specific and discrete phase within the phase range of the phase interpolator. illustrates an example ring VCO. In the example of ring VCO may comprise a plurality of delay elements forming a ring oscillator. For example and without limitation delay element can be a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS inverter or a fully differential amplifier. Particular embodiments contemplate any type of delay element suitable for a ring VCO. For example a frequency fof ring VCO can be

In particular embodiments each output signal piout i may be selectively coupled to a phase of reference clock based on an n bit digital control signal or control code picode n 1 0 . In particular embodiments delta sigma modulator and one hot encoder may convert the n bit control code picode n 1 0 into a coupling control signal c k 1 0 of k bit wide . In particular embodiments each bit c i of coupling control signal may selectively couple an output signal piout i inversely to a phase of reference clock by turning on off pass gate e.g. an N type metal oxide semiconductor or NMOS transistor as illustrated in . Particular embodiments contemplate any circuit configuration suitable for selectively coupling an output signal piout i to a phase of reference clock . By selectively coupling an output signal piout i to a phase of reference clock particular embodiments may enable phase interpolation by generating output signals piout k 1 0 with a set of discrete phases determined by a number of delay stages of ring VCO . For example for a 5 stage ring VCO as described earlier output signals piout k 1 0 may comprises phases of 0 216 72 288 and 144 aligned to reference clock .

Particular embodiments can enable phase interpolation with a resolution higher than a number of phases available for the ring VCO . In particular embodiments delta sigma modulator may over sample control code . That is delta sigma modulator in conjunction with one hot encoder may convert an n bit control code into a k bit wide coupling control signal wherein n k. Assuming for the purpose of illustration control code is 6 bit long and control code is 4 bit wide. If control code has a value of abcd00 wherein a b c and d are of binary values then coupling control code may have a value of abcd for most of the time. If control code has a value of abcd01 then the value of coupling control code may fluctuate between abcd e.g. for every three out of four samples of control code and abcd 1 e.g. for every one of four samples of control code . By selectively coupling one or more output signals to reference clock over a period of time particular embodiments may cause a phase in between two adjacent phases of ring VCO to be injection locked to reference clock .

Particular embodiments may also allow for rotation of control codes of a phase interpolator which is often used in plesiochronous communication systems. For example a reference clock of a receiving circuit of a plesiochronous communication system may be slightly different e.g. within a few hundred parts per million than a reference clock of a transmitting circuit of the plesiochronous communication system. Particular embodiments may allow rotation of control codes of a phase interpolator of a clock data recovery circuit in order to track a moving phase of transmitted data.

Herein reference to a computer readable non transitory storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive another suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

