---

title: Strap restraining system for child care devices
abstract: Apparatus and systems for securing safety restraints of child care devices for the insertion or removal of a child from the child care devices. A strap restraint device for securing one or more straps of a child care device includes a body portion. The body portion is configured to secure one or more straps of the child care device when the straps are draped over the body portion. The strap restraint device also includes an attachment device, which comprises means for removably securing the body portion to the child care device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08985697&OS=08985697&RS=08985697
owner: 
number: 08985697
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120507
---
This application is a non provisional of and claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 484 014 filed on May 9 2011 entitled CAR SEAT STRAP RESTRAINING SYSTEM which application is hereby expressly incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of securing safety restraints on child care devices.

Child care devices e.g. car seats strollers carriers boosters bouncers swings etc. have become popular for transporting and entertaining children. Child care devices typically incorporate safety restraint mechanisms e.g. harnesses straps etc. that are configured to secure children within the devices. While safety restraints are integral to protecting children during the use of child care devices safety restraints present several drawbacks. For example safety restraints often impede the insertion of children into and the removal of children from child care devices. As such safety restraints can cause discomfort for children and inconvenience for caregivers. Moreover many safety restraints that are employed by child care devices incorporate rigid members e.g. fasteners buckles etc. that when misaligned have the potential to injure children during insertion into and or removal from child care devices.

One problem with existing systems for example is that safety restraints e.g. straps have a tendency to fall towards the center of child care devices where the child is typically positioned due in part to the effects of gravity on the safety restraints and on any attached members e.g. fasteners buckles etc. . For example illustrates a child s car seat and carrier that includes straps and buckles for restraining a child during use of the car seat. As depicted when no child is in the car seat the straps and buckles naturally fall within the center region of the car seat. The straps and buckles therefore often get in the way of a child being properly inserted into the car seat.

While holding the child in one hand a caregiver may use his or her other hand to move the straps and buckles out the way and then carefully and quickly insert the child into the car seat i.e. between the straps and buckles before the straps and buckles are able to fall back into the center region of the car seat. However the straps and buckles often fall back into the center region of the car seat before the caregiver is able to fully insert the child. As such the caregiver must again move the straps and buckles this time out from underneath the child before finally fastening the child into the car seat.

This process can be extremely difficult and inconvenient for the caregiver particularly when the child is being uncooperative and can cause significant discomfort for the child. Furthermore because buckles or any other type of fastening device may have abrupt edges and are typically hard often being made of metal and or hard plastics buckles may even cause injury to the child. In either case the foregoing process can involve an undesired amount of time and can often upset the child which further complicates use of existing child care devices.

Likewise when removing the child from the car seat the straps and buckles can also be problematic. For instance after unfastening the straps and buckles from the child and attempting to remove the child from the car seat it is not uncommon for a child s arm or leg to get caught within the straps and buckles that remain resting on the child after they are unfastened. This can cause additional inconvenience discomfort and the possibility of injury.

The present invention extends to apparatus and systems for securing straps or other safety restraints of child care devices such as car seats strollers bouncers etc. In particular the present invention extends to apparatus and systems that are configured to provide a resting object comprising a protrusion from the child care device and onto which a caregiver can temporarily loosely drape straps or other safety restraints while inserting a child into or removing the child from the child care device. As such embodiments of the present invention provide a quick and convenient mechanism for holding safety restraints out of the way when using child care devices.

One embodiment of a strap restraint device for securing one or more straps of a child care device includes a body portion that is configured to restrain or secure one or more straps of the child care device when the straps are draped over the body portion. The body portion also includes one or more features for providing sensory stimulus to a child. The strap restraint device also includes an attachment device which comprises means for removably securing the body portion to the child care device.

In another embodiment the strap restraint device includes a body portion which is configured to secure one or more straps of the child care device when the one or more straps are loosely positioned around the body portion. The strap restraint device also includes a first attachment portion that is configured to affix to the child care device. The first attachment portion includes one or more first fastening mechanisms that are configured to removably secure to one or more second fastening mechanisms. The strap restraint device also includes a second attachment portion that is affixed to the body portion. The second attachment portion includes the one or more second fastening mechanisms.

In yet another embodiment the strap restraint system includes a first strap restraint device which is configured to temporarily restrain one or more first straps of the child care device to a first side of the child care device. The first strap restraint device includes a first body that comprises one or more features for providing sensory stimulus to a child and that is configured to temporarily restrain the one or more first straps to the first side of the child care device when the one or more first straps are draped around the first body. The first strap restraint device also includes a first fastening mechanism which includes a first corresponding portion that is configured to affix to the first body and a second corresponding portion that is configured to affix to the first side of the child care device. The first corresponding portion and the second corresponding portion of the first fastening mechanism are configured to removably affix to one another.

The exemplary strap restraint system also includes a second strap restraint device which is configured to temporarily restrain one or more second straps of the child care device to a second side of the child care device. The second strap restraint device includes a second body that comprises one or more features for providing sensory stimulus to the child and that is configured to temporarily restrain the one or more second straps to the second side of the child care device when the one or more second straps are draped around the second body. The second strap restraint device also includes a second fastening mechanism which includes a first corresponding portion that is configured to affix to the second body and a second corresponding portion that is configured to affix to the second side of the child care device. The first corresponding portion and the second corresponding portion of the second fastening mechanism are configured to removably affix to one another.

These and other objects and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention extends to apparatus and systems for securing straps or other safety restraints of child care devices such as car seats strollers bouncers etc. In particular the present invention extends to apparatus and systems that are configured to provide a protrusion onto which a caregiver can temporarily loosely drape straps or other safety restraints while inserting a child into or removing the child from a child care device. As such embodiments of the present invention can provide a quick and convenient mechanism for holding safety restraints out of the way when using child care devices and that can also be used to distract and or entertain a child.

The embodiments disclosed herein therefore can alleviate or even eliminate the discomfort and inconvenience caused to children and or caregivers as children are inserted into or removed from a child care device containing safety restraints. Furthermore embodiments disclosed herein can reduce the contact that children have with safety restraints during insertion into and removal from child care devices. Since safety restraints often include potentially dangerous fastening members e.g. buckles zippers buttons clips the embodiments described herein can greatly diminish the possibility of causing injury to the child during use of child care devices.

Embodiments of the invention are described and illustrated herein primarily in connection with a child car seat and carrier. It will be appreciated however that embodiments of the invention can be applied to any device that incorporates safety restraints straps harnesses etc. whether in the context of child care devices or other devices.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide one or more restraining devices for temporarily securing holding or otherwise displacing safety restraints e.g. straps harnesses including any fastening members e.g. buckles zippers buttons clips of child care devices while inserting a child into or removing a child from the child care devices.

Turning briefly to illustrates the car seat of but includes two strap restraint devices and that have been attached to either side of the car seat. As depicted the first strap restraint device is attached to a first side of the car seat and secures a first strap . Similarly the second strap restraint device is attached to a second side of the car seat and secures a second strap . As depicted straps and drape around the strap restraint devices so that they rest loosely around restraint devices and respectively.

To position straps into the position depicted in a caregiver may use a single hand to lift each strap up and over the corresponding strap restraint devices and . Similarly the caregiver may use a single hand to remove straps from strap restraint devices and . Of course the caregiver may use both hands to position straps and if desired but the caregiver might use a single hand to manipulate the strap when the caregiver is holding a child with the other hand.

It is noted that once secured to the child care device strap restraint devices and restrain straps and without the need to feed thread or otherwise position straps and through any portion of strap restraint devices and . This can also be done without having to further manipulate any portion of strap restraint devices and . Instead the caregiver can simply and position straps and with a simple and straightforward repositioning of straps and loosely over strap restraint devices and

Notably the current invention provides improvements over prior art systems which require a degree of manual dexterity and manipulation of the operative restraining devices to effectively tie down or affix the straps into a desired displacement. The improvements of the invention are particularly noticeable when realizing the ease with which the straps can simply be looped up an over the inventive restraint devices to connect the buckles of the straps or to otherwise secure the straps around a child after the child is placed in the device. In contrast prior art systems often require the user to perform several steps to loosen or unsecure the straps from the restraint devices before the straps can be used to secure the child.

The inventive restraint devices are also configured to be interchangeable to accommodate many different needs and preferences in different circumstances and at different times. Other prior art systems fail to provide this type of interchangeability and functionality.

According to some embodiments a plurality of different restraint devices having different configurations are provided with and or packaged with the seat or other child care devices at the point of sale to thereby provide for the aforementioned interchangeability. In some embodiments different restraint devices are provided individually or in kits that package one or more types of different restraint devices together. The scope of the invention therefore extends not only to the restraint devices but also to products that incorporate or utilize one or more of the restraint devices. In fact the scope of the invention also extends to child care devices that are configured with attachment devices described below or any portion of the attachment devices described herein.

Returning to body portion of strap restraint device may comprise virtually any combination of shape s and material s . In some embodiments body portion comprises a shape and material that is configured to increase friction between body portion and restraints of the child care device. For example body portion may comprise a soft fuzzy material e.g. felt plush etc. and a generally spherical shape which can enhance the frictional coefficient between restraints and the body portion more effectively than would occur with some other shapes and some other materials. However any shape can be used including cubes or other rectangular type shapes balls or other spherical or rounded shapes conical shapes prism shapes animal shapes toy shapes and or any combination of these or other shapes. The sizes of the shapes can also vary from small objects having a diameter of less than one inch to objects having a diameter of greater than three inches. However in many instances the body portion will have a diameter that falls roughly within the range of about one inch to about three inches. It will also be appreciated that the body portion can be hollow or solid and have different weights and densities.

In some embodiments body portion comprises a shape and material that is configured to hold the interest of to educate or to otherwise entertain a child that is positioned in the child care device. As such body portion can include decorations toys or any other item that would provide tactile visual audible or any other sensory stimulus to a child. For example body portion can take the form of a figurine a ball a car etc. In some embodiments body portion takes a plush form e.g. a stuffed animal or figurine such as the depicted duck which provides both sensory stimuli to a child and a high fictional coefficient against a restraint device. Body portion can include any other components as well which may be designed to provide additional sensory stimuli such as bells pictures speakers lights and the like. In some embodiments the body portion includes sensors that detect motion touch or other interaction so as to responsively provide the additional sensory stimuli.

As indicated above body portion can comprise many different shape material combinations. Keeping with the context of child safety devices for example body portion can comprise objects that provide additional functional utility such as containers e.g. to hold snacks to hold cleaning wipes etc. entertainment devices e.g. music devices games puzzles mirrors etc. lighting devices baby monitoring devices identification devices tracking devices medical devices etc.

Attachment device shown in as comprising elements and can include any appropriate means for securing body portion to a child care device. In some embodiments attachment device comprises means for removably securing or detachably connecting body portion to a child care device. When body portion is detachably connected to the child care device body portion can be easily cleaned can be used on a plurality child care devices and can serve other functions when not being used to secure restraints of the child care device. For example if body portion comprises a toy or other item that would provide sensory stimulus to a child body portion can be selectively removed so that the child can play with and be entertained by body portion while the child uses the child care device.

Within the context of means for removably securing body portion to a child care device attachment device may comprise hook and loop fasteners e.g. Velcro buttons zippers snaps ribbons knots magnets clamps clasps and like. For example illustrates attachment device as comprising a hook and loop fastener. As depicted one half of the fastener can form a first attachment portion that is can be affixed to the child care device and the other half of the fastener can form a second attachment portion that is affixed to body portion . As such first attachment portion and second attachment portion are usable to removably connect body portion to child care devices.

Other embodiments of attachment device can comprise snap style fasteners not shown such as a snap style button that might be commonly found on a shirt. For example a first part of a snap e.g. male portion may be attached to the child care device and a second part of the snap e.g. a female portion may be attached to body portion or vice versa . Thus when snapped together the snap attaches body portion to the child care device.

In some embodiments attachment device comprises means for permanently securing body portion to a child care device. For example means for permanently securing body portion to a child care device may include stitching gluing riveting screwing bolting and the like. In some embodiments body portion may be integral to the structure of the child care device itself and can for example be molded into a frame or other structure of the child care device. In some embodiments the body portion is sewn into a fabric cover for the child care device.

As disclosed embodiments of the invention can be used to improve safety comfort and convenience for manipulating safety restraints e.g. harnesses or straps of different child care devices. In particular embodiments disclosed herein provide one or more restraint devices for securing harnesses or straps when a caregiver is inserting and or removing a child from the child care device. While the foregoing description and Figures included a specific embodiment in the context of a child s car seat one will appreciate that the embodiments described herein extend to any child care devices that incorporates safety restraints that may get in the way when inserting or removing a child from the child care device. Furthermore embodiments can extend beyond the scope of child care devices entirely to include any context in which safety restraints e.g. harnesses or straps are used.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

