---

title: Methods and devices for providing a wallpaper viewfinder
abstract: Methods and electronic devices for providing a wallpaper viewfinder are described. In one aspect, a method includes: receiving image data from a camera of the electronic device; displaying a viewfinder for the camera on a display of the electronic device based on the image data; identifying a subject in the image data; and overlaying one or more interface element representations on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject, the interface element representations depicting interface elements associated with a graphical user interface of the electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047795&OS=09047795&RS=09047795
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09047795
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120323
---
The present disclosure relates to electronic devices having cameras and more particularly to methods and electronic devices for providing a wallpaper viewfinder.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are equipped with graphical user interfaces GUIs to provide the user with an interface to interact with the electronic devices. A GUI is a type of user interface that allows a user to interact with an electronic device utilizing images rather than text commands. A GUI may include various interface elements such as buttons and icons which may be selected by a user. For example an electronic device may include a desktop or home GUI as the main GUI to interact with the electronic device.

A GUI such as a desktop or home GUI often includes a wallpaper as a background for the GUI. A wallpaper is an image used as a background for a GUI. Electronic devices often allow a user to change the wallpaper of a GUI. For example a user may set the wallpaper to an image that is aesthetically pleasing or memorable to the user. However an image that is set as a wallpaper may not appear optimally to a user. For example the interface elements associated with the GUI may unsuitably interfere with the image when the image is used as a wallpaper.

In one aspect the present application describes a processor implemented method for providing a wallpaper viewfinder on an electronic device. The method includes receiving image data from a camera of the electronic device displaying a viewfinder for the camera on a display of the electronic device based on the image data identifying a subject in the image data and overlaying one or more interface element representations on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject the interface element representations depicting interface elements associated with a graphical user interface of the electronic device.

In another aspect the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a memory a display and a camera. The electronic device also includes a processor coupled with the memory the display and the camera. The processor is configured to receive image data from the camera display a viewfinder for the camera on the display of the electronic device based on the image data identify a subject in the image and overlay one or more interface element representations on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject the interface element representations depicting interface elements associated with a graphical user interface of the electronic device.

In yet another aspect the present application describes a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium has stored thereon computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions include instructions for receiving image data from a camera displaying a viewfinder for the camera on a display of an electronic device based on the image data identifying a subject in the image and overlaying one or more interface elements representations on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject the interface element representations depicting interface elements associated with a graphical user interface of the electronic device.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various example embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a camera a microphone a keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range wireless communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The electronic device may include a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter . The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In at least some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback i.e. touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

The electronic device includes a camera . The camera is capable of capturing camera data such as images in which case the camera data may be referred to as image data in the form of still photo and or motion data. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with the camera .

The camera may be configured as a front facing camera or a rear facing camera. A front facing camera is provided by a camera which is located to obtain images near a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a main display is mounted. That is when a front facing camera is provided on the electronic device the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the cameras is directed.

The camera of the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. For example the camera may be located centrally above the display .

A rear facing camera is provided by a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . The rear face is typically a face which does not include the main display of the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the display of the electronic device may act as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with a rear facing camera. In such example embodiments the electronic device may include various operating modes for the viewfinder for example in one operating mode the electronic device provides a wallpaper viewfinder .

The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The field of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

While illustrates a single camera the electronic device may include a plurality of cameras . For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include both a front facing camera and a rear facing camera.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information image data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory.

The electronic device may in at least some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may be configured to display a Graphical User Interface GUI to provide a user with an interface to interact with the electronic device . A GUI is a type of user interface that allows a user to interact with the electronic device utilizing images. A GUI may include various interface elements for example a button icon text hyperlink etc. which may be selected by a user using an input interface . In at least some example embodiments an interface element may be a shortcut for accessing an application. That is a selection of the interface element may cause the electronic device to execute an associated application . For example a selection of a Microsoft Word interface element may execute the Microsoft Word application by Microsoft Corp.

The operating system may be configured to display a main GUI such as a desktop or home GUI to allow a user to interact with the electronic device . A desktop GUI provides a comprehensive user interface. The desktop GUI may be displayed by default during the operation of the electronic device and may provide an environment for a user to interact with the electronic device . Example desktop GUIs may include Microsoft Windows by Microsoft Corp. Android by Google Blackberry OS by Research in Motion iOS by Apple OS X Lion by Apple Inc. etc.

A GUI such as a desktop GUI may include a wallpaper as a background. A wallpaper is an image used as a background for a GUI. The operating system may allow a user to configure the wallpaper of the GUI. That is a user may add delete and or modify a wallpaper of a GUI based on the user s preference. For example a user may set the wallpaper of a GUI to an image of the user s family or another image which is pleasing to the user.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and it will be appreciated that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The processor may be electrically connected to the camera to allow the processor to receive electronic signals representing camera data from the camera .

In at least some example embodiments the software modules may include one or more camera applications or software modules which are configured for handling the electronic signals representing camera data from the camera . The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time images defined in the electronic signals received from the camera . The camera application may also be configured to capture images or videos by storing images or videos defined by the electronic signals received from the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to store the images or videos to memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . The images may be stored in various formats including JPEG RAW BMP etc.

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or shutter speed associated with the camera . The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the camera application based on output received from a light exposure meter.

The camera application may in various example embodiments control any one or more of a number of various camera related features and options. For example in at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the camera and or to control a zoom associated with the camera . In at least some example embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some example embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application may in at least some example embodiments provide image stabilization for the camera . Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the camera .

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the camera on a subject i.e. an identifiable item such as an individual or thing . For example the camera application may be configured to control actuators of the camera to move lenses a lens may be comprised of one or more lens elements in the camera relative to an image sensor in the camera . For example when capturing images of subject which are very far from the camera the camera application may control the actuators to cause the actuators to move the lenses away from the image sensor i.e. to magnify the subject .

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may provide for auto focusing capabilities. For example the camera application may analyze received electronic signals to determine whether the images captured by the camera are in focus. That is the camera application may determine whether the images defined by electronic signals received from the camera are focused properly on the subject of such images. The camera application may for example make this determination based on the sharpness of such images. If the camera application determines that the images are not in focus then the camera application may cause the processor to adjust the actuators which controls the lenses to focus the images.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may provide various operating modes for operating the camera . For example in one operating mode the camera application may enable the electronic device to provide a wallpaper viewfinder for the camera . In some embodiments the wallpaper viewfinder may be provided within a selectable operating mode which may be referred to as a wallpaper viewfinder mode. In at least some embodiments a user may input an instruction to the electronic device via an input interface which instructs the electronic device to enter the wallpaper viewfinder mode. In response to receiving such an instruction the electronic device may change its active operating mode to the wallpaper viewfinder mode.

In at least some example embodiments in the wallpaper viewfinder operating mode the camera application may receive real time image data from the camera of the electronic device . In response to receiving the image data the camera application may display a viewfinder for the camera on a display of the electronic device based on the received image data. The camera application may be configured to identify a subject in the image data and to overlay one or more interface element representations on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject the interface element representations may depict interface elements associated with a GUI of the electronic device .

Accordingly the wallpaper viewfinder may facilitate the acquisition of an image to be used as wallpaper. That is the wallpaper viewfinder may allow a user to preview image data from a camera as wallpaper for a GUI of the electronic device. That is the wallpaper viewfinder allows a user to observe the appearance of a GUI if image data from the camera were to be used as a wallpaper for the GUI.

In at least some embodiments the wallpaper viewfinder mode may be configured to automatically arrange one or more features of the GUI such as one or more interface elements when displaying the preview of the image data as wallpaper. For example the electronic device may identify an important feature of the image such as a subject of the image and may automatically rearrange GUI features so that such features do not conflict with the identified important feature. For example icons or other interface elements may be rearranged so they do not cover the subject of the image.

Specific functions and features of the camera application will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

While the embodiment discussed above includes a processor coupled with a camera application which collectively act as an image signal processor to provide image related functions such as auto focusing in other example embodiments not shown another processor such as a dedicated image signal processor may provide some or all of these functions.

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the camera application . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the camera application may be performed by one or more other applications. For example in at least some example embodiments the identification and or overlay functions which will be described below in greater detail with reference to may be performed by other applications.

Further while the camera application has been illustrated as a stand alone application in other example embodiments the camera application may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore in at least some example embodiments the functions of the camera application may be provided by a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone .

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

Referring now to the example smartphone also includes a rear facing camera on a rear side of the smartphone . That is the rear facing camera is located on a side of the smartphone which does not include the display . The rear facing camera is located so that it may capture images of subject which are located in the rear of and or surrounding the rear side of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the display on the front side of the electronic device acts as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with the rear facing camera on the rear side of the electronic device . In such example embodiments the electronic device may include various operating modes for the viewfinder. For example in one operating mode the display may act as a wallpaper viewfinder displaying image data associated with the camera along with interface element representations depicting interface elements associated with a GUI of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the smartphone may also include a front facing camera instead of or in addition to the rear facing camera . The front facing camera may be located on the front side of the smart phone . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of subjects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

Reference will now be made to in which an example method of providing a wallpaper viewfinder is illustrated in flowchart form. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

At the electronic device receives real time image data from a camera of the electronic device . That is the electronic device obtains image data in real time from the camera .

In at least some embodiments the real time image data is received when an operating mode such as a wallpaper viewfinder mode of the electronic device is selected. For example the camera may be enabled in the camera operating mode to acquire real time image data. That is the camera may be operating to acquire image data of a subject which is viewable by the camera . The camera may acquire real time image data of subjects that are within the line of sight of the camera . For example for a rear facing camera as illustrated in the camera may acquire real time image data of a subject which is located in the rear area of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments the wallpaper viewfinder mode may be selected in response to receiving an instruction to enable the wallpaper viewfinder mode. The instruction may be received for example from an input interface associated with the electronic device . For example the instruction may be received from a navigational input device such as a trackball a trackpad or a touchscreen display or a physical keyboard associated with the electronic device . In response to receiving such an instruction the electronic device may provide the wallpaper viewfinder mode e.g. may be performed in response to receiving an instruction to enable the wallpaper viewfinder mode .

At the electronic device displays a viewfinder for the camera based on the image data. For example the display of the electronic device may operate as a viewfinder based on the image data. The viewfinder allows a user to view the field of view of the camera to allow the user to frame and focus an image. The viewfinder may display the effects of configuration features such as zooming focusing etc. when capturing an image of the subject . That is a viewfinder is displayed on the display based on the received real time image data.

The electronic device may identify one or more important features in the image data. For example at the electronic device may identify a subject in the image data. For example the electronic device may analyze the image data to identify a subject. The subject of the image may be a person or thing that the image is meant to capture. For example the subject of the image may be a person or thing which the image is focussed on.

In at least some example embodiments analyzing at may include identifying one or more boundaries associated with the subject in the image data. For example a subject may include a person within an image which may for example have a landscape as the background . The electronic device may identify the boundaries of the person within the image of the landscape. The boundaries may in at least some example embodiments represent a perimeter of a subject. That is the boundary may be a continuous line which forms the boundary of a geometric figure i.e. the subject .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may identify boundaries associated with the subject by performing image segmentation. Image segmentation is a process of partitioning an image defined by electronic signals into multiple segments such as pixels a pixel is the smallest unit of an image that can be represented and is a sample of the image. Each pixel has its own address and the address may correspond to its coordinates in relation to the image . A label is assigned to every segment in the image such that same labels share certain visual characteristics for example colour intensity texture depth etc. The image segmentation results in a set of segments that collectively cover the entire image. Each of the segments within a set are similar with respect to a certain visual characteristic resulting in differentiating sets of visual characteristics within the image. The differentiating sets may be used to locate boundaries of a subject in the image. For example in performing image segmentation the electronic device may identify the region of a subject i.e. the region encompassing the perimeter of a subject as having a different set of visual characteristic than the rest of the regions of the image.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may perform edge detection in order to identify one or more boundaries associated with the subject. Edge detection is a process of identifying points in an image at which the image brightness has discontinuities. Discontinuities in the image brightness may correspond to discontinuities in depth illumination etc. of the image. Identification of the points may result in connecting lines that indicate the boundaries of a subject in an image as the boundaries are areas often associated with discontinuities in image brightness in an image. For example in performing edge detection the electronic device may identify the boundaries i.e. the perimeter of a subject within an image as having discontinuities in image brightness in relation to other portions of the image.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may identify a subject in an image by analyzing the image data to identify facial features associated with the subject in the image data. That is the electronic device may perform face detection in order to identify facial features associated with the subject.

Face detection is a process of determining the location and size of a human face in an image. Face detection may detect facial features associated with a subject in an image and ignore the remaining portions of the image. In performing face detection the electronic device may search the image for a human face and may identify any located human faces within the image.

After identifying a subject in the image data the electronic device at overlays one or more interface element representations associated with a GUI on a portion of the displayed viewfinder which does not contain the identified subject. That is the electronic device overlays interface element representations such as icons etc. for the GUI on the viewfinder so that the interface element representations do not interfere with the identified subject.

For example the electronic device may vary the position of one or more interface element representations on the displayed viewfinder by moving removing and or swapping one or more interface element representations. The location of the interface element representations may be varied to ensure that an identified subject is not covered or minimally covered by interface element representations. That is the subject is displayed on the viewfinder without being obscured or minimally obscured by one or more interface element representations.

The interface element representations depict interface elements associated with a GUI of the electronic device. That is the interface element representations are associated with corresponding interface elements on a GUI. The interface element representations may have the same graphical features and may initially occupy the same relative position on a displayed viewfinder in relation to the corresponding interface elements on a displayed GUI. That is the positions of the interface elements on the GUI may provide a starting point when overlaying interface element representations on a viewfinder when providing the wallpaper viewfinder. As noted above the actual positions of the interface element representations overlaid on the viewfinder may vary from these starting positions to ensure that interface element representations do not conflict with important features of the image in the viewfinder.

In at least some example embodiments the interface elements are icons providing shortcuts for accessing applications websites and or files. Interface element representations may visually represent the interface elements. For example where an interface element is an icon a corresponding interface element representation may depict the icon.

In at least some example embodiments the interface element representations are selectable. That is the interface element representations may be selected to perform a function. For example if an interface element representation is associated with a corresponding interface element icon that is a shortcut for accessing an application then a selection of the interface element representation may access the associated application. In such embodiments the interface element representations effectively act as the interface elements. Accordingly in some such embodiments the interface element representations may be the interface elements themselves.

However in at least some example embodiments the interface element representations are not selectable. That is the interface elements may not be selected and are not associated with any functions. In such example embodiments the interface element representations are simply graphical features which depict the interface elements but which do not themselves act as interface elements.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may automatically overlay the interface element representations on the viewfinder. That is the electronic device overlays the interface element representations without the need for further user input. However in other example embodiments further input is required from a user via an input interface in order to overlay the interface element representations. For example in at least some example embodiments prior to overlaying a prompt may be presented via an output interface such as a display requesting confirmation to overlay the interface element representations. When confirmation is received by a user via an input interface such as a navigational input device the interface element representations are overlaid.

After overlaying in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may receive an instruction to capture an image. The instruction may be received by an input interface associated with the electronic device . For example the instruction may be received by a navigational input device such as a trackball a trackpad or a touchscreen display or a physical keyboard associated with the electronic device to instruct the electronic device to capture an image.

In response to receiving the instruction the electronic device captures an image with the camera . That is the electronic device causes the camera to capture image data in response to a receipt of an instruction for example from a user to capture an image. For example the electronic device may capture an image of a subject that is viewed on the viewfinder.

The electronic device in at least some example embodiments may display the captured image as a wallpaper on a GUI. That is the captured image may be configured as a wallpaper on a GUI of the electronic device . For example the captured image of a subject may be configured as a wallpaper on a desktop GUI of the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the captured image displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI may appear the same as the image displayed on the viewfinder prior to capturing the image. For example the position of the interface elements on the GUI may be varied according to the varied corresponding interface element representations. That is the interface elements may be displayed as the interface element representations were displayed during the overlaying of the interface element representations at e.g. the interface elements may be given the same positions and arrangement as the interface element representations were given at . Accordingly the image displayed as a wallpaper may not be obscured or may be minimally obscured by the interface elements such as icons .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may automatically display the captured image as a wallpaper on a GUI. That is the electronic device displays the captured image as a wallpaper in response to receiving an instruction to capture an image without the need for further input from a user. However in other example embodiments further user input is required from a user via an input interface in order to display the captured image as a wallpaper. For example in response to capturing the image a prompt may be presented via an output interface such as a display to request confirmation to display the captured image as a wallpaper on a GUI of the electronic device . When confirmation is received by a user via an input interface such as a navigational input device the captured image is displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI of the electronic device .

In at least some example embodiments when the image is displayed as wallpaper on the GUI the interface elements of the GUI may be arranged in the same manner that their associated interface element representations were arranged when the image was captured. That is the arrangement of the interface element representations affects the arrangement of the interface elements when the captured image is displayed as wallpaper. The interface elements may reflect the manipulations made to the interface element representations.

In at least some example embodiments the captured image may be stored in the memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device .

As noted above after identifying a subject in the image data the electronic device may overlay one or more interface element representations on image data obtained from a camera to provide a wallpaper viewfinder. Example embodiments of such overlaying will now be described.

Referring now to a flowchart of an example method of overlaying the interface element representations on a viewfinder is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

The method may include at determining whether a current arrangement of the interface element representations would interfere with the identified subject if the interface element representations were overlaid on the viewfinder. For example the electronic device may check whether the current arrangement of interface elements on the GUI would cause one or more interface elements representations to cover or partially cover the identified subject. The identified subject is displayed on a viewfinder in real time along with the interface element representations. Accordingly the electronic device checks if the identified subject would be obscured by an interface element representation displayed on the viewfinder.

As noted above the identified subject may be identified by one or more features of image segmentation edge detection and or face detection etc. In at least some example embodiments based on the feature performed to identify the subject the electronic device may accordingly determine if an interface element representation would interfere with the identified subject. For example if face detection is performed to identify facial features of the subject the electronic device may check if an interface element representation covers or partially covers the identified face of the subject. In another example if image segmentation or edge detection is performed to identify boundaries associated with the subject the electronic device may check if an interface element representation covers or partially covers the identified subject along the defined boundaries.

At if it is determined that the current arrangement of the interface element representations would interfere with the identified subject the electronic device may manipulate the current arrangement of the interface element representations to provide a new arrangement of the interface element representations which does not interfere with the identified subject. For example if the electronic device determines that an interface element covers or partially covers the identified subject the electronic device may change the position of the interface element representation covering or partially covering the identified subject on the viewfinder. This change in position of the interface element representations defines a new arrangement of the interface element representations. The interface element representation covering or partially covering the identified subject may be moved or removed from the viewfinder so that the subject may no longer be obscured by the interface element representation. That is the subject may be viewed on the viewfinder without being obstructed by any interface element representations overlaid on the viewfinder.

After manipulating the current arrangement of the interface element representations the electronic device at may display the interface element representations on the viewfinder in accordance with the new arrangement of the interface element representations which does not interfere with the identified subject . That is the subject is displayed on the viewfinder without being covered or partially covered by any interface element representations overlaid on the viewfinder. The subject displayed on the display in the wallpaper viewfinder mode is not interfered with by an interface element representation. The new arrangement of the interface element representations may include interface element representations overlaying portions surrounding the subject on the viewfinder but may not overlay the subject itself 

The interface element representations depict interface elements associated with a GUI such as the desktop GUI of the electronic device . That is an interface element representation overlaid on the viewfinder may be associated with a corresponding interface element on a GUI. The interface element representation may have the same graphical features and may occupy the same relative position on the displayed viewfinder in relation to the corresponding interface element on a displayed GUI e.g. the electronic device may map the interface elements on the GUI with the interface elements on the viewfinder . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the new arrangement of the interface element representations may define the corresponding arrangement of the interface elements when the image is displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI. That is the image displayed on the viewfinder with the overlaid new arrangement of the interface element representations may appear the same as the image when displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI with the corresponding re arranged interface elements.

Example viewfinders will now be discussed with reference to . shows an example electronic device . The example electronic device may be of the type described above with reference to . In the example electronic device includes a viewfinder on the display . The viewfinder displays an image and interface element representations . The image may be an image viewed by a camera of the smartphone and displayed in real time or near real time on the display to provide a viewfinder . The viewfinder includes an image and overlaid interface element representations . The image includes an identified subject and a background for example in the example illustrated a car is the identified subject and a road and the remaining portion of the image form the background . The identified subject may be defined by boundaries which separate the subject from the background of the image displayed on the viewfinder .

The interface element representations are overlaid on the viewfinder and in the example embodiment illustrated interfere with portions of the displayed image for example a video icon interface element representation interferes with the identified subject i.e. the car and a message icon interface element representation and music icon interface element representation interferes with a portion of the background . The interface element representations may depict interface elements associated with a GUI for example desktop GUI of the electronic device . For example the interface element representations on the viewfinder may be mapped with interface elements for example icons on a GUI of the electronic device so that the interface elements displayed on the GUI are displayed in locations that correspond to the locations of interface element representations displayed on the viewfinder. The interface element representations may or may not be selectable.

The example viewfinder of depicts the viewfinder prior to any form of manipulation of the interface element representations for example the video icon interface element representation is interfering with the identified subject and obscuring the view of the identified subject . That is the example viewfinder illustrates how the viewfinder might appear if the interface element representations were not manipulated to avoid interfering with the subject of the image.

Referring now to an example electronic device is again illustrated. The example electronic device may be of the type described above with reference to . In the example electronic device includes a viewfinder on the display . The viewfinder displays an image and interface element representations on the electronic device . The new viewfinder depicts a viewfinder after manipulation of the interface element representations . That is the viewfinder depicts a viewfinder after an arrangement of the interface element representations such as the arrangement shown in is manipulated to form a new arrangement of the interface element representations 

As noted above in performing the overlaying function for example in the manner described above with reference to the electronic device may manipulate the interface element representations so that the interface element representations do not interfere with the identified subject .

In at least some example embodiments manipulating may include moving one or more interface element representations within a current arrangement of the interface element representations . For example an interface element representation that is determined to be interfering with the identified subject may be moved from a location on the viewfinder to a new location on the new viewfinder . That is the interface element representation that is interfering with the identified subject is moved to no longer cover or partially cover the identified subject . For example an interface element representation such as the video icon which is interfering with a subject such as the car is moved from its previous location as depicted on the viewfinder of to a new location as depicted on the new viewfinder of . That is the moved interface element representation no longer interferes with the subject. Interface element representations that do not interfere with the identified subject may not be moved for example the message icon interface element representation and music icon interface element representation are not moved as they do not interfere with the car . Accordingly the new arrangement of the interface element representations displayed on the new viewfinder does not obstruct the view of the identified subject and the identified subject is viewable on the new viewfinder .

As noted above the interface element representations may depict interface elements associated with a GUI. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the new arrangement of the interface element representations displayed on the new viewfinder may define the corresponding arrangement of the interface elements when the image is displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI. That is the viewfinder with the overlaid new arrangement of the interface element representations may display a true representation of a GUI which is subsequently displayed with a wallpaper based on the image . For example a video icon interface element that may be associated with the video icon interface element representation may be moved accordingly on the GUI based on the moved video icon interface element representation displayed on the new viewfinder .

In at least some example embodiments manipulating may include removing one or more interface element representations from the current arrangement of the interface element representations . For example an interface element representation that is determined to be interfering with the identified subject may be removed from the overlaid interface element representations on the new viewfinder . That is the interfering interface element representation is no longer displayed on the new viewfinder in contrast to the previous viewfinder of . The removed interface element representation no longer covers any portion of the identified subject . For example in the example illustrated the video icon interface element representation which is interfering with the identified subject may be removed in the new viewfinder so that it no longer obstructs the view of the car displayed on the new viewfinder .

In at least some example embodiments the new arrangement of interface element representations after performing the removing function may define the corresponding arrangement of the interface elements when the image is displayed as a wallpaper on a GUI. In such example embodiments the one or more interface elements that are associated with the one or more removed interface element representations may be accordingly removed from the GUI for example if the video icon interface element representation is removed the corresponding video icon interface element is removed from the GUI when the image is displayed as a wallpaper. That is the video icon interface element on the displayed GUI is no longer visible . In at least some example embodiments the removed associated interface element may be deleted permanently or non permanently or moved to another location on the electronic device such as a menu .

Referring next to a flowchart of another example method of overlaying the interface element representations on a viewfinder is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the processor of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the processor to perform the method of . It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

The method includes at determining whether one or more interface element representations would interfere with the identified subject if the interface element representations were overlaid on the viewfinder . may be performed in the same manner as which is discussed in greater above with reference to .

At if it is determined that the current arrangement of the interface element representations interferes with the identified subject the electronic device analyzes the graphical features of the interface element representations . For example if the electronic device determines that an interface element representation covers or partially covers the identified subject the electronic device may analyze the graphical features of each of the overlaid interface element representations 

In at least some example embodiments in analyzing the graphical features of the interface element representations the electronic device may analyze one or more of the colour shape boundaries effects or size of the interface element representations . In such example embodiments the graphical features of the interface element representations may be compared to the graphical features of the identified subject . For example the electronic device may compare the level of visual obscurity between an interface element representation and the identified subject based on the graphical features. That is based on the comparison the electronic device may determine that an interface element representation may have a lower higher or same level of obscurity than another interface element representation when the interface element representations are covering or partially covering the identified subject for example with reference to the example viewfinder of the visual features of each of the interface element representations i.e. the video messages music icons etc. are compared to the visual features of the identified subject i.e. the car to determine which interface element representation has the lowest level of obscurity of the identified subject when the interface element representations are covering or partially covering the identified subject for example when placed at the same position as the interface element representation video icon interfering with the car .

After analyzing the graphical features of the interface element representations the electronic device at may swap the one or more interface element representations interfering with the identified subject with one or more interface element representations not interfering with the identified subject based on the graphical features of the interface element representations . For example the position of an interface element representation covering or partially covering the identified subject on the viewfinder is inter changed with an interface element representation not covering the identified subject on the viewfinder based on the graphical feature analysis of the interface element representations 

In at least some example embodiments the interface element representation covering or partially covering the identified subject is swapped with an interface element representation not covering the identified subject that has the lowest level of obscurity of the identified subject as determined when analyzing the graphical features of the interface element representations . For example with reference to the example viewfinder of the video icon interface element representation interfering with the identified subject may be swapped with the music icon interface element representation which is not interfering with the identified subject if the music icon is determined to have the lowest level of obscurity of the identified subject .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

