---

title: Systems and methods for providing investment performance data to investors
abstract: Systems and methods for generating a performance index are described. A rank score is generated for each investor relative to a group of investors of which the investor is a member. Generation of the rank score uses investment data of a portfolio of the investor, and the portfolio comprises at least one investment position. A set of investors is selected from the group of investors, and the selection is based on the rank score of each investor. The performance index is generated to provide a measure of performance of top individual investors over time relative to a market index. Generation of the performance index includes generating a composite portfolio comprising investment positions of each portfolio of each investor of the set of investors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433638&OS=08433638&RS=08433638
owner: E*Trade Financial Corporation
number: 08433638
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120904
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 497 500 filed on Jul. 2 2009 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Investment Performance Data Investors which is a Continuation in part of Ser. No. 12 420 040 and 12 420 043 filed Apr. 7 2009 which claims the benefit of 61 077 852 filed Jul. 2 2008 61 077 853 filed Jul. 2 2008 and 61 167 519 filed Apr. 7 2009 and is hereby incorporated by reference.

The disclosure herein relates generally to information systems. In particular this disclosure relates to gathering and sharing investment and trade data.

Currently individual investor data and the actual performance of individual investor returns are not transparent. There also is no platform that allows for the formal sharing of actual authenticated verifiable individual investment information with others. As a consequence the entire 100 B investment advisory and portfolio management industry and 10 T mutual fund industry have preyed upon investor insecurity and confusion. The lack of a universal standardized set of benchmarks for independent advisors investment managers and mutual fund managers has resulted in billions of dollars in wasted fees annually as individuals fail to meet basic return metrics. Coupled with the popping of the Internet investment bubble corporate scandals Wall Street analyst conflicts of interests etc. many individuals no longer trust professional financial service providers and instead rely on friends and family when making their investment decisions.

Consumer research indicates that friends and family are the most trusted source for investment information and that people by and large do not trust professionals for advice. There are now more than 35 MM active online brokerage accounts and 40 MM American investors who do not rely on a financial advisor to make their important investment decisions. And those who do so are becoming more and more involved in managing their advisors decisions. With nearly 75 of mutual funds underperforming their respective indices after accounting for fees individual investors would have been better off over the past twenty years buying the stocks of the fund companies themselves rather than consuming their services. More new research out of Harvard Business School suggests that the top decile of individual investors consistently beat the market by 4 basis points per day or 10 annually. It is no wonder that the Annual Securities Industry Association Investor Survey found that nearly 70 of surveyed investors believe financial advisors and advisory firms put their own interests ahead of their clients. This sentiment has been steadily and consistently rising since 1999.

There is also strong empirical evidence that suggest that the collective decision making of a group of individuals making guesses about a subject that can be quantified often best expert sentiment. In the book The Wisdom of Crowds by James Surowiecki the author provides many examples that support this theory. The famous example is the finding that the average of a collective of guesses of the number of jellybeans in a jar comes very close to the actual number a better guess than the single best guesses individually. As this relates to the stock market Wharton professor J. Scott Armstrong wrote that he could find no studies that showed an important advantage for expertise over individuals. Marshall Wace a 10 B hedge fund based in the UK has created a proprietary system called TOPS to take advantage of this reality. The firm has created a platform for 1 500 brokers around the world to send in their best investment ideas which Marshall Wace then runs through its proprietary algorithms. Marshall Wace has been one of the top performing hedge funds in the world over the past few years relying on these collective ideas. Last Internet startup PicksPal www.pickspal.com a website that allows its users to guess the outcome of sporting events has uncovered a similar outperformance by a group of its top pickers. PicksPal s overall record against Las Vegas betting lines has been 562 338 a win rate of 63 . In college basketball the win rate is 66 . In pro football the win rate is 62 . They are even getting a 52 win rate in pro hockey. In other words the collective guesses of its top users are besting betting markets.

Consequently there is a need for a system that will eliminate the uncertainty and intimidation around personal investments by automating and formalizing the current practice of shared peer investment advice with actual actionable real time data. Conventional systems used in the investment business have not yet specifically addressed these consumer needs around investment data but there are a few similar and related technologies and services that have focused on aggregating data principally for viewing.

For example the Open Financial Exchange OFX Standard is a specification for the electronic exchange of financial data between financial institutions business and consumers via the Internet. Created by CheckFree Intuit and Microsoft in early 1997 Open Financial Exchange supports a wide range of financial activities including consumer and small business banking consumer and small business bill payment bill presentment tax information and investments tracking including stocks bonds mutual funds and 401 k account details. Open Financial Exchange defines how financial services companies can exchange financial data over the Internet with the users of transactional Web sites thin clients and personal financial software. Open Financial Exchange streamlines the process financial institutions need to connect to multiple customer interfaces processors and systems integrators. The Open Financial Exchange specification is publicly available for implementation by any financial institution or vendor. As of March 2004 OFX is supported by over 2 000 banks and brokerages as well as major payroll processing companies.

Other examples of conventional systems include Quicken and Microsoft Money. These systems are Personal Financial Management software that allow users to download and view their financial information from a variety of accounts. For example Quicken provides access to approximately 2 900 participating financial institutions. Both Quicken and Money allow a user to enter in their username and passwords and automatically download transaction and balance information from those accounts. Further many of these financial institutions allow users to download Web Connect data directly from their sites to users hard drives for importation later.

As yet another example of a conventional system Yodlee provides personalized consumer financial solutions to banks brokerages and portals. Operating predominantly as an Application Service Provider ASP Yodlee has integrated with and provides services for AOL Bank of America Charles Schwab Chase Fidelity Merrill Lynch MSN and Wachovia. The Yodlee solutions are powered by a technology known as Account Aggregation which is built into the Yodlee Platform. This Platform now powers financial service offerings for over 100 financial service providers FSPs and their more than 6 million consumers processing millions of account updates daily in a highly secure scalable reliable way.

These examples show that conventional systems used in the investment business have not yet specifically addressed consumer needs around investment data. Consequently there is a need for a system that helps the now 90 MM and growing individual investors in the U.S. make better smarter and more efficient investment decisions with their 16 T in investable assets using the collective knowledge and actual performance of their peers.

Each patent patent application and or publication mentioned in this specification is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety to the same extent as if each individual patent patent application and or publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

Systems and methods are described below for gathering investment information of peers and or other trusted sources and making the investment information and analysis available on a real time basis. These systems and methods collectively referred to herein as the investment data sharing system IDSS are configured and function to provide investment information and advisory services for individual member investors referred to as members user or subscribers generated through peer research real time portfolio and trading sharing. The IDSS components are configured to consolidate individual member account data from a variety of data sources and then allow those members to share the aggregate data set for the purposes of providing real time information insights and investment recommendations to peers based upon individual performance real time trading activity and summary member data. Specifically members will be able to share current holdings positions that they are watching or thinking about buying or selling and provide real time or near real time notifications of actual transactions. Furthermore the IDSS generates insights into individual member portfolios based on the performance of other individual investors.

The IDSS include components configured to enable or support the collection and sharing of actual investment information among various individual member investors. The investment data includes data of any type of investment vehicle used by the investor including but not limited to data or information of public equities or securities exchange traded funds ETFs mutual funds fixed income and options data. In so doing the IDSS aggregates investment data of members to form a data set that ties historical performance data of actual investors to real time trade data. Aggregation of investment data which includes data on what investments are being made and or considered by members includes pulling fetching and or receiving financial data from the members brokerage accounts or other investment accounts and or receiving data entered directly by a member. The IDSS uses the aggregate data to make inferences and conclusions on the overall market and then directly applies the inferences and conclusions to member portfolios. Thus the IDSS creates asocial network around investment information so that a member can gain access to investment data and performance of other members to whom the member is linked. Further the IDSS provides an automated portfolio management system or service for use in financial or investment services that uses the aggregate data to provide cost effective yet customized investment advice.

The IDSS uses data of members to provide transparency and insights around current holdings asset allocation historical performance risk assessment watch list research and trading activity of the members. Top performers become stars under the IDSS by helping others simply by allowing others access to their investment data. Investment performance is a unique data set because it is an objective metric so called professionals and amateurs can be judged on an even playing field. Once there is a community the IDSS community sharing this information the aggregate data set is an incredibly powerful tool used to identify both high and low performing investors which may likely exist in the close personal network of members. The IDSS thus reduces or eliminates the uncertainty and intimidation around personal investments by automating and formalizing the current practice of shared investment advice with actual actionable real time data from peers.

In the following description numerous specific details are introduced to provide a thorough understanding of and enabling description for embodiments of the IDSS. One skilled in the relevant art however will recognize that these embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other components systems etc. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed embodiments.

An investor is any party that makes an investment. An investor in finance includes the particular types of people and companies that regularly purchase equity or debt securities for financial gain in exchange for funding an expanding company. An investor can purchase and hold assets in hopes of achieving capital gain as a profession and or for short term income.

A security exchange or share market is a corporation or mutual organization that provides facilities for stock brokers and traders to trade company stocks and other securities. Stock exchanges also provide facilities for the issue and redemption of securities as well as other financial instruments and capital events including the payment of income and dividends. The securities traded on a security exchange include shares issued by companies unit trusts and other pooled investment products and bonds. Trading or transactions via a security exchange can be via electronic networks and or at a physical location.

A market service is a real time streaming quote and news service with data direct from stock exchanges. Market service data allows a member to watch market movements in real time. Examples of data or information available from a market service include but are not limited to the following stock and option quotes futures futures options and futures spreads quotes for international and domestic international and domestic futures quotes single stock futures quotes customized watchlists graphical displays and or statistics of trading trends tickers and news of business technology commodities and finance.

The description and examples of the IDSS that follow reference securities as the investment vehicle. The use of a single type of investment securities is only for purposes of simplicity in describing the system and it is understood that securities can be replaced throughout the description herein with any type of investment vehicle used by investors. More specifically for example the investment vehicles contemplated hereunder include public equities exchange traded funds ETFs mutual funds and fixed income and options data to name a few and can further include any other type of investment vehicle not specifically described herein that is appropriate under the description of the IDSS.

The IDSS components can be components of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The IDSS components can also be subcomponents or subsystems of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The IDSS components can be coupled to one or more other components not shown of a host system or a system coupled to the host system.

The IDSS components are configured and function individually and or collectively to provide data products or outputs including investor rankings security ratings risk adjusted portfolio performance and or buy sell recommendations as described in detail below. The IDSS also includes portals and or couplings by which members M MX where X is any number can access the data products relating to their individual accounts or portfolios as well as the accounts or portfolios of members to whom they are linked. The portals and or couplings of an embodiment include for example connections between a member s computer and the IDSS via a web site provided or hosted by the IDSS.

Member access to the IDSS includes links to the accounts and or portfolios of other members and consequently the establishment of social networks around investment information. Therefore the IDSS components are configured to enable a member invited by a friend and or family member e.g. via electronic mail to enter the IDSS and to establish a connection with the inviting member for the purposes of sharing investment information. Members are then able to establish and maintain connections with other peers within the IDSS for the purposes of sharing research insights portfolio investments historical returns. The example shown includes four networks including a first network including linked members M M and M a second network including linked members M and M a third network including linked members M M M and M and a fourth network including linked members M and M. The example shown also includes numerous members M and M MX not linked to any other member. While particular networks are shown for purposes of this example the embodiment is not limited to particular numbers or sizes of networks.

Operations under the IDSS generally include the flow or transfer of data in real time or near real time from third party sources generation of performance feedback and customized recommendations and the establishment of a social network among member investors that enables sharing of the data performance feedback and recommendations. Accordingly the IDSS operations include the flow or transfer of data e.g. historical investment data real time trade data etc. into the system manipulations and calculations relating to the data creating or establishing social networks around investment information generating security ratings generating security recommendations providing sharing of research and investment information that includes members or a collection of members following portfolios providing real time trading notifications and automatically performing trades based on system information to name a few. Each of these operations is described below these operational descriptions are provided as examples only and are not intended to limit embodiments of IDSS to those described.

The IDSS of an embodiment includes and or runs under and or in association with a processing system. The processing system includes any collection of processor based devices or computing devices operating together or components of processing systems or devices as is known in the art. For example the processing system can include one or more of a portable computer portable communication device operating in a communication network and or a network server. The portable computer can be any of a number and or combination of devices selected from among personal computers cellular telephones personal digital assistants portable computing devices and portable communication devices but is not so limited. The processing system can include components within a larger computer system.

The processing system of an embodiment includes at least one processor and at least one memory device or subsystem. The processing system can also include or be coupled to at least one database. The term processor as generally used herein refers to any logic processing unit such as one or more central processing unto CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASIC etc. The processor and memory can be monolithically integrated onto a single chip distributed among a number of chips or components of the IDSS and or provided by some combination of algorithms. The IDSS methods described herein can be implemented in one or more of software algorithm s programs firmware hardware components circuitry in any combination.

The IDSS components can be located together or in separate locations. Communication paths couple the IDSS components and include any medium for communicating or transferring files among the components. The communication paths include wireless connections wired connections and hybrid wireless wired connections. The communication paths also include couplings or connections to networks including local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs proprietary networks interoffice or backend networks and the Internet. Furthermore the communication paths include removable fixed mediums like floppy disks hard disk drives and CD ROM disks as well as flash RAM Universal Serial Bus USB connections RS 232 connections telephone lines buses and electronic mail messages.

The IDSS of an embodiment includes a ranking component a security rating component and a recommendation component as described in detail herein. The basis thr the ranking rating and recommendation components or models of an embodiment is the fundamental assumption that historical out performance by certain individual investors will on average lead to corresponding out performance in the future for some determined amount of time. For example see Coval Joshua D. David Hirshleifer and Tyler Shumway Can Individual Investors Beat the Market Harvard Business School Working Paper No. 04 025 2003 . Thus the top investors as designated by the IDSS and based on a multitude of variables regarding past performance current holdings and real time trading activity will pick stocks that on average will outperform other investors indices of non active investment strategies and professional investment advisors for some period of time. And conversely historically poorer performing individuals will select stocks that on average will under perform these same benchmarks for another period of time. By also combining this data with publicly available financial and trading information the IDSS provides a compelling proprietary quantitative investment model that can be used to provide advice to anyone managing a portfolio.

Conventional rating systems rate stocks using a model based on some number of variables or criteria e.g. related to earnings per share market CAP etc. where the variables are all based on publicly available data or metrics. Once rated the stocks are ranked. In contrast to these conventional systems the IDSS rating component is built on a ranking system which ranks members or individuals. The IDSS generally uses a ranking component to rank members based on their historical investment performance and then uses data of the ranking to identify a segment or portion of the people whose past performance is a good predictor of future results. The IDSS of an embodiment uses the aggregated data to rank the members and using the ranking identify the appropriate segment of people to use as predictors. Subsequently the IDSS uses data of the real time trading activities of the predictor members as a security rating system to rate securities for all participating members. Also other parameters e.g. earnings per share EPS price to earnings P E ratio stock price momentum etc. may be used along with the rank data to generate the security ratings. The rating system e.g. ratings include A B C D and F ratings is then used to automatically monitor member portfolios.

The data aggregation of an embodiment operates on data entered by a member and or data received at the IDSS via data pushing pulling and or fetching operations from the member s brokerage accounts or other investment accounts and or receiving data entered directly by a member. For manual inputting of data by a member the member can manually enter a portion and or all of the positions of his her portfolio data into the IDSS via a member portal or access point.

The IDSS also supports automatic data transfer operations. For example a user can enter the username and password to each financial institution account e.g. third party brokerage account etc. that stores the member s online investment data components of the IDSS will then receive the data from the third party financial institution account via one or more of data pushing pulling fetching and or retrieving operations. The data of an embodiment is automatically received according to programmable or selectable periods e.g. hourly twice a day daily weekly etc. . Furthermore the IDSS can import data from a file obtained from a third party financial institution in response to activation or selection of a download button e.g. Quicken Web Connect . Regardless of the data entry mechanism used the IDSS components automatically aggregate investment data and incorporate the data into back end databases with other individual investor data.

The data aggregation of an embodiment includes normalizing of data received at the IDSS. is a block diagram of the aggregation component of the IDSS coupled to a normalizing component under an embodiment. The normalizing component is coupled to the aggregation component or alternatively integrated as a sub component or sub system of the aggregation component . The output of the normalizing component includes normalized data .

Using the normalizing component data aggregation of an embodiment includes normalization of data aggregated from across multiple financial institution accounts. This normalization can include but is not limited to insertion of synthetic buy sell transactions for balancing purposes determining if a portfolio is complete and balanced auto reconciliation of positions and transactions security matching given symbol Committee on Uniform Security identification Procedures CUSIP number or company name sector information corporate action and short selling handling and verification of position pricing information with several different historical data sources.

The IDSS of an embodiment is configured to normalize aggregated data by receiving investment data e.g. positions transactions cash balances etc. from one or more third party brokerages or brokerage accounts. The investment data can be received via synchronization over electronic couplings with brokerages market services and or other third party sources of data. The received data is matched against a known set of identifiers for each particular security. The matching includes taking a set of possible solutions and finding the first successful match using the security s CUSIP symbol or name. Because every brokerage may use a different description for broker actions a determination is made as to how each brokerage describes the common broker actions for example buy sell split and dividend to name a few. Each transaction is then classified according to the broker action.

When the normalizing includes balancing the IDSS of an embodiment is configured to balance a portfolio by forming historical snapshots of the portfolio using data of the received positions and transactions. The snapshots are historical versions of a member s holdings and transactions at each transactional event. These snapshots include holdings coming into the transaction holdings going out of the transaction and a transactional event.

A determination is made as to whether any additional transactions are required in order to match the current portfolio state or holding to the portfolio state indicated by the transactional history. If the transactional history totals to more holdings than the current portfolio holdings the normalizing component generates or creates a synthetic sell transaction to reduce the holdings the synthetic sell transaction involves a number and or type of stocks by which the transactions history exceeds the current holdings. If the transactional history totals to fewer holdings than the current portfolio holdings the normalizing component generates or creates a synthetic buy transaction to increase the holdings the synthetic buy transaction involves a number and or type of stocks by which the transactions history is deficient relative to the current holdings.

When the normalizing of an embodiment includes automatic reconciliation of positions and transactions the IDSS is configured to locate a particular security. If the particular security is not located it remains in a not found state in the aggregate investment data. When located the price activity date and action of the security is compared against all other transactions known for this member. If no other similar transactions are found for this member the transaction is reconciled otherwise the transaction is marked as a possible duplicate transaction.

The IDSS uses aggregated data of investors to rank the investors. is a block diagram of the aggregation component of the IDSS coupled to a ranking component that outputs investor ranks under an embodiment. The input to the ranking component includes normalized data as described above but is not limited to normalized data.

The IDSS ranks individual members based on a variety of attributes including actual historical and current portfolio data. The ranking attributes might include data of watch lists but is not so limited. The security rating and recommendation engine operations are based on these rankings as detailed below. The ranking component generally ranks individual investors into different tiers and the tiers are defined by different percentiles where the highest tier e.g. Elite rank or tier comprises the top investors in the IDSS community. The other tiers below the highest tier follow the same principle with the last tier comprising the lowest performing investors. The ranking is derived primarily from risk adjusted performance which is a measure of investor performance with the volatility attributable to different risk profiles removed and exposing the skill in picking different investments. Investors with a high risk adjusted performance are rated higher than those with a low risk adjusted performance.

The IDSS receives investment data of a large number of members and the investment data includes actual historical portfolio data current holdings watch lists and or real time trading information for example. The investment data can include other types of historical performance data of the members. This investment data is received into the IDSS from a variety of sources online brokerage accounts portfolio management websites personal software of a member e.g. Quicken etc. as well as manual entry. The investment data is received via importation fetching and or retrieving for example or via other techniques known in the art for transferring data. The investment data received can span long periods of time and in some cases can go as far back as eight 8 years depending on the data tenure of the online brokerages.

This disparate individual historical performance data in the system provides insight into the past and current universal distribution curve of high strong and low poor performing individual investors. Investors that have consistently experienced significant historical returns and outperformed indices and benchmarks are ranked higher than those with minimal or negative returns. For the first time the IDSS enables individual investors to see where they stand as far as their investment performance relative to some number of their peers and the top individual investors in the IDSS community can be recognized.

The ranking operations begin when a user imports his her investment data from one or more brokerage accounts e.g. Charles Schwab Fidelity eTrade etc. via an electronic coupling between the brokerage account and the IDSS. The IDSS aggregates the investment data received and initiates or performs a series of calculations. The data aggregation enables matching of investors as described herein where the matching includes identifying other investors with portfolios having a similar structure to a member yet are realizing better performance than the member s portfolio.

The IDSS is configured to take the investment data and construct numerous distinct views of information. For example the IDSS of an embodiment generates a first view that is personal to the member personal view a second view that is shared with a network network view and a third view that is shared with the general public public view . The information views can be accessed via the IDSS web site. For the member specifically the IDSS automatically calculates individual portfolio returns and performance for various time periods. The returns and performance are calculated for example for a current period e.g. current day time period of the current day etc. and or during a historical period e.g. daily for the last 180 days daily for the last month daily for the last quarter daily for the last year monthly for the last year monthly for the last five 5 years average annual return for the last year average annual return for the last two 2 years etc. .

The calculations performed by the IDSS of an embodiment include one or more of time or money weighted performance current and historical portfolio risk Sharpe ratio portfolio dollar values including cash balances verification level of the quality of the data number of trades year average hold time of an asset average cost basis holdings percentages and asset allocation and tenure of data. These calculations appear on the member s area of a portal or electronic site e.g. members home page of the IDSS web site and are easily accessible throughout the IDSS. These calculations form the basis for a member statistics or stats area which provides or preserves a historical record of a member s investment activity similar to the statistics for a baseball player on the back of a baseball card. This is of immense value to a member since the majority of online brokerage firms only preserve a certain window of data and then it becomes inaccessible to the user as well as providing a consolidated view of the statistics for a member s entire holdings across various investment accounts held at different financial institutions.

The ranking component of an embodiment is configured to perform a weighting of members using results of the calculations and data of numerous weighting parameters or member attributes as described above. The parameters include the risk adjusted performance of each member. The risk adjusted performance is generated from data of historical performance and risk.

The parameters also include the tenure of data. The tenure of data is the amount or length of transactional history available for a member. If a member has three years of transactional history stored within the system the tenure of her account is three years for example. The data tenure of an embodiment can be any period of time e.g. 1 months data 2 years of data etc. .

The parameters additionally include validity of data. Each member has a verification level assigned to him her based on the amount of that member s data that is manually created or entered by the member e.g. not verifiable and the amount of that member s data received via an electronic link or coupling with a brokerage e.g. verifiable .

The ranking system weighting parameters can also include member popularity. The popularity attribute quantities or weights each member by the quality of investors to which that member is linked on the platform. Members can follow other members and when many other members are linked to a particular member e.g. has many followers this is a quantifiable measure of popularity. When considering a member s popularity the quality of the member s followers is also considered and highly rated followers score higher than lowly rated followers.

The parameters for weighting of members further include momentum. The momentum attribute represents for example performance above a pre specified threshold during a pre specified period of time e.g. 3 months 6 months etc. . The most recent performance trend e.g. upward trend downward trend plateau of the member s portfolio is therefore represented in the overall ranking as members can change their investment strategy at any point and the current strategy is more important to the IDSS member investor community as it will be controlling the future performance of the investor.

The weighting parameters used in the ranking of members can include various other variables. The other variables can include number of trades per year by a member average hold time of an investment and sector weighting to name a few.

Using the weighting parameters described above the IDSS ranks each member in order to compare him her against other members individuals and benchmarks. In ranking each member the ranking component calculates or generates each member s five 5 year Sharpe Ratio and this Sharpe Ratio forms abuse score. While the ranking component of an embodiment uses the Sharpe Ratio to form the base score the embodiment is not so limited and alternative embodiments can use other available techniques to generate the base score.

The ranking component adjusts the base score according to one or more criteria. The ranking component of an embodiment adjusts the base score according to the data tenure. For example the base score remains unadjusted for a data tenure approximately equal to five 5 or more years while the base score is adjusted down to a value of zero 0 for a data tenure of zero 0 or an absence of tenure data. The adjustments are performed by multiplying the input base score by a factor representative of the data tenure. For example a data tenure of approximately three 3 years results in multiplication of the base score by a factor of 60 three 3 years is 0.60 or 60 of five 5 years for an effective reduction in the base score of approximately 40 . The adjustments for data tenure however are not limited to linear adjustments or multiplication operations.

The ranking component also adjusts the base score according to data validity or verification. For example the input base score whether unadjusted or previously adjusted is not adjusted for a fully verified account but is adjusted down e.g. reduced 50 reduced 30 etc. for an unverified account. The adjustments for data validity are not limited to linear adjustments or multiplication operations.

The ranking component can also adjust the base score according to member popularity. For example the input base score whether unadjusted or previously adjusted is not adjusted for a contact and follower network larger than a pre specified popularity threshold. However the input base score can be adjusted down e.g. reduced 25 for an empty network with no linked members. For example a network of a particular member that includes a number of members approximately equal to 80 of the popularity threshold value results in an effective reduction in the base score of approximately 10 . The adjustments for member popularity are not limited to linear adjustments or multiplication operations.

The ranking component of an embodiment categorizes and qualifies individual investors based upon real historical and real time brokerage account data. The opportunity is to develop either a long or short investment strategy that can be used as the basis for an investment recommendation. Several criteria are considered including historical performance real time trading activity and holding decisions sector inflows and outflows risk and diversification amongst others to form the basis of the system. The system can then confidently and predictively identify skillful and not so skillful investors from a pool of retail investors that have a high potential to continue to realize positive or negative returns for some period into the future.

Previously it has been assumed that investors with historically high Sharpe Ratios i.e. risk adjusted excess return over some time period will continue to have high Sharpe Ratios in the future. However the mere presence of a high Sharpe Ratio does not guarantee that an individual has a proven and replicable ability in either portfolio construction or stock selection or market timing. Rather it reveals a combination of skill alpha leverage beta and luck. It is this combination of alpha beta and luck that comprises the realized Sharpe Ratio. There is no promise of persistence. Therefore using Sharpe Ratio to rank investors might be like saying I am willing to bet my money on investors that got the most return for a given amount of risk regardless of how they got there i.e. I don t care if they were skillful investors or leveraged the market in an up market or were just lucky .

This is a poor bet simply because out of a pool of investors with high realized Sharpe Ratios the only ones that are expected to do well in the future are those that have skill alpha. Investors with high beta scores will likely continue to outperform in bull markets and conversely will be expected to underperform in bear markets. Investors that were just lucky may or may not continue to outperform in the future it is more likely the case that he she will not outperform.

A predictive ranking algorithm like the ranking component of an embodiment therefore identifies skillful investors and filters out investors with high betas and investors that have simply been lucky. The first filter should ideally make the skilled investor pool market of an embodiment neutral and the second filter should remove randomness from that skilled investor pool.

The IDSS through the ranking component identifies skilled not leveraged investors who win most of the time persistent and win big win big lose small confident in their choices . The ranking component of an embodiment functions to identify the skilled investors who are persistent and confident as described in detail below.

The ranking component functions to remove investors that achieved high returns because of leverage through the use of the Information Ratio IR as a ranking criterion. Similar to the Sharpe Ratio the Information Ratio measures risk adjusted active return. The active return is return alpha over a benchmark e.g. S P 500 . The IR is used in the IDSS of an embodiment instead of the Sharpe Ratio and in an alternative embodiment of the IDSS the IR is used along with the Sharpe Ratio.

Simulations were run with 16 different ranking algorithms on half of the dataset to avoid statistical over fitting of data by varying the ranking and following times. In each case two simulations were run one using Sharpe Ratio as the ranking criterion and the other using the Information Ratio. In addition to ranking investors over a fixed time period 2 years 3 years etc. the concept of a blended ranking algorithm was introduced that takes into account ranking over multiple time scales for example 40 of the rank comes from a 2 year Sharpe Information Ratio 30 comes from a 1 year Sharpe Information Ratio 20 from a 6 month Sharpe Information Ratio and 10 from a 3 month Sharpe Information Ratio. It was found that most such blended ranking algorithms were inferior to ranking algorithms based on a single time scale however it should be noted that the shortest time period used in the static ranking algorithms is 2 years while the shortest time period used for the blended ranking algorithm is 3 months.

These simulations showed that the Information Ratio based strategies outperform Sharpe Ratio only strategies in approximately 70 of the cases. Furthermore in cases when the IR strategy underperforms the average underperformance is 2.64 range 0.39 to 7.7 while the average outperformance is 7.46 range 0.22 to 28.17 .

Additionally the ranking component or algorithm of an embodiment based on or considering IR follows the desired intuitive trend where the top 1 population out performs the top 5 population which outperforms the top 10 population and so on. While this trend was robust up to 2007 even when using a SR strategy it was reversed in 2008 with the SR strategy where the top 1 investors underperformed the top 10 by 3 . The results for this case are summarized in the table shown in . The Ranking algorithm used looks at Sharpe Information ratio based on 2 years of performance and follows the top x investors for a period of 4 months.

The investor ranking of an embodiment further comprises generating a persistence score for each investor of the plurality of investors. The persistence score represents skill of the investor relative to a benchmark. The investor ranking of an embodiment comprises generating a confidence score for each investor of the plurality of investors. The confidence score represents an investment win percentage relative to an investment loss percentage. The investor ranking of an embodiment comprises generating a rank score for each investor of the plurality of investors by combining the skill score the persistence score and the confidence score. The rank score categorizes the investor relative to other investors based upon historical investment data and real time brokerage account data.

The objective of the skill score is to come up with a numeric score between 0 and 100 for each investor. The skill score of an embodiment takes into account the IR and investing tenure of each investor. Generally skill score generating includes generating a base score and then adjusting the base score by a tenure adjustment or factor based on the investing tenure of each investor. Generally base score generation or calculation includes the following operations but the embodiment is not so limited calculate the IR for each investor over the last 2 years take the minimum IR and subtract this from all IRs results in a lower limit of 0 take the maximum IR and divide all IRs by the max IR results in an upper limit of 1 generate a base score by multiplying each investor s IR by 100 results in an IR range between 0 and 100 . The skill score is generated by adjusting the base score for investing tenure. In applying a tenure adjustment if the investor has more than 2 years of investing tenure a tenure adjustment factor of 1.0 is used. If the investor has 2 years or less of investing tenure a tenure adjustment factor used is 0.2 0.7 Tenure 1.75 this adjustment keeps the entire base score for everyone that has a tenure of 2 years or more but scales down the score for investors that have less than 2 years of tenure and for investors with less than 3 months of investing tenure the algorithm retains 30 of their base score.

The skill score of an alternative embodiment represents a combination of the IR and SR of the investor. is a flow diagram for generating the skill score using the Sharpe Ratio SR and Information Ratio IR under an alternative embodiment. To calculate the skill score of this alternative embodiment the ranking component calculates the SR and IR for each individual. The ranking component calculates the SR by calculating the monthly excess return for each investor the monthly excess return for an investor is defined as the monthly return for the investor minus the risk free return for each month for the past N years. The IDSS of an embodiment uses two 2 years for the calculation of SR but it could be for any time period. The SR is computed by dividing the average of the monthly returns by the standard deviation of the monthly returns.

Let the monthly returns for an investor be denoted by r r r . . . r and the risk free returns be denoted by r r r . . . r where the subscripts denote each monthly period for which the return is calculated. The excess monthly return r for month i is then given by The average of the excess monthly returns is then calculated as

The ranking component calculates the IR by calculating the monthly excess active return for each investor for each month for the past N years. The monthly excess active return for an investor is defined as the monthly return for the investor minus a benchmark return the benchmark can be any index or security for example the Standard and Poor s S P 500 S P 500 Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA and National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Operations NASDAQ to name a few. The IDSS of an embodiment currently uses two 2 years for the calculation of IR but it could be for any time period. The IR is computed by dividing the average of the weighted monthly active returns by the standard deviation of the monthly returns.

Let the monthly returns for an investor be denoted by r r r . . . r and the benchmark returns be denoted by r r r . . . r where the subscripts denote each monthly period for which the return is calculated. The excess active monthly return r for month i is then given by Once the excess active monthly returns are calculated they are weighted using a weighting function which may be a constant a linear function an exponential function but not limited to these . The IDSS uses an exponential weighting scheme to weight the returns as exp where t 0 for the most recent month and decreases linearly by 1 each prior month and

Generating the skill score of the alternative embodiment continues by normalizing the FR into the skill score as follows. Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum FR among the plurality of investors. Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating a first interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum FR from the FR of each investor and this produces a lower limit of zero 0 . Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum FR of the plurality of investors. Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating a second interim score for each investor by dividing the first interim score by the maximum FR and this produces an upper limit of one 1 . Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score for each investor by multiplying the second interim score by 100 and this operation produces an FR range between 0 and 100.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score for each investor by applying a tenure factor to the base skill score. If an investor has more than two 2 years if investing tenure the tenure adjustment factor is 1.0 otherwise tenure adjustment is a decay function e.g. linear decay exponential decay etc. . The tenure adjustment keeps the entire base score for everyone having tenure of 2 years or more but scales down the score for investors that have less than 2 years tenure. If an investor has less than 3 months of investing tenure the skill score is multiplied by a tenure factor of 0.3.

Regardless of method used to generate the skill score the ranking component of an embodiment uses a persistence score to find and filter investors that have high IR purely by luck. In a world of random investors it is assumed that the probability of winning is the same as the probability of losing. In the absence of any information other than what is known to everyone else the unskilled common investor is as likely to outperform as he or she is to underperform. Here a win is defined as outperforming a benchmark not just making money. The properties of the binomial distribution are then used to calculate a measure of skill. This is very similar to a coin toss experiment where the probability of getting a head win in a coin toss is 0.5. Thus in a series of coin toss experiments the number of heads and tails should converge. This is similar to the situation where there is no investing skill. If however the number of heads is significantly different from the number if tails it is determined that the coin is biased.

In a first example case a user makes 9 winning bets out of 10. The distance is calculated in this example as follows calculate the Wining score this is simply the number of wins and in this case Winning score is 9 calculate the mean for the case with 10 trials as the number of trials N times the probability of success p e.g. Mean 10 0.5 5 calculate the SD Sigma for binomial distribution with N 10 as square root over 10 0.5 1 0.5 square root over 2.5 1.58 calculate a distance from the mean as Delta Winning Score Mean Sigma e.g. Delta 9 5 1.58 2.53 . The distance is a measure of hw far the winning score is from the mean counted in terms of Sigma. In a normal distribution 66 of all values lie within 1 sigma of the mean 95 within 2 sigma and about 99 values lie within 3 sigma of the mean. The larger the distance the greater the likelihood the result is skill and not luck.

In a second example case a user makes 90 winning bets out of 100. The distance is calculated in this example as follows calculate the Wining score this is simply the number of wins and in this case Winning score is 90 calculate the mean for the case with 100 trials as the number of trials N times the probability of success p e.g. Mean 100 0.5 50 calculate the SD Sigma for binomial distribution with N 100 as 5 calculate a distance from the mean as Delta Winning Score Mean Sigma e.g. Delta 90 50 5 8.0 .

In a third example case a user makes 75 winning bets out of 100. The distance is calculated in this example as follows calculate the Wining score this is simply the number of wins and in this case Winning score is 75 calculate the mean for the case with 100 trials as the number of trials N times the probability of success p e.g. Mean 100 0.5 50 calculate the SD Sigma for binomial distribution with N 100 as 5 calculate a distance from the mean as Delta Winning Score Mean Sigma e.g. Delta 75 50 5 5.0 . These examples show that a person who makes 75 winning bets out of 100 is more skillful than one who makes 9 winning bets out of 10 even though the latter wins 90 of the time while the former wins 75 of the time however the latter has fewer bets to show persistence.

Following calculation of delta s for all investors the deltas are normalized. The normalization of an embodiment is performed as follows. The delta scores are exponentiated as Delta Score . Once a delta score has been calculated for all investors the smallest delta is selected or identified and subtracted from the delta scores of each investor. The largest delta score is selected or identified and the delta score of each investor is divided by the largest delta score. All delta scores are multiplied by 100 to generate the persistence score where the persistence score is in the range of 0 to 100.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum delta score among the delta scores of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a third interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum delta score from the delta score of each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum third interim score of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a fourth interim score for each investor by dividing the third interim score of each investor by the maximum third interim score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score for each investor by multiplying the fourth interim score by 100.

The ranking methodology continues by selecting or determining which investors are not only skillful and persistent in their skill but also confident. A confidence score measures how big an investor wins when they make a winning bet versus how small they lose when they make a losing bet. The score itself is defined as the ratio of portfolio weighted average win percentage vs. the portfolio weighted average loss percentage as

The portfolio weighted average win percentage and the portfolio weighted average loss percentage are calculated as respectively 

Ideally the objective is to identify investors that have either a high or low confidence score. These would be investors who either win big with large percentages of their portfolio and lose small with small percentages of their portfolios i.e. if someone made 200 on a position that was 1 of the portfolio then that should count as 2 1 of 200 gain not 200 gain and vice versa .

Generally confidence score is generated by calculating for each trade made in the ranking period a gain loss. In this case the gain loss also needs to take into account the portfolio percentage the position in question made up in the portfolio at the beginning so the portfolio needs to be valued at the time of Buy transactions. Once the wins and losses are calculated this way the average win and average loss is calculated and a ratio of wins to losses is determined. An upper limit is created for the weighted win ratio so that people with zero losses do not get an infinite win ratio. These scores are normalized in the same way as described above for the skill and persistence scores to provide a confidence score in the range of 0 to 100.

Generating the weighted average gain percentage and the weighted average loss percentage also includes establishing a portfolio value for the portfolio at a time when the investment position is entered and using the portfolio value to establish the percentage gain and the percentage loss. Therefore the confidence score represents for each investor a magnitude of outperforming a benchmark when the investment position outperforms relative to a magnitude of failing to outperform the benchmark when the investment position underperforms.

The final rank score as described above identifies skilled investors high Information Ratio who win most of the time high Persistence Score and win big high Confidence score . The final rank score is generated by taking a weighted average of the three component scores which produces or results in a number between 0 and 100 as

Generating the rank score of an embodiment thus comprises generating a weighted average of the skill score the persistence score and the confidence score. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a skill component by multiplying the skill score by first weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a persistence component by multiplying the persistence score by a second weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a confidence component by multiplying the confidence score by a third weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises calculating the rank score by summing the skill component the persistence component and the confidence component. A sum of the first weight the second weight and the third weight equals one 1 . The rank score is used to classify each investor by the rank score of the investor.

Following application of any adjustments to the base score as appropriate to a member and the member s corresponding data the resulting score is assigned to the member. The ranking component uses the assigned score of members to rank each member and compare each member against other members individuals and benchmarks. The ranking component assesses the scores of the total member population and assigns each member to a group where each group represents a percentile of the total member population. The ranking component of an embodiment for example includes five groups into which a member is placed the groups including elite members top 1 platinum members top 2 10 gold members top 11 25 silver members top 26 50 and bronze members remaining . The ranking component of alternative embodiments can include an alternative number of groups and or alternative percentiles corresponding to the groups e.g. decile groups etc. .

The IDSS components use the member rankings to match a member with other members who may share similar portfolio construction holdings risk level investing strategies and or other demographics e.g. age zip code education and who may have significantly outperformed the member with lower incurred risk levels. By doing so the IDSS greatly informs a particular member about the state of his her investment approach and performance and potentially improves future returns for the member.

The IDSS also uses the ranking to understand or provide information as to how different ranks of investors are making investment decisions. For example the IDSS enables visibility into what the top 10 members are holding investing in watching and or transacting. Furthermore the IDSS provides insight into the top aggregated holdings watch list items and buys and sells across each of the rank categories or groups. The IDSS enables tracking of certain securities over time to understand how a particular security e.g. Apple Inc. trends in popularity over time and identify when large blocks of individuals having a certain rank are trading. Therefore while trading activity in the form of total volume of securities traded is publicly available information the IDSS adds a component of information as to which investors e.g. good or bad investors are participating in the trading activity.

The member rankings are also used as benchmarks by which each member can evaluate his her performance against his her appropriate benchmark using his her portfolio components. For example the rankings serve to benchmark individual member performance against relevant market indices over the tenure of data to benchmark individual return performance against other individuals to benchmark individual return performance against an aggregate of individuals based upon ranked return performance and various demographic characteristics including but not limited to zip code income level investment strategies education professional affiliation and social networks to name a few.

The IDSS rankings also provide Instant Asset Allocation benchmarks to peer rank groups. The IDSS allocates member positions into core asset categories and provides an asset allocation model. The IDSS therefore enables comparison of individual asset allocation with other peer rank groups. The IDSS also creates best practices asset allocation models based upon the top performance of individuals using holdings risk exposure beta Sharpe and other relevant metrics. The IDSS of an embodiment uses or includes a proactive Dynamic Asset Allocation model by which users can set allocation parameters enabling the IDSS to automatically notify users when allocation parameters are violated.

The IDSS uses data of the investor rankings to rate securities. The rating component is configured to rate publicly traded equities exchange traded funds ETFs mutual funds options fixed income instruments and or other available investment vehicles based on the performance of the individuals that own buy and or sell positions. For example a member doing research on Apple Inc. can search the IDSS for information on the stock. The IDSS subscribes a rating to the stock based on the number and quality of other members that currently own the stock the number and quality of members that are shorting the stock the number and quality of members that previously own the stock and the relative performance of those members. Equities that have been recently purchased by aggregate top ranked members and or equities that continue to be owned by top ranked members will receive relatively high ratings. Positions that have either been liquidated by top ranked performers and or acquired primarily by lower ranked performers will receive relatively low ratings.

Generally the rating component uses information of the member rankings to generate security ratings . Similar to the Schwab Equity Rating System and Morningstar s mutual fund star rating system the IDSS provides a proprietary rating for publicly available securities however in contrast to these conventional systems the basis for the IDSS security ratings is the individual member rankings as described below. Additionally other parameters e.g. earnings per share EPS price to earnings P E ratio balance sheet strength etc. may be used along with the rank data to generate the security ratings. The security ratings function to associate with each stock either a buy or a sell recommendation together with strength of signal indications of strength of the recommendation.

The IDSS evaluates activity of certain ranks of members in the aggregate to rate publicly traded equities in real time. The ratings include the ratings A B C D and F but alternative embodiments can use alternative scales or alternative gradations. The IDSS ratings component is configured to sort or organize security positions based on the cumulative ownership watch and transaction behavior by rank. For example movements in and out of positions by members of particular ranks will be catalogued and analyzed e.g. buys and sells by Elite and Platinum investors are likely more attractive buying opportunities for corresponding purchases by lower ranked investors . The rating component is configured to also use publicly available financial data such as fundamentals valuation earnings momentum and risk in the generation of ratings . The rating of an embodiment is based on rank with a principal focus on ownership and activity e.g. buying selling retaining of the members ranked at the top and bottom 10 but is not so limited.

The rating component evaluates strategies of the members to provide information on strategies that have worked previously and strategies likely to be successful in the future. For example regression analysis can be applied to investment data to identify the core components that can lead to a predictive model of future out performance for some period of time. The opposite is also true whereby the rating component can determine investors and strategies that have been found to under perform. An anti fraud component provides fraud detection so that members are prevented from using the system to manipulate stocks thereby affecting their performance and rating. The rating component thus provides information of expected future performance of particular equities in the form of the security ratings . Consequently the IDSS provides data and predictive information or models that on average is relatively more accurate than individual analysts at brokerage firms mutual fund managers and professional investment advisors.

The ratings form the basis for comparisons across different positions. For example the IDSS can track movements over time and compare how securities have trended over certain time horizons. The IDSS can compare individual members based on the rating of positions in their portfolios. Other positions can be provided or displayed to a member which may provide more significant upside with reduced risk than the ones currently in the member s portfolio. The IDSS can also see across various industry sectors and investing strategies to develop hypotheses around areas of potential out performance and under performance.

The IDSS of an embodiment is configured to display the ratings to members via a portal e.g. IDSS web site . A rating is displayed to correspond to each security or position in the member portfolios. The IDSS can also use filtering to display other securities that are related to a particular security but which have a higher rating than the particular security.

The security ratings are displayed using a strength of signal graphic or plot for example. Because the rankings generated by the IDSS assist members in better understanding the underlying positions that members of different ranks are holding watching and transacting the IDSS uses the rankings to generate information of and display via the strength of signal plot the net buying activity of particular positions through application of a calculation that aggregates all of the different rankings into one measure. The IDSS calculates this measure over time to determine an understanding of trends. This way a member can compare various positions quickly to gauge whether he she should sell or buy.

In generating strength of signal the organizing of rank categories is done by scoring each category. The scoring includes determining the number of trades per rank category e.g. elite bronze etc. and weighting the number of trades of each rank category by the relative performance of that rank category compared to other categories. Therefore the scoring includes determining a ratio for each category by dividing the average return for that category by the average return for the bronze category where the performance of the bronze category serves as a base category in this example.

The categories are arranged along the x axis of the strength of signal plot according to their score e.g. category with lowest score is placed in left most position along the x axis category with highest score is placed in right most position along the x axis . Alternatively securities can be placed on the strength of signal plot without any express correlation to rank categories. Therefore the IDSS generates the strength of signal plot by identifying the category of members that provide the best performance e.g. members with an Elite rank members with a Platinum rank etc. and organizing the categories along the x axis of a plot according to the relative performance. The x axis of the plot of an embodiment thus provides an indication of which members are buying or selling a security.

The IDSS determines a number of buys and sells done for each security and calculates the net transactions for each security by subtracting the number of sells from the number of buys for a period of time. The strength of signal measure is determined by dividing the net transactions by the total number of buys and sells of the security. The y axis of the strength of signal plot therefore represents this average buy sell activity net buy or net sell or strength of signal.

The strength of signal plot of an embodiment provides information about which members have been buying a particular security over a certain time period. Using the strength of signal plot as an example a security located in the top right corner of the plot means that top ranked investors e.g. Elite members in this example have been buying this stock during the period which might make this stock an attractive buy candidate for other members. Furthermore an embodiment presents or displays the momentum of the strength of signal for a security over some period of time. The momentum includes information as to the difference in the size and placement of the circle over time but is not so limited.

The volume of trading for each security is represented by the size or area of the circle representing the security on the plot . Consequently the strength of signal plot of an embodiment also provides information of the volume of trading for each security.

Strength of signal can also be used for example to determine a stock rating score. The stock rating score of an embodiment also referred to herein as CakeTake or a sentiment score answers a simple question what is the collective take of ranked members on a particular stock or security in terms of their recent buying and selling activity In other words the stock rating score is a signal that distills the collective mood or sentiment of ranked members around a particular stock or security where they have been active that considers the historical performance and rankings of those members. The stock rating score is not a recommendation to buy or sell a particular stock or security nor is it a stock rating. The stock rating score does offer however a quick directional read on what ranked members have been buying or selling. In this sense the stock rating score goes beyond what people may be saying or thinking and looks at what they have been actually doing in their own portfolios.

Calculation or generation of the stock rating score generally begins by establishing a count of all current members who bought or sold a particular stock or security during the time period in question e.g. prior week month quarter year etc. . It is to be understood that this count is a count of the noses of members not the dollar amounts how many shares each member bought or sold or what they may continue to hold.

Further consideration is given to other factors including but not limited to the specific ranking of each member who bought or sold during the time period. To get of better sense of the directional mood of the members greater weight is placed on the actions of more highly ranked members and less weight is placed on lower ranked members. Additionally greater weight is placed on more recent buying and selling activity because more recent activity likely says more about the mood or sentiment of members than activity that occurred some time ago.

For each position where sufficient data is available to calculate a stock rating score all of the information described above is then rolled up into the collective take of ranked members for each time period and an overall composite take considering all time periods is also displayed. The purpose of the stock rating score is to gain better insights into whether ranked members have been buying or selling particular stocks or securities over each of the time periods and which way they are headed. A stock rating score is not calculated for securities that have not had sufficient trading activity. The stock rating score and member rankings are calculated and updated periodically e.g. hourly daily etc. .

More specifically the stock rating score generated under an embodiment of the IDSS is a numerical score for each stock for which it is calculated based on the activity in the IDSS. Thus the Cake Take is a rating system for any publicly traded security stocks mutual funds and ETFs based on the historical performance real time trading activity and holding decisions of a group of individual investors. The stock rating score uses calculated ranges from 0 to 100 but is not so limited.

The IDSS of an embodiment includes any number of modules that generate and or include aggregated data derived from the investment data transactional information and brokerage account information. As an example the IDSS of an embodiment as described below with reference to includes one or more modules that include a Cake Take rating module. The Cake Take module generates and or includes the Cake Take as described herein.

When applied to an investment position including equities or stocks the rating system generates a numerical score for each equity held in a data set. The numerical score comprises the average of the rank score of the group of individuals holding the stock in question.

The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating a rank score for each investor . The rank score categorizes each investor relative to other investors of the set of investors for a time period of time of the plurality of time periods. The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating an average rank score for the period of time. Generating the average rank score comprises generating an average rank score for the time period by averaging the rank scores of all investors of the set of investors.

The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating a trailing rank score by averaging the rank scores across the plurality of periods of time. Generating the trailing rank score comprises averaging the rank scores for all time periods of the plurality of time periods.

The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises generating a stock rating score for each investment position by combining the average rank score and the trailing rank score of the set of investors corresponding to the investment position. Generating the stock rating score comprises generating a weighted average of the average rank score and the trailing rank score. Generating the stock rating score comprises forming an average rank component by multiplying the average rank score by a first weight. Generating the stock rating score comprises forming a trailing rank component by multiplying the trailing rank score by a second weight. Generating the stock rating score comprises calculating the stock rating score by summing the average rank component and the trailing rank component. A sum of the first weight and the second weight equals one 1 . The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises normalizing the stock rating scores for the plurality of investment positions.

The rating of an investment position of an embodiment comprises rating each of the plurality of investment positions according to the stock rating scores of each investment position. Rating the plurality of investment positions comprises organizing the plurality of investment positions according to the corresponding stock rating scores. The organizing comprises a descending stock rating score but the embodiment is not so limited. Rating the plurality of investment positions generally comprises forming a rating hierarchy comprising a plurality of categories organized according to the stock rating score. The rating hierarchy of an embodiment comprises a 15 point scale but is not so limited.

As an example of the rating of an embodiment consider a stock ABC held by five investors investors 1 5 with the rank scores shown in the table of . The average rank score assigned to stock in this example is 41.96 the average of the five Rank scores . Also calculated is the trailing rank score for each stock over a specified period e.g. last 30 days . The stock rating score is calculated as a weighted average of the current score and the 30 day trailing average score as Stock Rating Score Current Score 30 Day Trailing Score

Once scores are calculated for each stock the set of scores is normalized resulting in each stock getting a score on a 0 to 100 scale. The stocks are then rated on a 15 point scale e.g. A through F as shown in the table in and organized according to categories.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a first category comprising a first 2.5 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the first category has a rating score of 15. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a second category following the first category the second category comprising a first subsequent three 3 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the second category has a rating score of 14. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a third category following the second category the third category comprising a second subsequent 4.5 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the third category has a rating score of 13. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fourth category following the third category the fourth category comprising a third subsequent six 6 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the fourth category has a rating score of 12. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fifth category following the fourth category the fifth category comprising a fourth subsequent seven 7 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the fifth category has a rating score of 11.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a sixth category following the fifth category the sixth category comprising a fifth subsequent eight 8 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the sixth category has a rating score of 10. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a seventh category following the sixth category the seventh category comprising a sixth subsequent nine 9 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the seventh category has a rating score of 9. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise an eighth category following the seventh category the eighth category comprising a seventh subsequent 20 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the eighth category has a rating score of 8. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a ninth category following the eighth category the ninth category comprising an eighth subsequent nine 9 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the ninth category has a rating score of 7. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a tenth category following the ninth category the tenth category comprising a ninth subsequent eight 8 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the tenth category has a rating score of 6.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise an eleventh category following the tenth category the eleventh category comprising a tenth subsequent seven 7 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the eleventh category has a rating score of 5. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a twelfth category following the eleventh category the twelfth category comprising an eleventh subsequent six 6 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the twelfth category has a rating score of 4. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a thirteenth category following the twelfth category the thirteenth category comprising a twelfth subsequent 4.5 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the thirteenth category has a rating score of 3. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fourteenth category following the thirteenth category the fourteenth category comprising a thirteenth subsequent three 3 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the fourteenth category has a rating score of 2. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fifteenth category following the fourteenth category the fifteenth category comprising a fourteenth subsequent 2.5 percent of investment positions according to the stock rating score wherein the fifteenth category has a rating score of 1.

In order to calculate ratings for mutual funds and ETFs the IDSS of an embodiment applies the ranking algorithm of the ranking component to the mutual funds and ETFs. In so doing an embodiment uses returns adjusted for expenses when calculating the Information Ratio of the mutual fund or exchange traded fund ETF . Furthermore the variable a in the rank score formula is set equal to 1.0. Moreover an embodiment considers additional factors such as the fund manager s historical performance number of years investing underlying holdings turnover and fund inflows and outflows for example.

The mutual fund ETF ranking of an embodiment comprises generating a skill score for each mutual fund ETF of a plurality of mutual funds ETFs as described above with reference to an individual investor. The skill score represents an Information Ratio IR of the mutual fund ETF. The mutual fund ETF ranking of an embodiment comprises using the skill score as the rank score and the rating of the mutual fund ETF.

The objective of the skill score or rank score is to generate a numeric score between 0 and 100 for each mutual fund ETF. The skill score takes into account the IR and investing tenure of each mutual fund ETF. Generally skill score generating includes generating a base score and then adjusting the base score by a tenure adjustment or factor based on the investing tenure of each mutual fund ETF. Generally base score generation or calculation includes the following operations but the embodiment is not so limited calculate the IR for each mutual fund ETF over the last 2 years take the minimum IR and subtract this from all IRs results in a lower limit of 0 take the maximum IR and divide all IRs by the maximum IR results in an upper limit of 1 generate a base score by multiplying each mutual fund ETF IR by 100 results in an IR range between 0 and 100 . The skill score is generated by adjusting the base score for investing tenure. In applying a tenure adjustment if the mutual fund ETF has more than 2 years of investing tenure a tenure adjustment factor of 1.0 is used. If the mutual fund ETF has 2 years or less of investing tenure a tenure adjustment factor used is 0.2 0.7 Tenure 1.75 this adjustment keeps the entire base score for every mutual fund ETF that has a tenure of 2 years or more but scales down the score for mutual funds ETFs that have less than 2 years of tenure and for mutual funds ETFs with less than 3 months of investing tenure the algorithm retains 30 of their base score.

Once skill scores are calculated for each mutual fund ETF the mutual funds ETFs are then rated on a 15 point scale e.g. A through F as shown in the table in and organized according to categories.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprises a first category comprising a first 1.5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the first category has a rating score of 15. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a second category following the first category the second category comprising a first subsequent two 2 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the second category has a rating score of 14. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a third category following the second category the third category comprising a second subsequent two 2 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the third category has a rating score of 13. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fourth category following the third category the fourth category comprising a third subsequent 3.5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the fourth category has a rating score of 12. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fifth category following the fourth category the fifth category comprising a fourth subsequent 3.5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the fifth category has orating score of 11.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a sixth category following the fifth category the sixth category comprising a fifth subsequent 3.5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the sixth category has a rating score of 10. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a seventh category following the sixth category the seventh category comprising a sixth subsequent five 5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the seventh category has a rating score of 9. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise an eighth category following the seventh category the eighth category comprising a seventh subsequent five 5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the eighth category has a rating score of 8. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a ninth category following the eighth category the ninth category comprising an eighth subsequent five 5 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the ninth category has a rating score of 7. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a tenth category following the ninth category the tenth category comprising a ninth subsequent nine 9 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the tenth category has a rating score of 6.

The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise an eleventh category following the tenth category the eleventh category comprising a tenth subsequent 10 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the eleventh category has a rating score of 5. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a twelfth category following the eleventh category the twelfth category comprising an eleventh subsequent 10 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the twelfth category has a rating score of 4. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a thirteenth category following the twelfth category the thirteenth category comprising a twelfth subsequent 13 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the thirteenth category has a rating score of 3. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fourteenth category following the thirteenth category the fourteenth category comprising a thirteenth subsequent 13 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the fourteenth category has a rating score of 2. The plurality of categories of an embodiment comprise a fifteenth category following the fourteenth category the fifteenth category comprising a fourteenth subsequent 14 percent of investment positions according to the rating score wherein the fifteenth category has a rating score of 1.

The methodologies described above can be applied to rank the managers that manage the mutual funds. This results in rankings of mutual fund managers. If a fund manager managed more than one fund the manager s rank score is a weighted average of the funds managed by the manager as Rank Score where N is the total number of funds wis the weight assigned to fund i and Sis the score of Fund i. The weight corresponding to a fund is proportional to the assets under management for that particular fund as

The IDSS uses the security ratings along with portfolio data of members to provide or output performance data including investment recommendations to members under an embodiment. is a block diagram of the recommendation component of the IDSS coupled to receive security rankings and portfolio information or data under an embodiment. The recommendation component is generally configured to evaluate the security ratings with risk level asset allocation and stocks held by an investor compare a set of members using the ranking and security ratings and generate recommendations for the stocks held by the member in response to the comparisons. The recommendations include recommendations to certain investment vehicles based on the aggregate holdings of other individual members based on performance demographic characteristics and social networks.

Regarding recommendations the SS recommendation component uses the security rating data to analyze each member s portfolio and to calculate and monitor performance measures so that a member is provided data on his her portfolio returns risk level risk adjusted performance and ranking. The recommendation component uses data of a member s desired risk level e.g. selected entered by the member or calculated by the system asset allocation strategy and existing portfolio and compares it with the security ratings and provides recommendations on which stocks to sell e.g. sell F rated stocks and which to buy e.g. buy A rated or B rated stock based on desired risk level .

The IDSS of an embodiment provides recommendations including an index for all or a subset of IDSS members their portfolio holdings and performance for the purposes of measuring certain stock market performance. Similar to the Dow Jones Industrial Average Russell 5000 and the Standard and Poor s 500 to name a few the index also referred to as the individual investor index can provide relevant insights into the state of the stock market at a particular time. The index illustrates the relative performance of the MSS members across various cross sections of the IDSS membership for example all members or across a group based on rank. The index can be based on member data like current holdings positions bought and or positions sold but is not so limited. The Index could be licensed to third parties who might be interested in the real time and daily sentiment of the individual investing community.

As an example the IDSS of an embodiment provides an index that is formed based on a member s holdings. The IDSS forms the index for a member by setting a starting index value e.g. 100 on the first day of evaluation. The starting index value for purposes of this example is 100 but the starting index value is not limited to any particular value. Across section of the IDSS membership is selected for the index e.g. Elite group . The IDSS then identifies the current holdings of the selected group. On the second day the daily performance of the current as selected at the end of the first day holdings of the selected group is calculated. The performance is based on the increase or decrease in value of the holdings from the market close of the first day to the market close of the second day or in increments during the second day to provide intra day real time values of the index. The daily performance forms a performance percentage e.g. increase by 3 . The starting index value is adjusted by the performance percentage e.g. the adjusted or new index value is 103 100 multiplied by the quantity 1 0.03 . Likewise on the third day the performance percentage of the end of second day holdings of the selected group is calculated based on their value during and at the end of the third day and the index value of the second day is adjusted by the performance percentage. The index value adjustment proceeds on subsequent days as described above.

The IDSS components and can be components of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The IDSS components and can also be subcomponents or subsystems of a single system multiple systems and or geographically separate systems. The IDSS components and can be coupled to one or more other components not shown of a host system or a system coupled to the host system.

The IDSS components are configured and function individually and or collectively to provide data products or outputs as described herein including investor rankings security ratings risk adjusted portfolio performance and or buy sell recommendations as described in detail herein. The IDSS also includes portals and or couplings by which any number of members can access the data products relating to their individual accounts or portfolios as well as the accounts or portfolios of members to whom they are linked. The portals and or couplings of an embodiment include for example connections between a member s computer and the IDSS via a web site provided or hosted by the IDSS.

The IDSS includes any number of modules as described above that generate and or include aggregated data derived from the investment data transactional information and brokerage account information. As an example the IDSS modules of an embodiment include a Cake Take rating module as described above. As another example the IDSS modules of an embodiment include a performance index module or component also described herein as the Cakedex module. The Cakedex module generates and or includes the Cakedex as described in detail below.

The Cakedex module of the IDSS of an embodiment generates or produces a performance index or index referred to herein as Cakedex or Cake index to measure how a set of individual investors perform over time relative to one or more general market indices e.g. S P 500 Dow NASDAQ etc. and other commonly referenced benchmarks. The term Cakedex refers to a suite of securities funds or ETF groupings derived from the data described herein e.g. authentic historical transactions current holdings and real time trading activity of retirement and or brokerage accounts etc. and used to measure how certain individual investors perform over time relative to the general market indices.

Cakedex is constructed on a forward looking basis to track a hypothetical composite or aggregate portfolio or fund comprising the actual portfolios of a subset or pre specified set of IDSS members also referred to herein as index investors . The Cakedex of an embodiment tracks a hypothetical composite portfolio comprising the top N investors in a data set where the top N investors are identified based on rank score as described above. Cakedex does not take into account any transaction costs brokerage commissions taxes or other expenses related to its composition when measuring index performance. The index investors can include for example some number e.g. 10 50 100 1 000 etc. or percentage e.g. 1 5 10 20 etc. of top performers across all investment vehicles over one or more periods of time some number or percentage of top performers across one or more sets or groups of investment vehicles over one or more periods of time some number or percentage of top performers focused on technology stocks over one or more periods of time some number or percentage of worst performers across all investment vehicles over one or more periods of time some number or percentage of worst performers across one or more sets or groups of investment vehicles over one or more periods of time to name a few. The Cakedex index then follows the aggregate portfolio of the index investors for a period of time at which point the IDSS re evaluates and or rebalances the member base.

In operation using the investment data that the IDSS receives from investors and their respective brokerages the IDSS generates or calculates the rank score for these investors as described above and using the rank scores identifies a top set or pool of investors. The rank score can be generated using any rank method described herein e.g. using SR using IR using a combination of SR and IR etc. . The top pool of investors of an embodiment comprises the top 10 of investors but the embodiment is not limited to the top 10 . The IDSS generates a hypothetical composite portfolio the Cakedex comprising the portfolio holdings of the top pool of investors. Once a top pool of investors is identified performance of the set is tracked or followed for some number of months N N 1 irrespective of whether or not these investors remain as the top pool in subsequent months.

To calculate the weighted composition of the Cakedex following identification of the top pool of investors and thus the investment positions included in the Cakedex the IDSS calculates the percentage portfolio allocation across the different investment positions e.g. stocks mutual funds and Exchange Traded Funds ETFs for each investor in the top pool. For each investment position the IDSS calculates the average percentage by taking a weighted average percentage allocation for all investors in the top pool. The weighting is proportional to each investor s rank score. Thus the IDSS determines the weighted composition of the Cakedex as follows generate a weight for each investor s portfolio relative to the other investors in the top pool determine a weight of each investment position in each investor s portfolio relative to the other investment positions in that portfolio determine a weight of each investment position in the Cakedex by forming a first quantity by multiplying the weight of an investor s portfolio by the weight of an investment position in that investor s portfolio and summing across the top pool of investors the first quantity for the respective investment position for each investor holding that investment position. The composition of the Cakedex is calculated and updated on some time frequency e.g. daily weekly monthly some other period of time .

As an example a top pool of investors includes three 3 investors with their respective rank scores investor A with rank score 95 investor B with rank score 75 and investor C with rank score 45 . The weight for each investor s portfolio relative to the other investors in the top pool is calculated for the Cakedex hypothetical portfolio as follows Investor s portfolio has a weight of 95 95 75 45 44.18 Investor s portfolio has a weight of 75 95 75 45 34.88 Investor s portfolio has a weight of 45 95 75 45 20.93 . Suppose investor A and investor B each hold stock XYZ and investor C does not hold stock XYZ. Also assume for purposes of this example that 10 of investor A s portfolio is in XYZ and 5 of investor B s portfolio is in XYZ. Therefore the weighting of XYZ in the Cakedex is calculated to be 6.16 10 44.18 5 34.88 6.16 . An equal weighting approach would yield a 5 weighting.

The performance of the Cakedex is measured daily on a forward looking basis for some time period such as a month. On the first day of the following month the IDSS again evaluates the current pool in the data set calculates their rank scores and identifies the top pool of investors. The IDSS then recalculates the composition of the Cakedex based on factors that include changes to the holdings of such top investors and additions or subtractions to the pool of such investors but the embodiment is not so limited. This process is then repeated for successive months. Note that the investors who were in the top pool in the previous months up to N months ago where N months is the period for which the top investors are followed and are not in the top pool in the following month are still included in the top pool.

The Cakedex family of funds include one or more of the following or a combination of two or more of the following but the embodiment is not so limited Cakedex Index Aggregated holdings of top performing investors Cakedex Hidden Gems Aggregated least widely held best performing positions by certain investors Cakedex Balanced 50 of the N least widely held positions by certain investors 50 of the N most widely held positions Cakedex by Cake Take Comprised of all or the top N securities with a Cake Take of A A or A Cakedex funds by investor profession Cakedex funds by investor zipcode region Cakedex funds by investor age group Cakedex funds by investor goals play money college funds retirement trust etc. Cakedex funds by investor income range Cakedex long short strategy funds Cakedex funds by investor strategy buy and hold day trader market timer passive etc. Cakedex funds by investment style value growth balanced etc. Cakedex market cap funds large cap small cap mid cap Cakedex Sector funds Technology Basic Materials Healthcare etc. Cakedex funds by fundamental style value growth blend .

In addition to creating a Cakedex fund by investors as described above a Cakedex fund or index can be created to include funds instead of individual investment positions. The Cakedex fund created to include funds is generated by grading or ranking mutual funds in the same manner as described above for individual investors and then generating the Cakedex fund to include the top mutual funds based on any desired characteristic.

The IDSS of an embodiment enables member investor matching in that it allows a member to identify other members with whom he she has an investor relationship as measured by a pre specified criteria. is a flow diagram for investor matching using the IDSS under an embodiment. Components of the IDSS receive data inputs corresponding to members. The data inputs include data of investment strategies portfolio holdings watch lists transactions performance and assorted demographic data and other data as described above. Weights are assigned or selected for data components of the input data and a score is generated for each member based on the input data and the corresponding weights. A member is automatically matched to other members according to his her score. The matching is specific to criteria selected by the member requesting or controlling the matching. The results of the matching return information of members having the same score within a pre specified variance range as the member requesting the match.

The matching is specific to criteria selected by the member requesting or controlling the matching as described above. For example when the criteria is investment approach a member uses this criteria to control the matching based on how other members who share a similar investment approach are performing and what investments those other members are trading. The results of the match identify members having the same investment approach score within a pre specified variance range as the member requesting the match. In this manner a user can identify securities that he she may be interested in adding to his her portfolio.

The IDSS of an embodiment thus uses the ranking and rating data described above to provide real time automated highly customized investment advice to individual investors at a fraction of the cost of existing players. Leveraging the security rating described above the IDSS provides or suggests improvements to a member s existing portfolio by suggesting changes to current asset allocation or substitutions to current allocation with less risky higher performing positions explicitly based on a member s specific investment strategy. For example if a member currently owns a stock that the IDSS rates as an F the IDSS can suggest an alternative A rated position.

The recommendation engine of an embodiment helps investors optimize their investments by generating or producing a set of securities e.g. stocks ETFs mutual funds that mimics a target asset allocation while at the same time reducing the portfolio risk and expenses associated to mutual fund ETF fees and increasing portfolio return and diversification. The target asset allocation is decided by a level of risk tolerance but is not so limited.

The recommendation engine of an embodiment includes a mutual fund engine target asset allocation models and a fit score as described in detail herein. The mutual fund engine provides expense reduction to an investor by automatically identifying higher rated based on mutual fund Cake Take investment positions having lower associated fees and suggesting these substituted funds to investors based on the higher rating and lower fees. Because the fund ratings are calculated from fee adjusted returns the higher rated fund rated as described above under an embodiment of the IDSS generally provides superior returns even after accounting for fees. The higher rated investment positions provided as suggested substitutes under an embodiment are suggested within desired categories e.g. large cap energy technology international fixed income etc. . is an example output of the mutual fund engine of the recommendation engine under an embodiment.

The target asset allocation models driven by rank and risk metrics provide an investor with information of a gap analysis between target and current investments. The allocation models use the rank as described above to derive asset allocation models for different investor characteristics such as risk years to retirement and retirement shortfall and use that as another basis for investment recommendation and goal planning.

The asset allocation models use investor groupings to identify optimal asset allocation models for different levels of risk tolerances. These models are then used as target asset allocation models for all other investors. It has been found that derived asset allocation models from the investment data rival those systems of major brokerage firms and mutual fund companies. shows sample results of derived asset allocation models derived under an embodiment in view of results from major brokerage firms and mutual fund companies.

The IDSS of an embodiment then generates or calculates the difference between a particular investor s current allocation and a desired target allocation and reveals specific investment positions e.g. stocks mutual funds ETFs etc. that can fill the gap. is an example output showing the difference between a particular investor s current allocation and a desired target allocation under an embodiment.

The IDSS of an embodiment applies the asset allocation target models to identify sector level allocations for investors. is an example output showing application of the asset allocation target models to identify sector level allocations for investors under an embodiment. Thus within each sector the IDSS identifies investment positions that are highly rated by and are consistent with the target asset allocation at the desired or specified level of risk.

The recommendation engine provides a Fit Score that provides a personalized fit of a particular investment position e.g. stock fund ETF etc. for a particular investors current investments. The Fit Score is an objective measure that automatically calculates how well a particular investment position e.g. stock mutual fund ETF etc. fits into a particular portfolio and communicates to an investor the appropriateness of and the size for inclusion of a new holding. For any given portfolio once a risk tolerance and a target asset allocation has been determined the recommendation engine can identify the appropriateness of a stock mutual fund and or ETFs for a particular investor s portfolio. The new investment position must satisfy the given target asset allocation and have a high rating rating as described herein and in the case of mutual funds and ETFs also have low expense ratios.

Once such a set of investment positions is identified each investment security can be substituted into a portfolio and a simulation run that calculates allocation level risk and diversification measures for the new portfolio. The MSS can then automatically determine the fit score or how appropriate or not is the chosen position and what dollar value constitutes the ideal allocation.

The quality of the fit is measured by a number of components including but not limited to the following risk score diversification score stock fund rating score fees score. Each of the four components of the fit score has a value in the range of 1 to 5. These correspond to quintiles that are calculated based on all the data available to the IDSS. For instance for all portfolios linked to the IDSS a risk and a diversification measure are calculated. The portfolios in the top 20 highest risk are assigned a risk score of 1 the next subsequent 20 risk are assigned a risk score of 2 the next subsequent 20 risk get a score of 3 the next subsequent 20 risk are assigned a risk score of 4 and the next subsequent 20 risk get a score of 5.

In determining diversification score the portfolio in the bottom 20 for diversification get a diversification score of 1 the next subsequent 20 get a sore of 2 the next subsequent 20 get a sore of 3 the next subsequent 20 get a sore of 4 and the next subsequent 20 get a sore of 5.

For the rating score the IDSS uses the ratings themselves and every security having a rating of A A A gets a score of 5 securities rated B B B get a score of 4 securities rated C C C get a score of 3 securities rated D D D get a score of 2 and securities rated F F F get a score of 1.

For the fees score the IDSS uses the expense ratios for mutual funds and ETFs. Therefore the securities falling in the top 20 highest expense ratio get a score of 1 the next subsequent 20 get a score of 2 the next subsequent 20 get a score of 3 the next subsequent 20 get a score of 4 and the next subsequent 20 get a score of 5. All stocks are given a score of 5.

Each of the four scores risk score diversification score stock fund rating score fees score has a weight associated with it and the final Fit Score is the sum of the four component scores multiplied by their respective weights. The weight of an embodiment has a default value of 5. In an embodiment the weights corresponding to the risk score and diversification score are calculated dynamically for each portfolio using the following criteria if current portfolio risk score is less than 3 then risk weight is calculated as the quantity 8 new risk score and diversification weight is calculate as the quantity 10 risk weight if current portfolio risk score is equal to or greater than 3 and new risk score is equal to or greater than 3 and diversification score is less than 3 then diversification weight is calculated as the quantity 8 new diversification score and risk weight is calculate as the quantity 10 diversification weight . If these conditions are not satisfied then the default value is used. In this manner the IDSS can automatically determine if a contemplated new holding is or is not a fit.

The IDSS of an embodiment provides electronic search capabilities to members for searching a database of member investor information for the purposes of determining whether certain investment vehicles were previously or are currently held by other members. For example a member can search for other members using data of a name employer holdings performance zip code income levels education investing strategies and professional and or industry experience to name a few.

The networking or linking of members provided by the IDSS also enables automated sharing of authenticated investment information with other members including but not limited to sharing of investment returns holdings such as portfolios stock bond mutual fund exchange traded funds options and other publicly available investment vehicles as well as trading activity. As such members can allow other members of the IDSS community to access relevant investment information.

The sharing of investment information further enables members to establish private Investment Clubs. An investment Club is formed to include a set of members who share a common portfolio or investment vehicles. In contrast to ranking individual members the IDSS of an embodiment is configured to apply the ranking techniques described above to the collective membership of each Investment Club in order to generate club rankings for each Investment Club. The club rankings can then be compared and or used as described above in reference to individual member rankings.

The IDSS is also configured to enable members to tag the security holdings of certain other members to which they are linked for the purposes of easily and quickly monitoring their performance and progress. This can be done via a My Profile section of the IDSS website for example but is not so limited.

The IDSS enables a user to perform one or more of the following tag a web page of an Internet web site add an electronic link to a My Profile page of the IDSS web site automatically distribute electronic links news sources and communications or messages via e mail or instant messaging to members to whom the sending member is linked. As an example a member reading a blog about Apple Inc finds the article very informative as it mentions a new key feature that will allow Apple computers to run Windows. The user tags the URL of the blog posting or article and with one click sends the article to IDSS members that follow her portfolio.

The IDSS is configured to provide automated real time trading activity notifications of individual member trading activity to other members. This allows members to set up an automated notification system whereby they can view or be apprised of real time buy and sell activity of other members. This can take the form of a personal IDSS Stock Ticker where positions of all or certain IDSS members are displayed but is not so limited.

The IDSS enables automatic trading auto trade for example in response to the real time disclosure of trading activity between linked investors. Consequently the IDSS components can be configured to automatically mimic the trading activity e.g. buying the same stock of one member account in another account. Generally a member follower member can link his account to another member s account mentor . When the mentor buys stock in Apple Inc. any followers will automatically purchase the same number of shares in their accounts assuming sufficient funds.

More specifically a first member sells 100 shares of stock in Company X. Another member linked to the first member can configure her account to automatically sell 100 shares of stock in Company X in response to the real time notification of the linked member s trade activity. The automatic trading activity in response to linked investor data includes automatic trading in third party investment accounts e.g. with third party broker dealers and or registered investment advisers and or investment accounts provided on the platform.

With the advent of online trading in the early 1990 s to its now de facto method for buying and selling stocks for individuals the act of trading securities has never been easier cheaper and more accessible by millions of investors. It is hard to remember but only 10 years ago a single trade could cost 200 and a customer had to call an actual person on the phone to effect a transaction. Now with 5 trades going to free shrinking spreads and ubiquitous services offering real time trades customer satisfaction with act of trading online is very high.

However the context for investing by individuals has not changed with this technical evolution and the confusion of whether to buy sell or hold has proven to be suboptimal as the average investor underperforms most major market indices due to a variety of factors associated with trading. It has been proven by behavioral finance researchers that individuals hold on to underperforming holdings too long sell winners too early trade too often so as to increase their fees and taxes and have non diversified portfolios that increase their risk to dangerous levels. In a sense having the powerful capabilities of online trading so readily available it is actually making it more difficult for individual investors to be smart with their finances.

The IDSS changes this by making it relatively simple for individual investors to create a smart asset allocation plan that matches their risk levels and age to select the optimal holdings and to stay disciplined and on track across of their accounts. The IDSS of an embodiment enables an individual to effect a transaction from the IDSS platform to their accounts via a trading API of the IDSS.

The IDSS thus provides a personalized investment management platform that allows individual investors to manage all of their retirement and brokerage accounts from a central location and to get objective personalized actionable insights into how they can do better. Customers can connect an unlimited number of accounts to the IDSS and are not required to physically transfer their assets from their existing bank or brokerage firm to the IDSS in order to use the service. The IDSS seamlessly connects to retirement and brokerage accounts through its trading API and updates the investment data multiple times a day.

The IDSS of an embodiment enables and provides a platform for investing based on real brokerage information historical performance and trades. The IDSS enables individual investors to communicate and share their real brokerage information with one another without revealing personal information such as net worth the value of the portfolios or the number of shares owned. The IDSS does not require that individuals transfer their assets or open up a new account to take advantage of the platform. The IDSS allows seamless communication to occur amongst individuals and across the different online brokerage platforms. For example a couple where one spouse has an account at Fidelity and the other spouse has an E Trade account can seamlessly communicate via the IDSS as described herein.

With the IDSS platform individuals can see one another s portfolio holdings historical performance and trading activity. With the benefit of this unprecedented transparency into the actions of other individuals the IDSS compresses the time and effort that is currently required to go from conducting research i.e. which investments to buy or sell to taking action i.e. making a specific buy or sell in an account s .

Without the IDSS individual investors have few options in getting trusted help with managing their retirement and brokerage accounts and making trades. These options include but are not limited to paying an advisor or broker to make portfolio suggestions and or manage their investments for them making trades on their own at a discount online brokerage and or entering into a Legal Power of Attorney LPOA to empower another non professional to make trades in their account s on their behalf.

The IDSS includes a process and service for a new way to make trades in individuals existing brokerage account The IDSS will facilitate trading actions from its platform into individuals existing retirement and or brokerage accounts via a trading API and from any website or device and ultimately anywhere where people are consuming their IDSS information across the web such as Facebook third party distribution partners on mobile phones etc. .

The IDSS of an embodiment comprises a trading API that generates executes monitors and records trade orders across multiple different brokerages and accounts. Trades can be executed by the trading API either manually or they can be triggered by a variety of triggers for example not by the user e.g. sell a particular security when the price reaches a certain value etc. or algorithmic exposure to certain market sectors crosses a threshold limit or trades actions of other people etc.

Once a trade order has been initiated by one or more methods as described herein the trading API automatically issues a command to the broker dealer to initiate authentication of the trade. Then the trading API issues a command to execute the trade order. The trading API automatically issues aperiodic command to check the status of the trade order. Upon receiving a trade order response confirming the execution of the trade order the trading API automatically notifies the individual of the status. If the trade order gets rejected e.g. selling more security than held then the trading API automatically notifies the customer of the status and the reason.

The trading API also performs transaction reconciliation and order record keeping and an audit trail for full compliance. In so doing the trading API automatically reads back the order to a person submitting the order so they can verify that the broker properly understood the order instruction. Depending on the deployment configuration this would be performed by either the investor in question or by the trading API itself. The trading API also keeps a record of transactions.

There are numerous ways that the IDSS and trading API enable the cross platform community investing functionality from its platform to online brokerage accounts held by IDSS investor members. For example a member who has linked her brokerage account s to the IDSS and selects the Trade button on the IDSS website facilitates a transaction in her brokerage account s via the trading API. In another example an investor can set up a rule or series of rates that trigger a transaction from the IDSS into the investor s account. Furthermore a member who has linked her brokerage account s to the IDSS and is notified of an action by one or more other individual investors on the IDSS is given the option via the IDSS of making a similar trade in her own account s based on that activity.

As another example of the IDSS trading API enabling the cross platform investing functionality a member who has linked her brokerage accounts s to the IDSS can automatically via the IDSS make the same or similar trade as one or more IDSS members based on that activity. Additionally a member who has linked her brokerage account s to the IDSS and is notified of a change in the particular rating of a security allows the IDSS to facilitate trades to her account s on her behalf based upon that change. A further example allows a member who has linked her brokerage account s to the IDSS to allow the IDSS to facilitate trades to her account s on her behalf based upon IDSS derived algorithms based on the aggregated behavior of other IDSS members or predetermined criteria such as changes in asset allocation or pricing triggers. Moreover a member who has linked her brokerage account s to the IDSS can allow the IDSS to facilitate trades to her account s on her behalf based upon third party triggers e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. .

The IDSS can be used to automate trading and or provide additional trading and advisory products. For example the IDSS could provide packaged solutions in the form of automated portfolio management in which a member pays an annual advisory fee and the IDSS maintains an asset allocation model customized for that member s investment goals. The IDSS could also offer investment products like mutual funds by certain sectors and investment strategies thus creating a proprietary trading desk or IDSS mutual fund that seeks to capitalize on the IDSS aggregated data set through the inclusion of equities held by the highest ranked members and selling shares in the mutual fund to the public. Additionally the IDSS might provide a brokerage service including automatic trading.

Furthermore the IDSS can be coupled or partner with online brokerage firms who could add the IDSS to their proprietary system. Under this configuration the IDSS would be an option within the online brokerage site so that account data is automatically populated. Also the IDSS ranking system can be replicated within the partner environment to create a mutual fund of specific individuals that can be proprietary to specific partners.

Currently there is no platform for professional investment managers to be accredited based upon their actual historical performance. The IDSS however provides a professional accreditation ranking system allowing an independent third party to verify performance of professionals. This is similar to other services like Better Business Bureau BBB Online Consumer Reports and Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval to name a few.

Conventional fee systems and the corresponding opaque mechanisms for extracting these fees makes it difficult to hold investment advisors accountable for under performance. Investment advisory service fees of the IDSS can be based on the actual delta improvement over a particular benchmark traced to the given advice rather than on current industry practices of percentage of assets and or flat fees. Thus the IDSS includes a fee system under which a user pays nothing to the IDSS service if he she fails to meet certain benchmarks and pays a percentage of the incremental benefit of advice provided by or under the IDSS. Consequently the IDSS establishes an IDSS Universal Benchmark from an amalgam of major indices which will serve as the benchmark for calculating fees on an annual basis. Under this system if the IDSS Universal Benchmark was 4 for the year and a user generated an 8 return his her fees would be some percentage of the 4 in incremental returns he she generated presumably because of the IDSS.

The embodiments described herein include a method for generating a performance index the method using a processor based investment system. The method of an embodiment comprises generating a rank score for each investor relative to a plurality of investors of which the investor is a member the generating of the rank score using investment data of a portfolio of the investor wherein the portfolio comprises at least one investment position. The method of an embodiment comprises selecting a set of investors from the plurality of investors the selecting based on the rank score of each investor of the plurality of investors. The method of an embodiment comprises generating the performance index to provide a measure of performance of top individual investors over time relative to a market index the generating of the performance index comprising generating a composite portfolio comprising investment positions of each portfolio of each investor of the set of investors.

Generating the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining a portfolio weight for the portfolio of each investor wherein the portfolio weight is relative to other investors of the set of investors.

Generating the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining an investment weight of each investment position in the portfolio of each investor wherein the investment weight is relative to other investment positions in the portfolio.

Generating the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining a weight of each investment position in the performance index.

Determining the weight of each investment position in the performance index of an embodiment comprises forming a first quantity for each investment position in a portfolio of an investor by multiplying the portfolio weight of the portfolio by the investment weight of the investment position.

Determining the weight of each investment position in the performance index of an embodiment comprises summing across the portfolios of the set of investors the first quantity for all like investment positions.

The method of an embodiment comprises tracking performance of the set of investors born period of time.

Periodically updating of an embodiment comprises accounting for changes to at least one of the portfolios and the set of investors.

Periodically updating of an embodiment comprises accounting for changes to contents of the portfolio of each investor of the set of investors.

Periodically updating of an embodiment comprises accounting for changes to investors in the set of investors.

The set of investors of an embodiment comprises the top N percentage of investors of the plurality of investors wherein N is any number that is greater than zero.

The market index of an embodiment includes at least one of Standard and Poor s S P 500 S P 500 Dow Jones Industrial Average DEA and National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Operations NASDAQ .

The rank score of an embodiment ranks the investor relative to other investors based upon the investment data.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises generating the rank score for each investor by combining a skill score a persistence score and a confidence score corresponding to the investor.

The skill score of an embodiment represents an Information Ratio IR of the investor wherein the IR represents active return on the investment position adjusted for risk.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score wherein generating the skill score comprises calculating the IR of each investor.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum IR among the plurality of investors. Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating a first interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum IR from the IR of each investor.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum first interim score of the plurality of investors. Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating a second interim score for each investor by dividing the first interim score by the maximum first interim score.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating a base score for each investor by multiplying the second interim score by 100.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score for each investor by applying a tenure factor to the base score.

The tenure factor of an embodiment comprises scales down the base score for each investor having an investing tenure equal to or less than two 2 years.

The tenure factor of an embodiment has a value of 1.0 when the investor has an investing tenure greater than two 2 years.

The tenure factor of an embodiment has a value determined by the formula 0.2 0.7 tenure 1.75 when the investor has an investing tenure equal to or less than two 2 years.

The tenure factor of an embodiment has a value of 0.3 when the investor has an investing tenure less than three 3 months.

The skill score of an embodiment represents a Sharpe Ratio SR and an Information Ratio IR of the investor.

The SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises an average of an excess monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the excess monthly return.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating an excess monthly return for the investor thr each month of a period.

Calculating the excess monthly return of an embodiment comprises subtracting a risk free return from a monthly return.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating an average of the excess monthly return for the period.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating a standard deviation of the excess monthly return for the period.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises dividing the average of the excess monthly return by the standard deviation of the excess monthly return.

The IR of an investor of an embodiment comprises an average of a weighted excess active monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the weighted excess active monthly return.

Calculating the IR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating an excess active monthly return for the investor for each month of a period.

Calculating the excess active monthly return of an embodiment comprises subtracting a benchmark return from a monthly return.

The method of an embodiment comprises receiving the benchmark return from a benchmark the benchmark comprising at least one of Standard and Poor s S P 500 S P 500 Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA and National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Operations NASDAQ .

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted excess active monthly return by applying a weighting function to the excess active monthly return for the period.

The weighting function of an embodiment is at least one of a constant a linear function and an exponential function.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating an average of un weighted excess active monthly returns for the period.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises calculating a standard deviation of the excess active monthly returns for the period.

Calculating the SR of an investor of an embodiment comprises dividing the weighted excess active monthly return by the standard deviation of the excess active monthly returns.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises calculating a Final Ratio FR of each investor representing the IR and the SR of the investor.

Calculating the FR of each investor of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average of the IR and the SR.

Normalizing the FR of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum FR of the plurality of investors. Normalizing the FR of an embodiment comprises generating a first interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum FR from the FR of each investor.

Normalizing the FR of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum FR of the plurality of investors. Normalizing the FR of an embodiment comprises generating a second interim score for each investor by dividing the first interim score by the maximum FR.

Normalizing the FR of an embodiment comprises generating a base skill score for each investor by multiplying the second interim score by 100.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score for each investor by applying a tenure factor to the base skill score.

The tenure factor of an embodiment has a value of 1.0 when the investor has an investing tenure greater than two 2 years.

The tenure factor of an embodiment has a value of 0.3 when the investor has an investing tenure less than three 3 months.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score wherein the persistence score represents skill of the investor relative to a benchmark.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises determining a winning score for each investor as a number of times the investor outperformed a benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a mean for each investor using a number of trials wherein the number of trials is a sum of a number of times the investor outperformed the benchmark and a number of times the investor failed to outperform the benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a standard deviation of the number of trials for each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a distance from the mean for each investor as a first quantity divided by the standard deviation wherein the first quantity is determined by subtracting the mean from the winning score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a delta score for each investor by exponentiating the distance.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum delta score among the delta scores of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a third interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum delta score from the delta score of each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum third interim score of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a fourth interim score for each investor by dividing the third interim score of each investor by the maximum third interim score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score for each investor by multiplying the fourth interim score by 100.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score wherein the confidence score represents an investment win percentage relative to an investment loss percentage.

Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average win percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average loss percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score as a ratio of the weighted average win percentage to the weighted average loss percentage.

Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a first quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage gain for the investment position wherein the first quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a second quantity by summing each first quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average win percentage by dividing the second quantity by a total number of investment positions that outperformed the benchmark.

Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a third quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage loss for the investment position wherein the third quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a fourth quantity by summing each third quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average loss percentage by dividing the third quantity by a total number of investment positions that underperformed the benchmark.

The method of an embodiment comprises establishing a portfolio value for the portfolio at a time when the investment position is entered. The method of an embodiment comprises using the portfolio value to establish the percentage gain and the percentage loss.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score for each trade during each period of time of a plurality of periods of time.

The method of an embodiment comprises normalizing the confidence score such that the confidence score is in a range of zero 0 to 100.

The confidence score of an embodiment represents for each investor a magnitude of outperforming a benchmark when the investment position outperforms relative to a magnitude of failing to outperform the benchmark when the investment position underperforms.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises generating a weighted average of the skill score the persistence score and the confidence score.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a skill component by multiplying the skill score by a first weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a persistence component by multiplying the persistence score by a second weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a confidence component by multiplying the confidence score by a third weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises calculating the rank score by summing the skill component the persistence component and the confidence component.

The method of an embodiment comprises receiving investment data of at least one of each investor and the investment position.

The investment position of an embodiment includes at least one of a security a mutual fund and an ETF.

Embodiments described herein include a method for generating a performance index the method using a processor based investment system. The method of an embodiment comprises generating a rank score for each investor relative to a plurality of investors of which the investor is a member the rank score comprising at least one of a skill score a persistence score and a confidence score of the investor. The method of an embodiment comprises selecting a set of investors from the plurality of investors based on the rank score. The method of an embodiment comprises generating the performance index to provide a measure of performance of investors over time relative to a market index the generating of the performance index comprising generating a composite portfolio comprising investment positions of each portfolio of each investor of the set of investors.

Embodiments described herein include a system comprising a processor a ranking component executing under the processor the ranking component generating a rank score for each investor relative to a plurality of investors of which the investor is a member the generating of the rank score using investment data of a portfolio of the investor wherein the portfolio comprises at least one investment position a performance index component executing under the processor the performance index component selecting a set of investors from the plurality of investors the selecting based on the rank score of each investor of the plurality of investors the performance index component generating the performance index to provide a measure of performance of top individual investors over time relative to a market index the generating of the performance index comprising generating a composite portfolio comprising investment positions of each portfolio of each investor of the set of investors.

Generating of the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining a portfolio weight for the portfolio of each investor wherein the portfolio weight is relative to other investors of the set of investors.

Generating of the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining an investment weight of each investment position in the portfolio of each investor wherein the investment weight is relative to other investment positions in the portfolio.

Generating of the performance index of an embodiment comprises determining a weight of each investment position in the performance index.

Determining of the weight of each investment position in the performance index of an embodiment comprises forming a first quantity for each investment position in a portfolio of an investor by multiplying the portfolio weight of the portfolio by the investment weight of the investment position.

Determining of the weight of each investment position in the performance index of an embodiment comprises summing across the portfolios of the set of investors the first quantity for all like investment positions.

The performance index component of an embodiment periodically updates a composition of the performance index.

The periodically updating of an embodiment comprises accounting for changes to at least one of the portfolios and the set of investors.

The periodically updating of an embodiment comprises accounting for changes to at least one of contents of the portfolio of each investor of the set of investors and accounting for changes to investors in the set of investors.

The rank score of an embodiment ranks the investor relative to other investors based upon the investment data wherein generating the rank score comprises generating the rank score for each investor by combining a skill score a persistence score and a confidence score corresponding to the investor.

The skill score of an embodiment represents an Information Ratio IR of the investor wherein the IR represents active return on the investment position adjusted for risk.

The skill score of an embodiment represents a Sharpe Ratio SR and an Information Ratio IR of the investor.

The system of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score wherein generating the skill score comprises calculating the SR of each investor wherein the SR of an investor comprises an average of an excess monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the excess monthly return.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises calculating the IR of each investor wherein the IR of an investor comprises an average of a weighted excess active monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the weighted excess active monthly return.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises calculating a Final Ratio FR of each investor representing the IR and the SR of the investor wherein calculating the FR of each investor comprises calculating a weighted average of the IR and the SR wherein generating the skill score comprises normalizing the FR.

The system of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score wherein the persistence score represents skill of the investor relative to a benchmark.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises determining a winning score for each investor as a number of times the investor outperformed a benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a mean for each investor using a number of trials wherein the number of trials is a sum of a number of times the investor outperformed the benchmark and a number of times the investor failed to outperform the benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a standard deviation of the number of trials for each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a distance from the mean for each investor as a first quantity divided by the standard deviation wherein the first quantity is determined by subtracting the mean from the winning score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a delta score for each investor by exponentiating the distance.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum delta score among the delta scores of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a third interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum delta score from the delta score of each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum third interim score of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a fourth interim score for each investor by dividing the third interim score of each investor by the maximum third interim score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score for each investor by multiplying the fourth interim score by 100.

The system of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score wherein the confidence score represents an investment win percentage relative to an investment loss percentage.

Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average win percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average loss percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score as a ratio of the weighted average win percentage to the weighted average loss percentage.

Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a first quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage gain for the investment position wherein the first quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a second quantity by summing each first quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average win percentage by dividing the second quantity by a total number of investment positions that outperformed the benchmark.

Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a third quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage loss for the investment position wherein the third quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a fourth quantity by summing each third quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average loss percentage by dividing the third quantity by a total number of investment positions that underperformed the benchmark.

The system of an embodiment comprises establishing a portfolio value for the portfolio at a time when the investment position is entered. The system of an embodiment comprises using the portfolio value to establish the percentage gain and the percentage loss.

The system of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score for each trade during each period of time of a plurality of periods of time.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises generating a weighted average of the skill score the persistence score and the confidence score.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a skill component by multiplying the skill score by a first weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a persistence component by multiplying the persistence score by a second weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a confidence component by multiplying the confidence score by a third weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises calculating the rank score by summing the skill component the persistence component and the confidence component.

The system of an embodiment comprises receiving investment data of at least one of each investor and the investment position wherein the investment data includes historical data and real time data wherein the real time data comprises trade data of the investment position.

Embodiments described herein include a method comprising forming an electronic network between a plurality of investors wherein the electronic network includes a coupling to portfolios and online brokerage accounts of the plurality of investors. The method of an embodiment comprises sharing between the plurality of investors via the electronic network at least one of investment data and brokerage data wherein the investment data comprises data of the portfolios wherein a portfolio comprises at least one investment position wherein the brokerage data comprises data of the brokerage accounts. The method of an embodiment comprises executing a first action involving an investment position in at least one of a first portfolio and a first brokerage account of a first investor of the plurality of investors wherein the executing is in response to the at least one of the investment data and brokerage data indicating a second action taken in at least one of a second portfolio and a second brokerage account of at least one second investor of the plurality of investors.

Executing of the first action of an embodiment comprises receiving an auto notification of the second action taken in the second portfolio.

Executing of the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification presenting an action option to the first investor of taking the first action in the first portfolio.

Executing of the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification presenting an action option to the first investor of taking the first action in the first brokerage account.

Executing of the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification automatically taking the first action in the first portfolio.

Executing of the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification automatically taking the first action in the first brokerage account.

The second action of an embodiment involves a second investment position that is equivalent to the first investment position.

The second action of an embodiment involves a second investment position that is identical to the first investment position.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a command to a broker to initiate authentication of the trade wherein the broker controls the brokerage account.

The executing of an embodiment comprises periodically issuing a command to check status of the trade.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a notification message to the investor upon completion of the trade.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a status message to the investor advising of status of the trade.

The first action of an embodiment is a transaction option wherein the transaction option includes at least one of a buy option and a sell option corresponding to an investment position.

The first action of an embodiment is a transaction recommendation wherein the transaction recommendation includes at least one of a buy recommendation and a sell recommendation corresponding to an investment position.

The method of an embodiment comprises aggregating the investment data of the portfolios and the online brokerage accounts.

The method of an embodiment comprises aggregating the investment data to include data of the online brokerage accounts.

The method of an embodiment comprises ranking each investor relative to every other investor of the plurality of investors using a rank score the ranking according to investment performance derived from the investment data.

The rank score of an embodiment ranks the investor relative to other investors based upon the investment data wherein generating the rank score comprises generating the rank score for each investor by combining a skill score a persistence score and a confidence score corresponding to the investor.

The skill score of an embodiment represents a Sharpe Ratio SR and an Information Ratio IR of the investor.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the skill score wherein generating the skill score comprises calculating the SR of each investor wherein the SR of an investor comprises an average of an excess monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the excess monthly return.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises calculating the IR of each investor wherein the IR of an investor comprises an average of a weighted excess active monthly return divided by a standard deviation of the weighted excess active monthly return.

Generating the skill score of an embodiment comprises calculating a Final Ratio FR of each investor representing the IR and the SR of the investor wherein calculating the FR of each investor comprises calculating a weighted average of the IR and the SR wherein generating the skill score comprises normalizing the FR.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score wherein the persistence score represents skill of the investor relative to a benchmark.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises determining a winning score for each investor as a number of times the investor outperformed a benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a mean for each investor using a number of trials wherein the number of trials is a sum of a number of times the investor outperformed the benchmark and a number of times the investor failed to outperform the benchmark. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a standard deviation of the number of trials for each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a distance from the mean for each investor as a first quantity divided by the standard deviation wherein the first quantity is determined by subtracting the mean from the winning score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a delta score for each investor by exponentiating the distance.

Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a minimum delta score among the delta scores of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a third interim score for each investor by subtracting the minimum delta score from the delta score of each investor. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises identifying a maximum third interim score of the plurality of investors. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating a fourth interim score for each investor by dividing the third interim score of each investor by the maximum third interim score. Generating the persistence score of an embodiment comprises generating the persistence score for each investor by multiplying the fourth interim score by 100.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score wherein the confidence score represents an investment win percentage relative to an investment loss percentage.

Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average win percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises calculating a weighted average loss percentage for a portfolio of each investor. Generating the confidence score of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score as a ratio of the weighted average win percentage to the weighted average loss percentage.

Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a first quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage gain for the investment position wherein the first quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a second quantity by summing each first quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position outperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average win percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average win percentage by dividing the second quantity by a total number of investment positions that outperformed the benchmark.

Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a third quantity by multiplying a percentage of the investment position in the portfolio and a percentage loss for the investment position wherein the third quantity is calculated for each period of time of a plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed a benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating a fourth quantity by summing each third quantity for all periods of time of the plurality of periods of time for which the investment position underperformed the benchmark. Calculating the weighted average loss percentage of an embodiment comprises calculating the weighted average loss percentage by dividing the third quantity by a total number of investment positions that underperformed the benchmark.

The method of an embodiment comprises establishing a portfolio value for the portfolio at a time when the investment position is entered. The method of an embodiment comprises using the portfolio value to establish the percentage gain and the percentage loss.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating the confidence score for each trade during each period of time of a plurality of periods of time.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises generating a weighted average of the skill score the persistence score and the confidence score.

Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a skill component by multiplying the skill score by a first weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a persistence component by multiplying the persistence score by a second weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises forming a confidence component by multiplying the confidence score by a third weight. Generating the rank score of an embodiment comprises calculating the rank score by summing the skill component the persistence component and the confidence component.

The method of an embodiment comprises generating security ratings for securities held by the plurality of investors using the ranking and the investment data.

Generating the security ratings of an embodiment comprises identifying a set of investors corresponding to each investment position of a plurality of investment positions wherein each investor of the set of investors owns the investment position. Generating the security ratings of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating the rank score for each investor the rank score categorizing the investors for a time period of a plurality of time periods. Generating the security ratings of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating an average rank score for the period of time. Generating the security ratings of an embodiment comprises for each set of investors generating a trailing rank score by averaging the rank scores across the plurality of periods of time. Generating the security ratings of an embodiment comprises generating a stock rating score for each investment position by combining the average rank score and the trailing rank score of the set of investors corresponding to the investment position.

The first action of an embodiment comprises generating customized recommendations corresponding to the investment position in the at least one of the first portfolio and the first brokerage account of the first investor the customized recommendations considering at least one of investment performance derived from the investment data the rankings and the security ratings.

The investment data of an embodiment comprises data of current investment holdings historical investment holdings historical investment performance data historical transactional data and watch lists.

Embodiments described herein include a method comprising electronically linking an investment platform to a plurality of investors a plurality of brokerage accounts of the plurality of investors and a plurality of portfolios of the plurality of investors wherein a portfolio comprises at least one investment position. The method of an embodiment comprises sharing between the plurality of investors via the investment platform at least one of portfolio data of the plurality of portfolios and brokerage data of the plurality of brokerage accounts. The method of an embodiment comprises automatically conducting operations involving at least one of the plurality of portfolios and the plurality of brokerage accounts in response to at least one of the portfolio data and the brokerage data.

Embodiments described herein include a method comprising electronically linking an investment platform to a plurality of investors a plurality of brokerage accounts of the plurality of investors and a plurality of portfolios of the plurality of investors wherein a portfolio comprises at least one investment position. The method of an embodiment comprises sharing between the plurality of investors via the investment platform at least one of portfolio data of the plurality of portfolios and brokerage data of the plurality of brokerage accounts. The method of an embodiment comprises automatically conducting operations in at least one of the plurality of portfolios and the plurality of brokerage accounts in response to at least one of the portfolio data and the brokerage data.

Embodiments described herein include an investment system comprising a processor and a plurality of couplings between the processor and a plurality of investors a plurality of brokerage accounts of the plurality of investors and a plurality of portfolios of the plurality of investors wherein a portfolio comprises at least one investment position the processor sharing at least one of portfolio data of the plurality of portfolios and brokerage data of the plurality of brokerage accounts among the plurality of investors the processor automatically conducting operations involving at least one of the plurality of portfolios and the plurality of brokerage accounts in response to at least one of the portfolio data and the brokerage data.

Embodiments described herein include a system comprising a processor coupled to a trading application programming interface API wherein the trading API is coupled to portfolios and online brokerage accounts of a plurality of investors the processor sharing between the plurality of investors via the electronic network at least one of investment data and brokerage data wherein the investment data comprises data of the portfolios wherein a portfolio comprises at least one investment position wherein the brokerage data comprises data of the brokerage accounts the trading API executing a first action involving an investment position in at least one of a first portfolio and a first brokerage account of a first investor of the plurality of investors wherein the executing is in response to the at least one of the investment data and brokerage data indicating a second action taken in at least one of a second portfolio and a second brokerage account of at least one second investor of the plurality of investors. The trading API executing the first action of an embodiment comprises receiving an automatic notification of the second action taken in the second portfolio.

The trading API executing the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification presenting an action option to the first investor of taking the first action in the first portfolio.

The trading API executing the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification presenting an action option to the first investor of taking the first action in the first brokerage account.

The trading API executing the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification automatically taking the first action in the first portfolio.

The trading API executing the first action of an embodiment comprises in response to the notification automatically taking the first action in the first brokerage account.

The second action of an embodiment involves a second investment position that is equivalent to the first investment position.

The second action of an embodiment involves a second investment position that is identical to the first investment position.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a command to a broker to initiate authentication of the trade wherein the broker controls the brokerage account.

The executing of an embodiment comprises periodically issuing a command to check status of the trade.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a notification message to the investor upon completion of the trade.

The executing of an embodiment comprises automatically issuing a status message to the investor advising of status of the trade.

The first action of an embodiment is a transaction option wherein the transaction option includes at least one of a buy option and a sell option corresponding to an investment position.

The first action of an embodiment is a transaction recommendation wherein the transaction recommendation includes at least one of a buy recommendation and a sell recommendation corresponding to an investment position.

The processor of an embodiment aggregates the investment data of the portfolios and the online brokerage accounts.

The processor of an embodiment aggregates the investment data to include data of the online brokerage accounts.

Aspects of the IDSS described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the IDSS include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the IDSS may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

It should be noted that any system method and or other components disclosed herein may be described using computer aided design tools and expressed or represented as data and or instructions embodied in various computer readable media in terms of their behavioral register transfer logic component transistor layout geometries and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and or instructions through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and or instructions by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP FTP SMTP etc. . When received within a computer system via one or more computer readable media such data and or instruction based expressions of the above described components may be processed by a processing entity e.g. one or more processors within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of embodiments of the IDSS is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the IDSS are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the IDSS provided herein can be applied to other systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the IDSS in light of the above detailed description.

In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the IDSS to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all systems that operate under the claims. Accordingly the IDSS is not limited by the disclosure but instead the scope of the IDSS is to be determined entirely by the claims.

While certain aspects of the IDSS are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the IDSS in any number of claim forms. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the IDSS.

