---

title: Mobile activity manager
abstract: A computer-implemented method for handling a microflow includes receiving a workflow request that includes a task associated with the workflow and a contact address associated with the task, performing an operation associated with receiving the workflow request that includes at least one of opening a communication session with the contact address and sending a response to the workflow request to the contact address. The method further includes storing the task, prioritizing the task, and performing an operation associated with execution of the workflow including at least one of opening a communications session with the contact address, sending a status associated with performance of the task, and sending a completion status of the task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620709&OS=08620709&RS=08620709
owner: Avaya, Inc
number: 08620709
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120213
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 441 781 filed Feb. 11 2011 which is incorporated by reference.

The systems and methods described below relate generally to the field of task management systems that include communication functionality. More particularly the systems and methods relate to facilitating collaboration between parties by integrating communication aspects into a task workflow system.

The systems and methods described here combine workflow and task management features with collaborative communication capabilities to provide an integrated task management system. The task management system consolidates tasks messages alerts and notifications for workers and facilitates communications between parties. The task management system can use contextually available information relating to the tasks messages alerts notifications and communications to optimize efficiency and ensure that tasks and messages are prioritized and timely completed.

A computer implemented method for handling a microflow comprises receiving a workflow request at a processor that includes a task associated with the microflow and a contact address associated the task performing an operation associated with receiving the workflow request that includes at least one of opening a communication session with the contact address at the processor and sending a response to the workflow request addressed to the contact address from the processor storing the task in a workflow queue in a memory prioritizing the task at the processor and performing an operation at the processor that is associated with execution of the microflow and that includes at least one of opening a communication session with the contact address sending a status associated with performance of the task and sending a completion status of the task.

The computer implemented method can use a response selected from at least one of an acceptance of the workflow request an inquiry regarding the workflow request a rejection of the workflow request and a request to defer an acceptance of the workflow request. The communication session the response the status and the completion status can be transmitted in accordance with a medium selected from the group consisting of a text message a multimedia message an email message a voice call a video call a conference call a web based session using a uniform resource locator and a call to an interactive voice response system.

The computer implemented method can include an operation associated with execution of the microflow for presenting the task at a human machine interface and can include displaying an icon associated with the type of task displaying a shape associated with a priority of the task displaying a color coding associated with the priority of the task displaying a shading associated with the priority of the task displaying an alert presenting an audible message about the task presenting an audible alert and presenting a vibratory alert. The computing implemented method can further include an operation associated with execution of the microflow for receiving a selection of the task at a human machine interface and sending at least one of a call request and a message to the contact address associated with the task from the processor.

In the computer implemented method the workflow request can also include at least one of a requested priority a requested start time a requested completion time a requested length of time to complete the task and a location for performance of the task. Also the task can be prioritized based at least in part on at least one of the requested start time the requested completion time the requested length of time to complete the task and a priority based at least in part on at least one of the requested priority a priority set by a user override and a priority set in accordance to at least one of a business policy rule associated with the task and a regulatory compliance rule associated with the task.

The computer implemented method can further comprise presenting the workflow request at a human machine interface and receiving an input for responding to the workflow request at the human machine interface. The response to the workflow request is based at least in part upon the input. The computer implemented method can further comprise receiving a message that includes at least one of a rescind notification of the workflow request a reprioritization of the task and a notification to remove the task from the workflow queue.

A computer readable storage medium has computer executable instructions stored thereon to instruct a processor to perform a method that comprises sending to a first recipient a workflow request that is associated with a microflow and that includes a task and a contact address for addressing a message related to the task receiving a response to the workflow request receiving a status associated with performance of the task and logging in a memory at least one of the workflow request a timestamp associated with sending the workflow request the response to the workflow request a timestamp associated with receiving the response the status associated with performance of the task and a timestamp associated with receiving the status.

The processor can further perform the operations of escalating the workflow request at the expiration of an escalation timer and prior to receiving a least one of a response to the workflow request and a status associated with performance of the task and sending the workflow request to a second recipient. The second recipient is selected from the group consisting of an originator of the workflow request an alternate recipient of the workflow request a peer group associated with the first recipient a peer group associated with the second recipient and an administrator. The workflow request can include at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of an address of a first recipient an identification of the type of task an address associated with the contact address a preferred medium associated with the contact address a requested priority a requested start time a requested completion time a requested length of time to complete the task and a location for performance of the task. The processor can change the parameter in accordance to at least one of a business policy rule associated with the task and a regulatory compliance rule associated with the task.

A system for handling a microflow comprises a computing device having a processor configured to receive a workflow request that is associated with the microflow that includes a task and a contact address associated with the task perform an operation associated with receiving the workflow request that includes at least one of opening a communication session with the contact address and sending a response to the workflow request that is addressed to the contact address store the task in a workflow queue prioritize the task and perform an operation associated with execution of the microflow that includes at least one of opening a communication session with the contact address sending a status associated with performance of the task and sending a completion status of the task. The system further comprises a memory configured to store a workflow queue and a communications interface configured to handle at least one of the communication session and a message. In a configuration the computing device is a mobile computing device and the communications interface is a wireless communications interface.

In the system the response can be selected from at least one of an acceptance of the workflow request an inquiry regarding the workflow request a rejection of the workflow request and a request to defer an acceptance of the workflow request. The system can further comprise a human machine interface that can include a display configured to present at least one of the workflow request the task the contact address a display of an icon associated with the type of task a display of a shape associated with a priority of the task a display of a color associated with the priority of the task a display of a shading associated with the priority of the task and a display of an alert an audible element configured to present at least one of an audible message about the task and an audible alert a vibratory element configured to present a vibratory alert and an input means for accepting an input.

The processor can be configured to present the workflow request using the human machine interface and receive an input from the human machine interface. The response to the workflow request can be based at least in part upon the input. The workflow request can include at least one of a requested priority a requested start time a requested completion time a requested length of time to complete the task and a location for performance of the task. The processor can be further configured to prioritize the task based at least in part on the requested start time the requested completion time the requested length of time to complete the task and a priority based at least in part on at least one of the requested priority a priority set by a user override and priority set in accordance to at least one of a business policy rule associated with the task and a regulatory compliance rule associated with the task. The message can be the response the status the completion status and an inquiry associated with the task and the medium for the message can be selected from the group consisting of a text message a multimedia message an email message a voice call a video call a conference call a web based session using a uniform resource locator and a call to an interactive voice response system.

The apparatuses devices systems and methods disclosed and described in this document can be used to handle task management aspects and communication aspects of an integrated task management system. Those of ordinary skill in this art area will recognize from reading this description that the apparatuses devices methods and systems described can be applied to or easily modified for use with other types of equipment other arrangements of computing systems such as client server peer to peer or distributed systems other protocols and at other layers in communication protocol stacks.

Throughout this disclosure references to components or modules generally refer to items that logically can be grouped together to perform a function or group of related functions. Like reference numerals are generally intended to refer to the same or similar components. Components and modules can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The term software is used expansively to include not only executable code but also data structures data stores and computing instructions in any electronic format firmware and embedded software. The terms information and data are used expansively and includes a wide variety of electronic information including but not limited to machine executable or machine interpretable instructions content such as text video data and audio data among others and various codes or flags. The terms information data and content are sometimes used interchangeably when permitted by context. It should be noted that although for clarity and to aid in understanding some examples discussed below might describe specific features or functions as part of a specific component or module or as occurring at a specific layer of a computing device for example a hardware layer operating system layer or application layer those features or functions may be implemented as part of a different component or module or at a different layer.

The examples discussed below are examples only and are provided to assist in the explanation of the apparatuses devices systems and methods described herein. None of the features or components shown in the drawings or discussed below should be taken as mandatory for any specific implementation of any of these the apparatuses devices systems or methods unless specifically designated as mandatory. For ease of reading and clarity certain components modules or methods may be described solely in connection with a specific figure. Any failure to specifically describe a combination or sub combination of components should not be understood as an indication that any combination or sub combination is not possible. Also for any methods described regardless of whether the method is described in conjunction with a flow diagram it should be understood that unless otherwise specified or required by context any explicit or implicit ordering of steps performed in the execution of a method does not imply that those steps must be performed in the order presented but instead may be performed in a different order or in parallel.

The computing device also includes one or more memories for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM cache memory associated with the processor or other memories such as dynamic RAM DRAM static ram SRAM flash memory a removable memory card or disk a solid state drive and so forth. The computing device also includes storage media such as a storage device that can be configured to have multiple modules such as magnetic disk drives floppy drives tape drives hard drives optical drives and media magneto optical drives and media compact disk drives Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW a suitable type of Digital Versatile Disk DVD or BluRay disk and so forth. Storage media such as flash drives solid state hard drives redundant array of individual disks RAID virtual drives networked drives and other memory means including storage media on the processor or memories are also contemplated as storage device .

The memory processor and storage drive can include nonvolatile memory for storing computer readable instructions data data structures program modules code microcode and other software components for storing the computer readable instructions in non transitory computer readable mediums in connection with the other hardware components for carrying out the methodologies described herein. Software components can include source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code or any other suitable type of code or computer instructions implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled or interpreted programming language.

In various configurations the computing device can include a system bus for interconnecting the various components of the computing device or the computing device can be integrated into one or more chips such as programmable logic device or application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The system bus can include a memory controller a local bus or a peripheral bus for supporting input devices output devices or communication interfaces . Example input devices and output devices include keyboards keypads gesture or graphical input devices motion input devices touchscreen interfaces displays audio units voice recognition units vibratory devices computer mice and any other suitable user interface.

The communication interface allows the computing device to communicate with other device across a network. The communication interface can be an Ethernet interface a radio interface a telephony interface a Universal Serial Bus USB interface or any other suitable communications interface. Example communication interfaces can includes wired data transmission links such as Ethernet and TCP IP as well as PSTN communications links such as Tls or better integrated services digital network ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or dialup modems that implement for example the point to point protocol PPP . The communication interface can include wireless protocols for interfacing with private or public networks. For example the communication interface and protocols can include interfaces for communicating with private wireless networks such as a WiFi network one of the IEEE 802.11x family of networks or another suitable wireless network. The communication interface and protocols can include interfaces for communicating with public wireless networks such as cellular networks.

The task management system can be configured to use secure communication protocols such as Internet Protocol security IPsec Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS secure hypertext transfer protocol HTTPS 1.1 or any other suitable encrypted protocol. Encryption can also be performed using a suitable type of cipher including a private key cipher a symmetric private key cipher a public key cipher and an elliptic curve cipher among others. Specifically encryption can be implemented using the Advanced Encryption Standard AES the Data Encryption Standard DES triple DES 3DES or another suitable cipher.

The task management system can include a first mobile computing device a second mobile computing device an administrative computing device a workflow server a data store and an interactive voice response system . As will be described in more detail herein a user of the first mobile computing device can send a workflow request to the user of the second mobile computing device . Either of the users can open a communication session between the mobile computing devices for example to discuss a workflow request or performance of tasks. Communication sessions can include those normally associated with telephony services or the communication sessions can be internet based communications such as voice over internet protocol VoIP . Either of the users can send messages to the mobile computing device of another user. Messages can include text messages pictures or images audio or video and can be short message service SMS messages multimedia message service MMS messages and other suitable message types. The mobile computing devices can also receive notifications and alerts that can be readable text or data such as a structured set of data.

The messages can be acknowledged messages and include a response set for example a read receipt an acknowledgement ACK an indication of not acknowledged NACK and a call back indication among other message types. A response set can be contextually relevant to the task or tasks in a workflow request and can include a predetermined response sequence order. The messages can be selected from a list can be part of an interactive text session can include forms can include uniform resource locators URL and can launch applications and plug ins and so forth. The response set may include the selection of one or more of a set of offered choices that answer an associated prompt.

The workflow requests messages communication requests notifications and alerts can be sent from other mobile computing devices or from other client interfaces using desktop applications web based applications and telephony clients among other suitable clients and interfaces. An application programming interface API can provide an interface for either clients or servers to communicate with mobile computing devices or the workflow server . The API can also allow other users or other systems to provide information to or create workflows on the task management system . Both users and servers can create workflows on the task management system .

A user of an administrative computing device can configure workflow requests on the workflow server that are sent to users of the mobile computing devices . The user of the administrative computing device can also perform supervisory functions such as monitoring the issuance of workflow requests to the mobile computing devices of the users reviewing the performance and completion of tasks by the users and performing analysis and determining metrics relating to task performance by the users.

The workflow server can operate as a message and communications gateway between the mobile computing devices . For example the mobile computing devices and workflow server can be configured as a client server type architecture. In various configurations the workflow server can communicate workflow requests and receive acknowledgements and status updates from the users over one or more of the networks . The workflow server can also be integrated with an interactive voice response system IVR for communicating with users using voice recognition or touchtone keypad interactions. The workflow server can use one or multiple servers. The workflow server can use one or multiple software modules and be split between multiple servers or aggregated onto a single server or virtual server.

The workflow server can store workflow requests messages communications alerts and notifications and logs of information relating to the workflow requests messages communications alerts and notification in the data store . The workflow server can store time stamps for each of these events to facilitate later review and analysis. The logging and capturing of this information down to the individual message permits both the users and the system administrator to review tasks and communications at a fine level of granularity. The workflow server captures all of the related tasks workflow requests acknowledgements notifications alerts messages and communications that together make up a microflow and permits the users and the administrator to review the sequence of individual events user actions and user interactions of the microflow. The users and administrator can review the microflow after completion of the tasks associated with the microflow or during the execution of the microflow. A user may have visibility only into the portion of the workflow in which the user is participating while the administrator typically has visibility of the entire workflow.

A workflow can describe a process for a major activity such as producing a video or treating a patient in hospital. The workflow steps employed by different individuals may vary in the details but can also be quite similar. For example best practices or regulatory guidelines can create similarities in workflow steps. Complex workflows are composed of smaller workflows and for team working workflows may be decomposed into specialist activities or to share the workload to gain time efficiency through parallelism. The breakdown of a complex workflow continues until a unit of work is the right size and type to be a microflow. A microflow is one or more tasks including the workflow request associated with the one or more tasks and any other related notifications alerts messaging and communication sessions associated with the tasks or workflow requests.

Tasks can be assigned revoked reassigned and completed by one or multiple users. Tasks in a workflow request can generate multiple new tasks each of which may be performed by the same user or different users working in collaboration. Completion of a task can depend on the completion status of other tasks being performed by other users. A workflow can also comprise a single task sent in a workflow request to a single user to be performed. The workflow server captures logs and information regarding all of the related activities of workflows thereby permitting review real time and post analysis and the development of performance metrics. Workflows can be analyzed to ensure that business policies are being adhered to and that regulatory policies are being complied with.

The workflow server can be any kind of suitable server including a virtual server operating over a network or multiple servers. The mobile computing device can be any kind of suitable computing device including but not limited to a cell phone a mobile phone a smart phone a computing tablet a laptop a portable computing device and a computing device mounted in a moving platform for example a vehicle among other suitable platforms. Although the task management system is illustrated with mobile computing devices in various configurations the task management system can include non mobile or fixed computing devices such as desktop computers computing devices embedded in non mobile platforms and other non mobile computing devices. Practical usage scenarios can have a mix of users using fixed computing devices and mobile computing devices.

In a first operation at point A in the timeline a first user of a first mobile computing device creates a workflow request having a task to be performed at least in part by a second user of a second mobile computing device . The workflow request passes through the workflow server and is forwarded to the second mobile computing device . Once the workflow request is received by the second user of the mobile computing device the second user can select a response at point C in the timeline and send that response back to first user. The response passes through the workflow server and is forwarded to the first mobile computing device of the first user. Although the first operation is described for a workflow request sent to a second user of a second mobile computing device the second user and second mobile computing devices can include multiple second users as well. For example in a configuration the second user can be a group and the recipients of the workflow request can include the mobile computing devices of each member of the group. Similarly this applies to the other operations and .

Referring now to and an example of a workflow request created at point A is illustrated. illustrates a screenshot for creating a new workflow request . The first user presses the new workflow selection on the display of the first mobile computing device . The first user is presented the option of creating a new workflow request or selecting from a number of preconfigured workflow requests . The task management system can use contextual information in determining which preconfigured workflow requests to display to the first user. For example the first user can see only the preconfigured workflow requests that the first user has authority to send. The preconfigured workflow requests can be ordered alphabetically ordered based on frequency of use or ordered based on other information such as time of day or recently sent or received workflow requests . The preconfigured workflow requests can be grouped into folders of related workflows to facilitate selection sorted by the first user and searched by the first user. If permitted by the task management system the first use can create a new workflow request .

The first user can also be a recipient of workflow requests . The first user can select the task selection to review the current tasks assigned to the first user. The first user can select the sent selection to review workflow requests sent by the first user to recipients such as the second user. The first user can send workflow requests to themselves as well and therefore be both a recipient and a sender of the same workflow request . For example the first user may want to send an alarm to their own mobile computing device to remind them of an imminent event. The first user can also select the history selection to review the history of sent and received actions of tasks that have ended. At this top level the history selection can be configured to show all tasks and actions of the first user. The first user can select one of the entries to display actions associated with the task notification alert or workflow request as describe in the detailed description accompanying .

Referring now also to a screenshot illustrating an editable workflow request is presented. The workflow request includes a workflow name . The first user can select or modify the contact address of the recipient of the workflow request the due time the importance of the workflow request and optionally include a message for the recipient of the workflow request . The first user can then press a send selection to send the workflow request or a cancel selection if the first user opts not to send this workflow request .

The task associated with the workflow request can be a process task where the second user is requested to perform a task and respond appropriately with an acceptance and eventually a completion message once the task is performed. The task can be a notification or message where a simple acknowledgement of the task completes the task. A task can also be a communications request where one party requests the other party to open a communications session after which the task is complete. The task can also be a voting task where the workflow request is sent to a group and based on the responses the first user picks one or more second users to perform the task. The task can also be a multiple choice question where the second user is request to select a choice from one or more selections. For example the multiple choice question can be When can you do this task with possible selections 1 immediately 2 in 1 hour 3 today 4 tomorrow and 5 cannot perform .

The workflow request also includes the contact address of the first user. This facilitates collaboration between the first user and second user so that message can be easily sent and communication sessions can be easily initiated between the first user and the second user. For example the acknowledgement options discussed later with regards to responses from the second user to the workflow request can include options for contacting the first user. For some tasks such as tasks that are delegated the workflow request can include one or more second contact address not shown to which the second user sends responses and messages.

Referring now also to a screenshot illustrating an importance selection toolbar is presented. In a configuration if the first user attempts to modify the importance of the workflow request an importance selection toolbar can be presented. The importance selection toolbar facilitates in the selection of the appropriate importance for the workflow request . Example importance can include normal important or very important. The importance can be configured by the system administrator to suit the needs of their organization and can have more or less than three levels. For example a hospital may use the terms Normal Stat Emergency. The importance can be configured to trigger an alert to the second user when the workflow request is received by the second user. For example a workflow request configured to have an importance of critical can cause a pop up alert window an audible alert a vibratory alert and so forth. The importance can force the second user to acknowledge or otherwise respond to the workflow request . A screenshot of an alert is presented in and the accompanying detailed description. In an alternate configuration the importance can include a measure of time urgency for example critical urgent time sensitive non urgent and so forth.

The importance selection toolbar presents one way in which selectable options for importance can be selected. As would be understood by those familiar in the art this type of selection toolbar can be used for making selections for other fields displayed in other screenshots through this disclosure. The importance selection toolbar is just one kind of toolbar possible other kinds of toolbars and other types of graphical user interfaces known in the art or yet to be developed are also known or contemplated in this disclosure.

The importance for a particular type of workflow request can be preconfigured by a system administrator. The importance can default to a particular importance but a user can override the default importance if desired. The importance can also be limited to certain values. For example a business policy or regulatory policy can prohibit setting the importance to certain values for example lowering the urgency below very important or prevent the first user from modifying the importance altogether. In another example the ability to change the importance can be limited to certain users for example those users identified as supervisors or those users belonging to a supervisor group.

Similarly the due time can be a fixed selectable time or a time interval added to the current time. For example the first user can be presented with a choice of selecting a fixe time for the due time or a time interval for example 15 minutes 30 minutes an hour a day and so forth not shown . If the first user selects the time interval for example 15 minutes then that time interval is added to the current time to produce the due time. The system administrator can preset a time interval for the task which the first user can override.

The priority of a task can be derived from a combination a product or a weighting of other factors. The task management system can use a strict priority algorithm a weighted round robin algorithm or another suitable algorithm based on business policies or regulatory policies. For example priority can be a combination a product or a weighting of an importance factor and a time factor. The importance factor can be for example whether a task is of normal importance high importance or very important. The time factor can be a normal urgency a high urgency and very urgent. These factors can be combined multiplied or weighted to provide a priority rating. The priority of a task can be dynamically reprioritized as new tasks and workflow requests are received.

In addition each of the factors can be represented by an icon. One set of icons can represent the importance factors and another set of icons can represent the time factors. The icons can be displayed along with the workflow request as a visual indication of the urgency of the tasks. In addition to icons the task management system can display shapes colors shading and any other suitable symbol or combinations of symbol to provide information to the users. For example the task management system can display an icon associated with the type of task and overlay an additional icon associated with the importance factor and a color coded symbol associated with the time factor. Similarly icons and symbols can convey information such as completion status of a task or busy status of a user. In a configuration tasks having normal urgency and normal importance do not use an icon or symbol in order to reduce the amount of clutter on the display and to highlight those tasks that are of a higher urgency or higher importance.

Icons or symbols can be dynamically changed based on contextual information available to the task management system . For example a time factor icon can be changed from normal urgency to high urgency to very urgent as time progresses towards the requested completion time for the task associated with workflow request while an icon for the importance factor remains unchanged. For example a workflow request can be sent at 10 00 AM with a time factor of normal urgency or standard urgency and a due time of 1 00 PM. The task management system can be configured for example using a rule such that if the workflow request is not acknowledged or if performance of the associated task has not commenced within 30 minutes of the due time of the task the urgency of the workflow request and the associated task can be changed to high urgency and at 15 minutes the urgency can be changed to very urgent. The change in urgency can trigger the pop up alert window the audible alert the vibratory alert and force the second user to acknowledge or otherwise respond to the workflow request . Similarly the urgency can dynamically change based on other factors such as external events including environmental factors events reported by sensors milestone events such as commencement of performance of a task completion of related tasks in the workflow by the user or other users personnel shift changes and so forth. The task management system can use this priority in ordering the presentation of tasks displayed from a user s task queue illustrated in .

Referring now also to screenshots and illustrating selection of the contact address are presented. The first user s address book can be organized into groups for example the groups all contact addresses favorites or recently used contact addresses nursing and so forth. The first user can select one of the groups to drill down to individual contact addresses or press the back selection to return to the screen for creating a new workflow request shown in screenshot . If the first user selects one of the groups for example the favorites selection they are presented with screenshot that presents contact addresses associated with that group . Referring to contact address associated with the group called favorites is presented. Each of the contact addresses can include an icon or status identifier . The status identifier can provide at a glance information about the availability of the user associated with the contact address . Example status identifiers can include color identifiers such as green yellow red blue and so forth that identify whether the user associated with the contact address is available to accept new workflow requests is busy performing a task is available or unavailable for incoming communication requests is currently in a communication session with another user has turned off their mobile computing device or is out of range and so forth. The status identifier can be configured by the task management system . The status identifiers can indicate the relative amount of tasks and workflow requests in the user s task queue . The status identifiers can be solid colors shaded or have markings include symbols include overlapping icons be flashing or use other suitable techniques for conveying status information. If the first user does not select a contact address the first user can select the back selection to return to the address book screen. The back button can display contextual information about the display or screen that the first user will return to upon pressing the back selection . In a configuration the first user can select the status identifier of a contact address to receive additional information about the status of that user.

The first user can select the contact address to use for the communication. Referring now also to a screenshot of a contact address is presented. The screenshot presents the name of the user that is associated with the contact address which can be different from or the same as the text used in the contact address itself. In a configuration the first user can modify the text of the contact address to make the contact address more user friendly for example using a nickname for a user. In addition to the name there can be several different options for communicating with the second user that is associated with the contact address . For example the contact address can include a mobile phone number an office phone number an email address not shown a home phone not shown and other suitable contact addresses . The contact address can also include additional information about the user associated with the contact address such as groups the user is associated with and titles positions or roles performed in the workplace.

In the configuration illustrated in the screenshot only some of the possible fields are illustrated. This can be done to comply with a business policy. For example a business using the task management system may require all users to use an IVR system for receiving and responding to workflow requests so that there is uniformity in how users are informed of workflow requests and how they send acknowledgements and responses . Another example of a business policy is a privacy policy. A privacy policy may limit what kind of information of the second user is available to the first user.

In another configuration the fields that are displayed can be limited to those that are populated with information. This can reduce the amount of clutter on the display and make it easier for the first user to select the appropriate field for sending the workflow request . In yet another configuration the fields that are displayed can be based on context or contextual information. For example if the task management system is aware that the second user associated with the contact address is currently contactable by either their mobile phone or work phone then the task management system can limit the display to just those selectable fields .

After the first user has selected the contact address and the particular mode of communications for sending the workflow request to the second user the first user can select the back selection to return to the previous screen. The back selection can display information about the display or screen that the first user will return to upon pressing the back selection . In a configuration the back selection can use the standard navigation controls available through the operating system of the second mobile computing device.

The first user can select the contact address for example the contact address associated with the user Anne Brown . After selecting the user will return to the group called Nursing to display other members of the group Nursing . In this way the first user can select multiple contact addresses for sending the workflow request before returning the first user back to the screen for creating a new workflow request shown in screenshot .

Referring now to a screenshot illustrating manual entry of a contact address associated with task of a workflow request is presented. In addition to using the address book functionality described in the first user can also manually enter a contact address . In particular this screenshot illustrates the entering of a phone number for a phone action task. The first user can enter the phone number using a keypad entry . In a configuration of the task management system the first user can enter information using other means available on the first mobile computing device for example voice recognition. In various configurations other contact address information can be entered including but not limited to an email address or a name. The information entered by the first user can also be used to look up an address in the address book or to create a new contact address . More generally this could be used to set the email address for launching a pre addressed email or embedding a web base uniform resource locator URL for launching a web page.

Returning back to once the first user of the first mobile computing device has created the workflow request and addresses the workflow request to the contact address of the second mobile computing device the first user sends the workflow request . The workflow request can be received by the workflow server prior to or in conjunction with receipt of the workflow request by the second mobile computing device . In the timeline of operations illustrates the case where the workflow request is received first by the workflow server and then forwarded to the second mobile computing device by the workflow server .

The inclusion of a workflow server in the communication path between mobile computing devices provides several benefits described below. However in a configuration the workflow requests and subsequent communications can be sent directly between mobile computing devices using a peer to peer communication path without a workflow server . In another configuration the mobile computing devices can send copies of messages or summary information about the workflow requests and subsequent communications to the workflow server and the other mobile computing device .

One benefit of using a workflow server is that the workflow server can optionally validate or alter information in the workflow request . For example the workflow server can validate that the workflow request is being sent to a current employee. The workflow server can alter who the workflow request is sent to. For example if the intended recipient of the workflow request has another user filling in for them then the workflow request can be forward to that user. The workflow server can also police the workflow request by verifying the workflow request against one or more business policy rules or regulatory policy rules.

Another benefit of using a workflow server is that the workflow server can log the various messages and communications between the mobile computing devices . In various configurations the workflow server can save copies of the messages and save information about the communications between the mobile computing devices . In various configurations the workflow server can be used to perform analysis of the messages and communications as described below.

Another benefit of using a workflow server is that the workflow server can work in conjunction with a presence server to determine if the contact address needs to be changed in order to send the workflow request to the second user of the second mobile computing device . For example if the second mobile computing device is present on a local WiFi intranet an example of a private network the workflow server can send the message using an email message. However if the second mobile computing device is present only on a public network such as a cellular network and the second user does not have a data plan for the second mobile computing device then the workflow server can send the workflow request to the second user s mobile computing device using the short message service SMS for example by instructing the second user of the second mobile computing device to dial into the IVR to receive and respond to the workflow request .

The workflow server forwards the workflow request to the second mobile computing device . The second user of the second mobile computing device receives the workflow request and can present the workflow request to the second user. The workflow request can be presented to the second user in multiple different ways. For example the workflow request can be presented on a human machine interface such as a display on the second mobile computing device . A display is only one type of output device of a computing device . The workflow request can also be presented as an auditory message for example using a text to speech feature by playing a sound file such as a .wav .mp3 or other auditory means.

The workflow request can be presented with an alert such as a visual alert on the display a vibratory alert an audible alert or a combination of alerts. The workflow request can be presented as a combination of an alert and a displayed message. These presentations and alerts can alert the second user that a new workflow request has been received and can provide information to the second user about the type of urgency of or importance of workflow request . For example the second user may carry their second mobile computing device in a pocket. For example the combination of a vibratory alert and an audible alert particular to the kind of task in the workflow request can immediately alert the second user to the type of workflow request .

The workflow server can send a workflow request to the second user using one or multiple methods including but not limited to using an IVR system an email a text message instant messaging and multimodal communications among other methods. The second user can be notified about a new workflow request or change to an existing task or workflow request which then triggers the second mobile computing device to poll the workflow server to receive the workflow request . The workflow request can be received in an XML message for example if the task management system uses RESTFUL web APIs between the workflow server and second mobile computing device . The workflow request and task can include metadata for creating the communications sessions for processes with other servers such as an email server a web server a call server among other servers.

In another configuration the notification can be a SIP notification and the workflow request can be received in a SIP notification. In another example the alert can be a call in number associated with the workflow request . The alert can be sent to a second user s pager or mobile phone to prompt the second user to call into the IVR system . The second user can have a personal identification number PIN for responding to the workflow request and the workflow request can have a numeric identifier. The second user calls into the IVR system and the IVR system can read out the message for example using a text to speech module. The second user can speak their response to the IVR system and using a speech recognition module the IVR system can generate the response . The second user can also press number keys on a phone to send responses using the dual tone multi frequency DTMF in band signaling used by the phone for dialing. The second user can also opt to respond to the workflow request using email text messaging and other methods available to the second user. The task management system can support multi modal communications wherein the workflow request messages acknowledgements responses and notifications are performed using the same or different communication mediums.

When the second user is not reached or has not responded back with an acknowledgement or response the workflow server can take additional steps before escalating the workflow request as described in greater detail later in the disclosure relating to server generated workflow requests . For example the workflow server can make calls to the second user a preconfigured number of times using a preconfigured interval between each of the calls. The workflow server can attempt to reach the second user using different mediums based on the information available to the workflow server in the contact address associated with the second user. The second user can provide a preferred contact mode for the workflow server to use in contacting the second user. For example the second user can configure a preferred order of addresses such as mobile phone number and then office phone number in the contact address for contacting the second user.

Referring now to a screenshot illustrating a display of tasks from a user s task queue is presented. The display of the user s task queue can be a scrollable display of tasks. The user s task queue can be a single task queue or can include multiple task queues . For example there can be a task queue associated with tasks of a particular priority level urgency or importance . The task queue can include tasks and workflow requests sorted by due date. The task queue can be an unsorted or sorted list from which the display of tasks is first prioritized and then displayed to the user. There can be a separate task queue for workflow requests and separate task queue for tasks associated with the workflow requests that have already been accepted by the second user.

The tasks can be prioritized using rules and combinations of rules. Example rules for prioritizing the tasks can include prioritizing by a time factor for example based on the current time the expiration of a timer associated with the task a preset time or threshold time prior to the requested completion time of the task the elapsed time since the workflow request was requested or accepted by the second user. Another example rule can include prioritizing based on a milestone event such as the start of performance of the task the completion of the task or the non performance of the task. Another example rule can include prioritizing based on environmental factors such as an input from a sensor for example a sensor on a piece of monitoring equipment a signal from an external system or data available to the task management system that is obtained from an information source such as an external database. Another example rule can include prioritizing based on personnel factor such as changes in available personnel for example if a second user has quit or been terminated a shift change such as a shift change associated with a particular time and the availability of a second user or a group of second users for performing the task.

Another example rule can include prioritizing based on the importance for example the importance requested by the first user an urgency determined by the second user or an administrator for example an importance changed by the second user performing a user override function to change the importance an urgency determined by the location for performance of the task for example a location used in conjunction with the current location of the second user. In this example if the second user is in close proximity to the location for the performance of a task the urgency or importance for that task can be temporarily increased so as to alert the second user of the task nearby that needs to be performed. Similarly if the second user performs work in two different locations the tasks can be prioritized so that the second user is not unnecessarily bounced between the two different locations during performance of tasks from the second user s workflow queue . This is an example in which the task management system can use contextual information to prioritize tasks and increase overall user efficiency. The prioritization can also be based on an urgency or importance set by the type of task. Some task types can have an urgency or importance set according to a business policy rule associated with the type of task or a regulatory compliance rule associated with the type of task. The business policy rule or regulatory compliance rule can use other factors in combination with the urgency or importance including but not limited to the role or position of the first user or second user the locations of the second user or other users the time of day and so forth.

The second mobile computing device can present an indication that there is a new workflow request by displaying a numerical icon in the tasks selection . The second mobile computing device can display the workflow request in the second user s task queue or task list. In an alternate configuration the second user must first accept the workflow request before the task appears in the user s task queue . The workflow request can be displayed with icons colors shading or other indicators that provide information to the second user without requiring the second user to first select and individually view the workflow request . For example the workflow request can be displayed with an importance icon that shows the importance of the workflow request and a task type icon that provides the second user with information about the nature of the workflow request . The presentation of the tasks can be sorted or ordered by priority urgency or importance by recipient name by due time by task type or by another suitable field. Selecting an area of the screen or performing a gesture such as a swipe can trigger a popup for selecting the sorting options not shown . In another configuration a sort selection not shown can trigger the display of the sorting options.

The status of the second user can be displayed using for example a color indication in the status window . For example if the second user is going to begin performance of a task the second user can quickly set their status to busy by tapping the status window . The status can be selectable from a group of selections not shown or toggled between two states for example an available state displayed as a green indication in the status window and a busy state displayed as a red indication in the status window . The task management system can use contextual information and a rule to set the status of the second user in the status window without additional input from the second user. The status window provides a visual indicator to the second user of the change in status. For example if the second user begins performance of a particular kind of task the task management system can apply a rule and changed the status of the second user to busy and change the status window to red. When the user has completed the task the task management system can set the status of the user back to available and change the status window to green.

Referring now also to a screenshot of the workflow request is presented. The workflow request includes the workflow name a message included with the workflow request the due time and the name of the first user or sender of the workflow request . A log selection allows the second user to view actions messages and communications associated with the workflow request . Two action selections allow the second user to respond to the workflow request . The action selection opens a window of acknowledgement options to accept or reject the task.

The communication selection allows the second user to quickly open a communication session with requester such as a telephone call an email a message service a proprietary messaging service or an SMS or short message service session with the first user to discuss the workflow request . The sender and requester can be the same user for example the first user as illustrated. In another example the sender can forward a workflow request that the sender received from a third user. The third user can be the user that created the original workflow request . In this example the requester can be the user that created the original workflow request that was sent to the first user while the sender is the first user who received the workflow request from the requester . The first user can forward the workflow request to the second user for performance of the task or in other words the first user can delegate the task to the second user. The communication selection can display the requester so that in the event that the second user attempts to open a communication session the second user can communicate directly with the originator of the workflow request namely the requester and not the first user who only delegated the task to the second user.

The task management system can use contextual information such as information about the requester the sender other parties and other information to determine the requester that is to be displayed with the communication selection . For example if the original requester is unavailable task management system can change the requester to another user supervisor or help system that can assist the second user. In this way the task management can improve the user experience for the second user by displaying contextually relevant information and useful selection options to the second user.

Referring now also to a screenshot of the acknowledgement options is presented. The second user can select the accept selection the decline selection or by pressing the back selection the second user can defer acceptance of the workflow request . If the user selects the accept selection the task associated with the workflow request can be marked as in progress. The task associated with the workflow request can be prioritized as described above which can change the order in which the task is displayed in the second user s task queue . If the user selects the decline selection the workflow request can be removed from the second user s task queue . In various configurations the workflow request can be placed into the second user s task queue when it is received prior to the accept selection or decline selection and then removed if the second user selects the decline selection or the task can be placed in the second user s task queue only once the accept selection has been selected.

Referring back to at point C in the first example operation the second mobile computing system can send a response to the workflow request . The response can be based at least in part on the selection made by the second user and can be for example an acceptance of workflow request a rejection of the workflow request and a deferring of an acceptance of the workflow request among other suitable responses. The response can be sent to the workflow server and forwarded to the first mobile computing device by the workflow server .

Continuing to refer to at point B in the timeline of the first example operation either of the first user or the second user can initiate a dialog with the other user by opening a communication session . For ease of explanation point B and the communication session are illustrated as occurring after the workflow request has been sent to the second user at point A but before the response at point C has been sent. However the communication session can also be initiated prior to sending the workflow request included in the workflow request or initiated after the second user sends the response to the workflow request .

The communication session can be initiated by either party and once the communication session is open the communication session can comprise one or more messages sent by either party. In a configuration text interactions and messaging can be supported natively by the task management system while phone calls and other communications are initiated externally by placing calls through a call server not shown . Also the communication session can be multi modal and use one or more mediums for example a text message a multimedia message an email message a push to talk type communication session a voice call a video call and a conference call. The communication session can also be performed through an interactive voice response system or using a web based session based on for example a uniform resource locator as appropriate. The communication session can be a real time simultaneous dialog such as a two party voice call a push to talk type communication or a messaging type communication such as SMS or email. Some types of communication sessions such as voice calls have explicit steps of setting up a communications pathway or bearer channel connecting the parties to that channel for the duration of the call and then an explicit tearing down of the channel. Other types of communication do not require explicit set up and tear down steps but can be used as needed.

By the term open a communication session Applicants intend the term to mean initiating an application layer use of a type of communication that permits one or both parties to communicate voice messages and or data as appropriate for the type of communication to one another. In some instances the communication pathway or channel exists prior to the opening of the communication session and can be used by the task management system as needed without setting up a separate communications pathway. For example the task management system can include a message handling module in the workflow server . In other instances opening a communication session requires that a communications pathway or bearer channel be set up for the communication session and then torn down at the conclusion of the communication session . For the purposes of this disclosure the term opening a communication session generally refers to a use of a communication protocol at the application layer as opposed to the presentation layer session layer transport layer data communication layer network layer data link layer or physical layer of the seven layer Open Systems Interconnection OSI model. In some configurations the task management system can be implemented so as to use aspects of one or more of the layers. In some instances the task management system can be tightly integrated with the type of communications for example by providing the messaging system for passing text messages. In other instances the task management system can make system level or application level calls to an external system or to applications or functions to open the communication session between one or more parties. For example voice calls can be handled by initiating the appropriate system level calls to the mobile computing device .

Referring back to the screenshot in the second user can select the communication selection to open a communication session with the first user. The communication type icon displays the default type of communication and communication medium. As illustrated for the example in screenshot the default communications type can be instant messaging. The sender can specify the type of communication or allow the task management system to set the default type of communication. For example if the first user used a template to create the workflow request then the default communication type can be the communication type set in the template. The workflow server of the task management system can apply a business policy or regulatory policy to change the communication type. For example for regulatory purposes some types of workflow requests may require a voice communication between the parties. An example of this can be a workflow request from a medical doctor or medical professional that for purposes of insurance coverage and regulatory compliance requires the recipient of the workflow request to verbally confirm the task instructions with the medical professional.

The second user can select the communication selection to make the second mobile computing device open a communication session with the requester who can be for example the first user. Referring also now to a screenshot of a dialog between a first user and a second user is displayed. The first user in the workflow request included a message asking the second user if they could witness meds . The second user can send a reply to the message of the first user using the communication session . For example in the reply the second user can negotiate a time for starting performance of the task in the workflow request by typing the reply into the text input box and selecting the send selection . The second user can return to the display shown in screenshot without sending a reply by selecting the back selection . The second user can send a predetermined phrase by selecting the phrases selection .

Referring also to a screenshot of predetermined phrases is presented. The predetermined phrases can be preconfigured based on the workflow request . The predetermined phrases can be based on previous replies . The second user can select the back selection to return to the dialog between the first user and the second user shown in screenshot . The user can select one of the predetermined phrases to have the text of that predetermined phrase placed into the text input box . For example if the second user selects the predetermined phrase Can you give me 5 mins as the selected phrase then the text of the selected phrase is placed into the text input box as illustrated in the screenshot of and as described in the accompanying detailed description below.

In a configuration the communication session can be preconfigured as a structured communication session . After each message sent or received by a user the predetermined phrases can be reconfigured based on factors such as the previously selected preconfigured phrase a received text or a received preconfigured phrase from the other user an acceptance of the workflow a rejection of the workflow and a performance of a task associated with the workflow request among other factors. The structured communication session is an example of a response sequence ordered set of messages. A structured communication can be preconfigured by an administrator of the task management system to facilitate the flow of the issuance of workflow requests the acceptance of workflow requests the messages sent in communication sessions and the performance of tasks associated with the workflow request among other operations. The predetermined phrases can be selected by the task management system based on phrases sent in messages during previous operations and microflows.

Referring also to a screenshot of editing text in the text input box is illustrated. Before selecting the send selection the second user can perform a text edit of the Can you give me 5 mins phrase in the text input box . For example the second user can perform a text edit to change 5 minutes to 10 minutes as illustrated in the screenshot .

The workflow server can log the messages sent between the mobile computing devices using the communication session . In various configurations the workflow server can save copies of the messages or save information about the communications between the mobile computing devices . For example if text messages are used the workflow server can save a copy of each text message. Similarly the workflow server can save copies of audio and video messages including pictures. For voice and other streaming media such as a call based communication session the workflow server can be configured to save copies of the communications that pass through the workflow server . However for communications that are performed directly between the mobile computing devices and that do not pass through the workflow server such as voice calls the workflow server can log information about the call such as the time of the call and the parties that took part in the call. This log information can be accessed by an administrator using an administrative computing device or by users by viewing logs .

Referring now back to the screenshot of the second user can select the log selection to view information about the messages communications and actions associated with the workflow request . Referring now also to a screenshot of the log window is presented. The second computing device can display the log of the messages communications and actions associated with the workflow request . The second user can select one of the elements from the log to view additional details not shown . Referring now also to a screenshot of the sent window is presented. The first user can select the sent selection to view workflow requests that the first user sent to the second user and other users. By selecting one of the workflow requests the first user can view information about the workflow request . Referring now also to a screenshot of the sent item log is presented. The first user can view information about the workflow request including the message detail and the log associated with the workflow request .

Continuing to refer to in a second example operation at point D in the timeline the workflow server creates a server generated workflow request to be performed by the user of the second mobile computing device . The second user can select a response at point C in the timeline and send that response back to the workflow server . Example server generated workflow requests include those generated by recurring timers for example daily tasks that need to be performed and those generated by expiration of timers including those related to tasks that are due or overdue. The workflow server can send a server generated workflow request based on a threshold event such as an approaching due time.

Another example server generated workflow request can be an escalation request associated with a workflow request . The task management system can send the escalation request to members of a group for example a group of users that perform a similar role or function as the second user. For example if the second user is a nurse in a hospital then the escalation request can be sent to other nurses on the same shift to see if one of those nurses is available to perform the task associated with the workflow request .

There can also be multiple escalating tiers of escalation requests. If a workflow request is not accepted or if the task associated with the workflow requests is not performed within a threshold amount of time then the workflow request can be escalated to another user or group for example a supervisor. If the workflow request is still not accepted or the task associated with the workflow requests is still not performed then the workflow request can be sent back to the first user or an alert can be sent back to the first user. Similarly at any step in the escalation process alerts and notifications can be sent to the first user the second user groups supervisors an administrator and so forth.

The server generated workflow request can be bidirectional requiring the second user to send that response back to the workflow server . The workflow server can send a server generated workflow request that presents an alert to the second user based on a triggering event. A trigger can be caused by an external event such as a sensor reading. The server generated workflow request can be a message or notification that triggers an alert by changing the urgency or importance of a workflow request . Referring now to a screenshot of an alert is presented. The workflow server can send the alert to second mobile computing device that can be presented to the user on the display of the second mobile computing device . In various configurations the alert can be generated different ways for example by a timer in the second mobile computing device by a signal received from a sensor by a reprioritization of a task or workflow by the first user or the workflow server and so forth.

Referring again back to the server generated workflow request can also be a unidirectional request that does not require a response from the second user. For example if the second user has not responded to a workflow request the server generated workflow request can rescind the workflow request and remove it from the workflow queue of the second user. The server generated workflow request can also remove a task from the workflow queue of the second user. These operations can be performed for example to assign the task to a second user. After rescinding the workflow request or removing the task from the user s workflow queue the workflow server can send the workflow request to another user.

The server generated workflow request can also place tasks directly into the workflow queue of the second user without sending a request and then waiting for the second user to review and send a response . This can reduce the number of requests and responses for mandatory and periodic tasks routinely assigned to and accepted by the second user. Similarly these functions can be performed by a first user under certain conditions. For example the first user can rescind a workflow request that the first user created or remove the task associated with the workflow request from the queue of the second user for example to send the task to another user using a workflow request . In a configuration a first user that has supervisory privileges or administrative privileges can place or remove tasks directly into the workflow queue of a second user.

Referring back to another example of a server generated workflow request is a workflow request that is created by an administrator using an administrative computing device . The administrative computing device can be directly connected to the workflow server or networked to the workflow server across a network . In this configuration the workflow request is a server generated workflow request because it is sent directly from the workflow server to a user s mobile computing device . In a configuration the administrative computing device can also send workflow requests to the workflow server as described for example by operation .

Continuing to refer to in a third example operation at point A in the timeline the first user of a first mobile computing device creates a workflow request having a task to be performed by a second user of a second mobile computing device . The workflow request is sent to the workflow server to be forwarded to the second mobile computing device . At point E in the timeline the workflow server can create a rule based response for the second mobile computing device that is sent to the first mobile computing device . The rule based response can be an acceptance and a rejection among other suitable responses. If the workflow server accepts the workflow request the workflow server can add the workflow request or the task associated with the workflow request to the workflow queue of the second mobile computing device . If the workflow server rejects the workflow request both the first mobile computing device and the second mobile computing device can receive a notification of the rejection. The basis for the determination of whether to accept or reject the workflow request can be based on contextual information available to the workflow server and the application of a rule. An example of a rule is to reject a workflow request if the second user is currently busy performing a task and has a workflow queue filled with tasks that would prevent the second user from performing the workflow request by the required time. Rules can be created by an administrator using the administrative computing device and configured to be applied in a desired order.

In an example the second mobile computing device can be powered off out of range for accepting communications or can be logged out of the task management system . The second user of the second mobile computing device can also alert the task management system that the user is currently busy for example if the user is performing a task or has set their status to busy or unavailable. This status setting or availability setting permits the second user to set their current availability for receiving workflow requests messages and calls to busy or unavailable. The availability setting of the user can work in conjunction with the urgency or importance setting to permit the task management system to use context specific rules and information about the workflow requests messages and calls to determine whether to allow incoming workflow requests messages and calls to interrupt the second user. For example if the second user has set their second mobile computing device to busy so as to not receive further workflow requests messages and calls the workflow server second mobile computing device or another portion of the task management system can use a rule to determine whether to override the availability setting set by the user. For example this rule can be based at least in part on contextual information about the reason the first user is busy as well as the urgency or importance and type of workflow request message or call.

In an example if the first user is a hospital professional and has their availability set to busy during a consultation with a patient so as to not be interrupted then a rule may allow a workflow request that includes code blue emergency and that has an urgency or importance of a high enough level to override the busy availability setting of the first user and alert the first user to the workflow request . In another example during performance of a task from the second user s workflow queue a rule can temporarily set the availability status of the second user to busy depending on the task in order to minimize interruptions during performance of the task. By providing contextual information about the task being performed and applying that information to incoming communications using configurable rules an administrator can configure the communication aspects and task management aspects of the task management system to match the needs of the workplace without burdening the users with multiple screens of individual configurations.

Referring now to a screenshot of current status options for the user s availability setting is presented. The second user of the second mobile computing device can select the logout selection to log out of the task management system . The second user can also select the busy selection to send an indication to the task management system that the user is currently unavailable. Selecting the busy selection can also change color presented in the status window as described in the detailed description accompanying . The task management system can use contextual information to determine the current status of the second user and use that information to make a determination about whether to accept or reject a new workflow request for the second user. The task management system can also use contextual information to determine whether to instead forward the new workflow request to the second user for a decision. The task management system can delay sending the workflow request based on a rule to avoid interrupting the second user during the performance of a task. In this instance the task management system can delay sending the workflow request until the second user has updated their status to available. In an example the task management system can use information about a previous performance of a particular task in determining how long on average the second user will be busy with the current task. Then based on that average time a rule can be applied to determine whether to respond to the workflow request for the user or wait for the second user to make the decision whether or not to accept the workflow request .

In another example if the second user just accepted a workflow request that is of a time sensitive or urgent nature for example if the second user is a hospital professional responding to a code blue then the task management system can apply a rule to reject or accept new incoming workflow requests without interrupting the second user. An example rule can be to accept or delay sending a server generated workflow request for a daily operation that is not time sensitive and that is normally accepted by the second user when the second user is currently busy responding to a workflow request having an importance of very important or an urgency that indicates immediate action is required. For example if the second user is responding to a code blue workflow request then the workflow server can either accept the server generated workflow request or delay sending the server generated workflow request . In another example if a workflow request that is time sensitive is received by the workflow server and addressed to the same second user in the previous example the workflow server can apply a rule to reject the workflow request on behalf of the second user when the contextual information available to the task management system indicates that the second user will have insufficient time to perform the task by the desired time.

The workflow server can also use one or more business policies to determine whether to accept reject or reassign workflow requests . For example if the second user has a workflow queue having unperformed tasks above a configurable threshold the workflow server can apply a business rule and send a reject response for the second user. Also the workflow server can perform operations to distribute workflow requests equally between members of a group. For example if the second user is a member of a group that can share assignments then upon receiving workflow requests addressed to the second user the workflow server can check the workflow queues of the members of that group and change the recipient of the workflow request if necessary to distribute work more evenly between members of the group.

The task management system can use contextual information to improve the user experience of users of the mobile communication devices in multiple ways. In an example similar to the one presented above the task management system can apply a rule and respond to workflow requests for users when appropriate. This not only reduces the number of key presses or selections that the users would otherwise have to make but it also speeds up the process of the assignment of and ultimately the performance of workflow requests . When a first user sends a workflow request to a second user who is busy or unavailable permitting the workflow server to make a rule based response with a decline notification quickly alerts the first user that the second user is busy or unavailable. This information about the status of the second user permits the first user to immediately send the workflow request to a different user. Without the response provided by the workflow server the first user could have to wait for a period of time for a response from the second user further delaying the possibility of another user performing the task in the workflow request for the first user.

Continuing to refer to in a fourth example operation the first user of the first mobile computing device can inquire about the status of a workflow request . At point F in the timeline the first user creates an inquiry similar to a workflow request . The inquiry can reference a previous workflow request . Referring also now to a screenshot of an inquiry is presented. The inquiry can include a selectable response action for example to call the first user using a preferred medium for communication in this case a voice call to the phone number of first user. The response action can include a response type icon identifying the type of action and preferred medium. The inquiry can include a message for example a text message. The message can help to later identify the purpose of the response action in the log . If the response action is a call and if the contents of the call are not recorded by the task management system then the message can be a good way of providing information for identifying the purpose of the call at a later point in time. The message also provides the second user with an indication of the kind of information the first user expects to receive by way of the response action thereby allowing the second user to prepare or retrieve the necessary information.

The second user receives the inquiry in similar fashion to a workflow request as described above. The second user is presented with acknowledgement options appropriate for sending a response to the inquiry . Referring now to a screenshot of selectable acknowledgement options is presented. The acknowledgement options can include for example a decline selection a defer action selection and a perform action selection . The task management system can use the response action of the inquiry in to change the text of the defer action selection and the perform action selection . These context based changes to the defer action selection and the perform action selection present the second user with a more user friendly and informative display. A back selection permits the second user to return to the screen displaying the inquiry shown in screenshot . A back selection on the top bar returns the second user to the display of the user s task queue .

Continuing to refer to in a fifth example operation at point H in the timeline one of the users can open a communication session with another user for example to discuss a task prior to commencing performance of the task during performance of the task or after performance of the task. The communication session can be in response to the inquiry presented in and the accompanying detailed description. The communication session can be in addition to an inquiry or the communication session can be in place of the inquiry . The communication session can be similar to the communication session . For purposes of illustration only the communication session is displayed as one or more messages for example text messages that pass through the workflow server the communication session is displayed as a voice call between the first mobile computing device and the second mobile computing device that does not traverse or pass through the workflow server . Communication sessions are illustrated this way for purposes of illustration only. In various configurations either or both communication sessions can be message based such as text based messaging or voice based such as POTS Plain Old Telephone Service cellular WiFI or VoIP based Voice over Internet Protocol or combinations thereof. In various configurations the communication sessions can be point to point or traverse the workflow server independent of whether they are text based or voice based communications.

Referring now to a screenshot of a popup list for opening a communication session is presented. In this example the second user selects a workflow request and then selects the initiate communications icon for that workflow request . The task management system uses contextual information to populate the popup list with selectable options for opening the communication session . In this case the popup list includes options for opening a communication session to discuss the task in the workflow request based on the communication mediums supported by both the first user and second user. The second user can select the discuss task selection using messaging or the discuss task selection using a voice call. Each of the discuss tasks selections include a communication type icon that indicates the type of medium used in the displayed discuss tasks selections . The second user can select the back selection to avoid opening a communication session .

In a configuration the popup list can exclude display task selections for particular communication mediums using rules based on business policies or regulatory rules. The popup list can further exclude communication mediums based on the availability of the first user using a particular communication medium. For example if the first user is currently on a voice call the discuss tasks selection using a voice call can be disabled nor not displayed. In a configuration an icon or other identifier such as color or symbol can be used to identify the status of a communication medium for the first user but allow a second user to call the first user even when the first user is currently on another call.

Continuing to refer to in a sixth example operation at point I in the timeline the second user can send a status message to the first user. An example status message is a message that indicates that the second user has commenced performance of a task associated with a workflow request . Referring now to a screenshot of a task is presented. The second user can select a status update selection . The task management system can display contextually relevant options for the status update selection . For example if performance of a task has not been commenced then the status update selection can be starting task or starting process as illustrated. The text displayed can be based on the type of workflow request . Other types of status updates are also possible.

A status message can provide an indication that a single task of a multi task workflow request or microflow is complete. A single workflow request can comprise multiple individual steps tasks or operations. The steps tasks or operations can involve other users. The steps or operations can create new tasks or new workflow requests for the second user or other users. The steps or operations can be cascaded where the completion of one task spawns another new workflow request . The steps or operations can be nested where during the performance of a task a new workflow request is generated and completed before performance is completed for the current workflow request . At each step or operation the available contextually relevant options that are displayed for the second user can change based for example on the previously performed tasks complete workflows or messages to other users.

Continuing to refer to in a seventh example operation at point J in the timeline the second user can send a completion status message to the first user. An example completion status message is a message that indicates that the second user has completed performance of a task or the tasks associated with a workflow request . Another example completion status message is a message that indicates that the second user has not completed performance of the task associated with the workflow request . For example the second user may not have had time to complete the task the task may be impossible to complete or no longer necessary to complete the task may have been assigned or delegated to another user for example if a shift change occurred or can be another suitable completion status message .

Referring again to the second user can select completion update selection to display a list of completion option selections . Referring also now to a screenshot of a list of completion option selections is presented. The selectable completion option selections can include a done selection to indicate that the task associated with the workflow request has been performed and completed successfully and a cannot assist selection to indicate that the second user can no longer assist in performance of the task associated with the workflow request . A back selection permits the second user to return to the task screen without selecting a completion option selection . An optional note box permits the second user to explain the reasons for not completing the task or to provide additional information to the first user. Referring also now to a screenshot of a list of predetermined completion phrases is presented. The predetermined completion phrases permits the second user to select commonly used explanations that are inserted into the optional note box . The predetermined completion phrases can be edited once they are in the optional note box . The second user can save the current text in the optional note box as a new predetermined completion phrase.

Referring again to at point K in the timeline of the seventh example operation the workflow server can send one or more completion messages to the first user and the second user. The completion messages can for example remove the workflow request from the user s task queue among other suitable operations. The completion messages can also place log information in the log of each of the mobile computing devices . The completion messages can also request copies of messages and other log information from each of the mobile computing devices .

The workflow server can send one or more completion messages based on contextual information available to the workflow server . For example if a workflow request was created to reset a malfunctioning air exchanger and the workflow server receives information from a sensor that the air exchanger is back online then the workflow server can determine that the task associated with the workflow request has been completed and send one or more completion messages to the appropriate user. The workflow server can also request a confirmation from the technician for example by sending an inquiry as described for fourth example operation prior to marking the task as completed and sending the completion message . By using this available contextual information the task management system can reduce the number of unnecessary escalations where the user has simply failed to report that the task associated with the workflow request has been completed.

Referring now to a screenshot of an exemplary task template editing module is presented. The task template editing module permits a system administrator at the administrative computing device to create the preconfigured workflow requests illustrated in and described in the accompanying detailed description. The system administrator can determine which fields are user editable fields and preconfigure the default semantics text and icons that are to be displayed with the workflow request and tasks. The system administrator can publish the preconfigured workflow requests to specific groups. The task management system can update the preconfigured workflow requests available to each contact based on whether they are a member of the specific groups.

The system administrator can use the preconfigured workflow requests to control the amount of input the users have in creating workflow requests . For example the system administrator can create highly structured workflow requests that facilitate entry of information by the users. An example is a preconfigured workflow request for cleaning a room in a hospital setting. The preconfigured workflow requests can have a workflow name of clean patient room and have a default importance of normal. The system administrator can require an information element such as the room number and the cleaning type along with selectable entries that include the list of room numbers at the hospital or section of the hospital and cleaning types such as standard clean disinfection disinfections with fluorescent marking test and so forth. These lists of entries can be used to both limit entry of information by the users and also to facilitate easy quick selection of commonly used selections. The preconfigured workflow request can include optional information elements such as a message box that allows the user to enter comments about the task.

The message box can use embedded data elements that can be populated using contextual information to facilitate user selections such as the room number type of clean etc. For example a field in the message can be room number . This makes it possible for the user to double tap the field to select it and overwrite with the real data for example the list of rooms associated with the field room number . More structured message creation process are also possible where the message is selected from a list of options and then any parameters are collected enabling the message field to be auto assembled

The system administrator can set the available responses for acknowledgments or responses such as acknowledged accept defer acceptance accept with action and cannot comply among other suitable responses. The defer acceptance selection permits the users to asynchronously negotiate a response time for accepting or rejecting the workflow request . For example the first user would receive a message that the second user has received and reviewed the workflow request but not responded with an accept or reject selection. The system administrator can configure the preconfigured workflow requests so that the second user can respond with their own response . Once a user has accepted the workflow request the user can be presented with two new response options for example task started and cannot complete . After the user has started the task the user can be presented with two completion options task completed and cannot complete . The text options can be configured by the system administrator to tailor the task management system to their organization s requirements.

The responses can include implicit actions such as an accept response to a workflow request to join a conference call can place the user into the conference call and mark the user s status as busy for the duration of the call. When the user exits the conference call the workflow request can be completed and a completion status message can be sent to the workflow server and the first user that sent the workflow request .

The system administrator can also provide general unstructured preconfigured workflow requests . Unstructured messages can include free form text and digits of fixed or dynamic length with similar structured elements to the structured preconfigured workflow requests. The system administrator can embed unstructured messages as a component of a task associated with the workflow request for example to facilitate coordination of communication sessions and permit the users to open the communication sessions . The system administrator can also configure what kind of information is logged for the preconfigured workflow requests for example logging exact copies of text messages communicated between the users logging voice call times and the parties involved in the communication session and so forth.

Preconfigured workflow requests can be distributed to users based on groups permitting the system administrator to for example allow supervisors to use both structured and unstructured preconfigured workflow requests while allowing regular users to use only the structured preconfigured workflow requests . The group feature allows an organization s tasks to be filtered so that users only see tasks of interest rather than having a long list of tasks and having to search for relevant ones.

Referring now to a screenshot of a workflow analysis module is presented. The workflow analysis module permits a system administrator at the administrative computing device to review current workflows being performed and workflows that have been completed as well as the status of workflow requests . The system administrator can perform actions such as escalation of workflow requests reassignment of workflow requests and so forth.

By logging and reporting information about tasks workflows and communications the system administrator can be presented with detailed information about the various tasks being performed by users and use that information to improve processes and efficiency. The logs can include summary information about each of the alerts events communication sessions between parties voice calls text messages workflow requests acknowledgements tasks delegated tasks and escalated tasks among other information. The logs can include information captured from communication sessions such as the text content of text messages. The log can be an XML based log. An example log is presented in Table 1.

The system administrator can search and sort log information using the search filter function. A display of search results can display the log information. The results can be exported using the export selection for example to a comma delimited file. The system administrator can perform analysis of selected tasks and workflows. The system administrator can evaluate information from logs captured by the workflow server and the mobile computing devices . Each of the mobile computing device and the workflow server or any other suitable element of the task management system can capture a log of events as they occur. Events can include among other things each workflow request acceptance rejection deferred acceptance inquiry text message notification alert escalation and delegation of a task collectively messages and can include time stamps. The events can also include information regarding the status of performance such as the commencement of performance or the completion of a task collectively the performance of the task. Information regarding the performance of the task can be based on information received from the second user or can be information received from an external device such as a sensor or another computing system and can include a time stamp. Generally as each event occurs a time stamp associated with each of the events can be captured. The task management system can log all events associated with each task workflows and communications with time stamps for later review.

Referring now to a method of analyzing workflows is presented. Processing starts at start block . Processing continues to process block . At process block logs of events data such as message contents and timestamps are collected. Processing continues to process block . At process block the system administrator selects the workflow or microflow to be analyzed. The system administrator can select for example an individual task associated with a microflow all events of a microflow or ranges of workflows. For example the system administrator can select events based on the type of task a user a period of time or a combination of parameters. Processing continues to process block . In process block the system administrator can further choose a characteristic to be measured. For example the characteristic can be tasks that have not been completed among other characteristics. Processing continues to processing block .

In process block the system administrator can perform analysis of the selected data for example by computing metrics of the characteristics comparing those metrics with other metrics and comparing metrics to data. Analytic tools can be applied to analyze the information and develop metrics about the performance of tasks aspects of communications and collaboration and individual s performances. The analysis and metrics can be used to analyze business processes and create improvements. For example the comparison can be compared a metric related to tasks that have not been completed for a particular type of task with the same metric for all types of tasks to see if the selected task is on average less frequently completed than other types of tasks. The analysis can include both real time analysis e.g. for creating alerts or performing workload management and post processing aspects e.g. for evaluations or compliance .

Processing continues to process block . In process block the results can be displayed on a display screen to the system administrator or exported to a file or report. Processing then ends at end block . Visualization tools can be applied to display the information logs and metrics. For example the results can be displayed as text information or graphical presentations such as charts histograms and other graphical presentations can be used. Views of the logs metrics and analyzed data can be sorted by task by type of workflow request by user and by metric among other views. The system administrator can use views of the logs to highlight and identify areas of issues for example tasks that are past due users with too many tasks or outstanding workflow requests users who have accepted workflow requests and then abandoned the tasks types of tasks that are typically performed later than requested users that are not completing tasks on time and so forth. The system administrator can view the logs in real time or substantially real time.

The system administrator can process the log information to ensure compliance with personnel corporate or regulatory objectives. For example personnel compliance can include workload management and performance evaluations. Corporate compliance can include business efficiency evaluations or compliance with internal procedures. At a system level the system administrator can process the log information to see the amount of collaboration between and within departments and analyze the degree of organizational communication. The system administrator can check to see if confidentiality screens are being complied with or if inter disciplinary consultations on large projects are being performed as intended. Regulatory compliance can include evaluation performance of workflows to ensure that federal state and local regulations are being met. The logs can be used as evidence during certification or for insurance purposes.

The system administrator can also analyze the patterns of communication between parties to determine social networking patterns for example to analyze interdepartmental and intradepartmental collaboration and individual roles within groups. For example the system administrator can develop metrics that show the type of communications used and the frequency of communications to determine whether the types of messages in preconfigured workflow requests are sufficient or whether users typically need to fall back to person to person voice calls. The system administrator can also develop metrics that show supervisor to subordinate communications for example to show that proper channels are being used for delegating tasks. The system administrator can also develop metrics based on peer to peer communications and communications within groups for example to show communication patterns typical for certain tasks or users.

The system administrator can analyze the patterns of communications at the level of the microflow between workflows or within an aggregation of workflows. This can be used to develop metrics for analyzing an individual s participation level and status leadership ability or recognized subject matter expertise or skill level. The system administrator can create a view of a users work related social networks by analyzing users statically defined user group memberships dynamic roles and associated group memberships combined with their history of communications favorites e.g. other users and task message interactions. The analysis can include the type frequency and characteristics of the interactions to develop metrics concerning how often a user communicates with other users which users commonly interact with one another correlations of individuals to their group membership and so forth. The analysis can be an aggregated social network view a view based on workflow type or task type a view based on an individual or another suitable kind of view. The system administrator can analyze the metrics over a period of time for example to perform trend analysis to view how metrics or data are changing over time. The metrics and data can be combined or correlated with other business data.

Example analyses and metrics include but are not limited to analysis and metrics relating to subject matter expertise task distribution task completion rates staffing issues and usefulness of preconfigured tasks. With regards to subject matter expertise the analysis can enable the system administrator to determine which users are contacted the most often by other users during the performance of tasks or in general. For example the analysis can provide information about which users have skill expertise recognized by other users and which users are the kinds of users that are relied on for information versus which users are identified as dependable performers of tasks. The analysis of both kinds of users can provide the administrator with information for determining the proper combination of users to meet their organization s staffing requirements. The analysis can also identify those users that perform key mentorship roles within an organization have strong leadership skills or frequently provide assistance to other users. With regards to task distribution and staffing issues the metrics and data can determine the distribution of tasks completed by users in a particular time period and provide information about the mean median high low or other statistically useful variable. This can help the system administrator understand individual strengths or weaknesses or identify particularly good teams. The system administrator can use the metrics and data to identify potential staffing issues or other inefficiencies that cause performance to fall outside target criteria or thresholds. With regards to task completion rates the metrics and data can identify tasks that are not completed on time and allow the system administrator to review communication details to understand potential causes and reasons for unsuccessful completions. The system administrator can also identify tasks that are abandoned or uncompleted to determine the root causation. For example the system administrator can correlate activities with individuals busy times shift changes types of tasks and so forth to discover problems. The system administrator can use this information to change procedures to improve completion rates.

The system administrator can review and analyze microflows to determine the usefulness of preconfigured workflow requests predetermined phrases and predetermined completion phrases among other aspects of the task management system. For example the system administrator can review communication sessions and messages to determine those tasks where users resort to fallback communications outside of those provided by the preconfigured workflow requests predetermined phrases and predetermined completion phrases . This can provide the system administrator with information about how to make modifications to increase efficiency for example by adding new predetermined phrases . This allows the system administrator to customize the context specific aspects of the task management system to increase user efficiency and provide a more useful interface to the users of the task management system .

The above descriptions of various components and methods are intended to illustrate specific examples and describe certain ways of implementing a task management system as disclosed and described here. These descriptions are neither intended to be nor should be taken as an exhaustive list of the possible ways in which these systems and modules can be made and used. A number of modifications including substitutions of systems and modules between or among examples and variations among combinations can be made. Those modifications and variations should be apparent to those of ordinary skill in this area after having read this document.

