---

title: Methods for identification of highlight game events and automated generation of videos for same
abstract: Methods, systems and computer readable media for automated creation of videos for interactive entertainment involving at least one individual, based on events that occur within that interactive entertainment are provided. One method includes storing a video history of a session of the interactive entertainment for an individual and examining the interactive entertainment for the session to identify events designated as significant. The designation as significant for each event being predefined to meet a threshold. Then, selecting segments of video from the video history of the session of the interactive entertainment. The selected segments being for a set of the identified events. The method then generates a video defined from the selected segments of video. The video is playable to show the selected segments of video in a selected order for the individual and saving the video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929721&OS=08929721&RS=08929721
owner: Sony Computer Engineering America LLC
number: 08929721
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120202
---
This application is a continuation application under 35 USC 120 and claims priority from co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 370 327 filed on Feb. 12 2009 now U.S Pat. No. 8 515 253 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 029 261 filed on Feb. 15 2008 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of this invention relate to the creation of videos for interactive entertainment. More particularly embodiments of this invention relate to the automated creation of videos for interactive entertainment based on events that occur within that entertainment.

Multiplayer video games such as the Warhawk game which is played on the Sony PS3 game console see for example www.us.playstation.com Warhawk provide an interactive entertainment experience. Such interaction typically takes the form of a competitive group or team activity. For example in Warhawk such interaction takes place during a virtual combat experience. Certain events during any particular game play sequence are memorable to the game participants because of for example the skill exhibited by one or more participants during such event or the entertainment value of such event. Thus YouTube currently shows 1580 postings of Warhawk videos. These videos are either demonstration videos or user experience videos the latter typically comprising video tape recordings made by a participant or spectator from a monitor or television during game play. These YouTube videos are very popular having thousands and even hundreds of thousands views.

Unfortunately the most effective current approach to capturing game play is through video taping and other such means. Because videos produced in this manner are unedited analog screen captures which present game play in a linear fashion the most interesting events in a game play sequence are not highlighted or assembled into a meaningful entertaining narrative. Nor do current video capture techniques provide for more than the perspective of the immediate participant or spectator who is performing the video capture.

Thus there is a need in the art for a technique that allows for automated creation of videos for interactive entertainment based on events that occur within that entertainment.

The disadvantages associated with the prior art are overcome by embodiments of the present invention directed to a technique that allows for automated creation of videos for interactive entertainment based on events that occur within that entertainment. Thus an embodiment of the invention concerns automated movie creation based on game events. Previously replay generation was predominantly unintelligent namely it presented the historical data linearly. The presently preferred embodiment of the invention provides a technique that attempts to find the interesting moments in a game and presents them in several interesting ways.

Methods systems and computer readable media for automated creation of videos for interactive entertainment involving at least one individual based on events that occur within that interactive entertainment are provided. One method includes storing a video history of a session of the interactive entertainment for an individual and examining the interactive entertainment for the session to identify events designated as significant. The designation as significant for each event being predefined to meet a threshold. Then selecting segments of video from the video history of the session of the interactive entertainment. The selected segments being for a set of the identified events. The method then generates a video defined from the selected segments of video. The video is playable to show the selected segments of video in a selected order for the individual and saving the video.

Choosing which events to use to create the movie is a form of artificial intelligence. In one embodiment of the invention the game designates a series of events that can occur within a play session. The game must keep track of enough replay data such that these discrete events can be identified. Upon replay generation the game searches over the historical data for that session and identifies the events that have occurred. The game may present several combinations of views of those events. For example the game can create a highlights reel of the entire play session by linearly displaying several of the discovered events. Another embodiment allows the player to choose which events to view. The events could also be categorized allowing the player to view a collection of a selected event type such as all flag capture videos or all long distance shots.

Although the following detailed description contains many specific details for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention described below are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

An embodiment of the invention concerns automated movie creation based on game events. Previously replay generation was predominantly unintelligent namely it presented the historical data linearly. The presently preferred embodiment of the invention provides a technique that attempts to find the interesting moments in a game and presents them in several interesting ways.

Choosing which events to use to create the movie is a form of artificial intelligence. In one embodiment of the invention the game designates a series of events that can occur within a play session. The game must keep track of enough replay data such that these discrete events can be identified. These discrete events collectively amount to an interactive entertainment history for a particular game play session. Upon replay generation the game searches over the historical data for that session and identifies notable events that have occurred for example based upon user voting and or upon favorable comparison with a predetermined set of notable events. The game may present several combinations of views of those events. For example the game can create a highlights reel of the entire play session by linearly displaying several of the discovered events. Another embodiment allows the player to chose which events to view. The events could also be categorized allowing the player to view a collection of a selected event type such as all flag capture videos or all long distance shots.

While the invention is described herein with regard to the Sony PlayStation 3 and games that are intended for use on such game console those skilled in the art will appreciate that developers for other game consoles can readily apply the teachings herein to such other games consoles. Accordingly the invention herein is in no way limited to the specific examples provided herein.

In two or more players access a game server via a network such as the Internet. Each player uses a game console such as the Sony PlayStation 3. The game server includes a data store that stores information about each player such as a profile game statistics and the like as well as a game history comprising in one embodiment a timeline that contains events that occurred during a game session. These events can be significant events and or user designated events as described in greater detail below. The game server also includes a mechanism for assembling a game play video that includes the events contained in the timeline discussed below . In another embodiment a history may be maintained on the game console in addition to or instead of on the game server. Likewise the game console can include a mechanism for assembling a game play video that includes events contained in the timeline.

The tagged events in some embodiments can indicate a ranking of the events based upon such factors as the significance of the event e.g. a flag capture or multiple kill the difficulty of accomplishing a task associated with the event the entertainment value of the event and the like. If such events are present then the events are ordered in accordance with various factors such as significance or entertainment value.

The tagged events in some embodiments can also include user generated tags e.g. based upon voting by one or more users such as an indication that an event is entertaining for example when compiling a list of highlights as designated for example by user selection of a thumb s up icon button or the like or an indication that an event is not entertaining for example when voting to select highlights from among a list of finalist events as designated for example by user selection of a thumb s down icon button or the like which indicate a rating of the event by the players . If such rating events are present then the events are ordered according to such criteria as number of tags per event prominence of the players who tagged an event significance of the event whether the number of tags exceed a minimum threshold. This embodiment of the invention provides for user interaction with the highlight selection process e.g. it provides a mechanism that identifies the overall positive or negative affirmation by one or more users of a sequence of events in an interactive presentation such as game play at an instant in time. In this embodiment the user is provided with a mechanism such as a game controller button press by which events are designated as being of particular interest. Thus this embodiment of the invention provides a voting scheme analogous to the thumbs up rating system described above. The game players select those events that are of greatest interest during game play. User selection tags these events in a game play history. After conclusion of game play the system collates the user tags and assembles a highlights video of the game. A threshold may be established that must be met before a tagged event is considered for inclusion in a video. The system may apply various heuristics to the assembly process such as ranking events by popularity as indicated by the number of tags associated with an event. Further the system may limit the video to a specific number of tagged events such as the top five ranked events. A weighting may also be applied to the events such that some tagged events may have greater weighting than other tagged events. For example each tag in a flag capture event may be weighted greater than tags in a kill event. Thus ranking and selection of events for presentation in a video is multidimensional.

When a manual tag event is selected via the user during game play the system gives higher weight to the events that occurred in the previous N seconds. Because the system might not recognize the event as interesting this secondary mechanism allows the player to identify interesting events. For example if one person jumps off of a ledge and lands in a moving vehicle a player could tag that action as interesting. The designers of the game could see user created videos that have interesting content and patch the future version of the game to include criteria such as jumping into moving vehicles into the automated system as well.

Once the events are ordered based upon their ranking and rating for example the video is assembled . The assembly process proceeds in accordance with any of various user or programmed decisions as to which events to present how many events to present how much of an event should be presented and the like. For example some events may require inclusion of actions that lead up to the event to provide context other events may require presentation from the perspective of more than one player and the like. Further some events may be more entertaining or significant than others. Thus more popular events as indicated by user ratings may be promoted over more significant events as indicated by rankings. Alternatively one or more of the various ranking and rating factors may be used as a weighting value for one or more of the other factors. Thus while explosions for example may be more significant than crashed for purposes of ranking a particular crash may be so popular based upon it rating that it is promoted over an explosion and included in a video instead of the explosion.

Once an event has been discovered a secondary step may build a replay of the events that led up to the event. For example the Table 1 below illustrates one player placing mines that blow up two other players. The main events that the video is looking to capture are player and player being blown up by mines. From the point of mine impact the video is crafted to show the basic steps that led up to the impacts as well as several seconds past the impacts.

Many sub events may have happened to cause the event. For example in Capture the Flag the system can trace the path the flag took from the initial taking of the flag all the way to the capture of the flag. There may have been dozens of people who carried the flag and dropped the flag along the way. There may have been several long distance kills of the flag carrier. There may have been several mines that blew up around the flag carrier or killed the flag carrier. In those cases the system can also show the mines being placed then zoom forward in time to them blowing up the flag carrier. Even the initial flag take has sub events of the player approaching and taking the flag.

The system can chose the amount of events and sub events to display depending on the desired length of replay. For example if a flag capture is desired to be shown the system could designate five seconds of time to the initial flag take 20 seconds of flag carrying possibly showing five seconds of the top four events while the flag was carried and the final five seconds before the flag capture.

Further a competitive dimension may be added where tagged events in which top rated players appear are given greater weight to produce a video based at least in part on the rankings of the players who participated in a particular game.

An embodiment of the invention contemplates the selection of highlights from among highlight videos from several games. This embodiment thus provides a highlight video selected from among the highlights of several games. Thus a user may request a video be prepared that shows all of that user s tagged events from all games played by that user. Alternatively highlights from several games can be selected based upon a particular event for example the top ten flag captures. Further a voting community may select highlights. Such community may comprise for example each player who participated in a particular game top rated players a board of editors a coterie of spectators and the like.

In the highlights as represented the various events are assembled into a video based upon the various factors described above. The player profiles are also gathered from the game server or from other sources such as the player s game console webpage blog or the like. The player profile information is used to generate video credits which are then appended to the video for example at the end. The credits can include the player s game play name and the player s avatar for example. A series of chapters and or titles can also be generated . For example each chapter can provide direct access from a first level menu to a particular event. Likewise the video as well as each chapter can be entitled based upon event related metadata. Finally the video is completed and can be distributed as discussed elsewhere herein.

Various tools are provided in an embodiment that enhance the presentation aspects of the video. For example as discussed above a title and cast of characters can be automatically appended to the beginning and or end of the video for example based upon profile information for each player. Thus each player depicted in an event may be featured as a star of the video in the video credits. This same user information can also be used to highlight or otherwise distinguish one or more players for example the network ID or the username associated with a character is highlighted and presented in the video so that individual users are clearly distinguished for their actions. Thus a flag carriers would have a more distinct and valued presentation of their avatar in this embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention also provides for export of the video highlights from one or more games. Thus a user may export one or more events from a game to the World Wide Web for example for display on YouTube . Such user generated content can be shared for example at social networking sites such a Facebook or MySpace . In this embodiment videos can be automatically generated based upon machine heuristics based upon user preferences applied to the video generation process using machine automation or manually edited by each game player. In this latter category each player may present their video and receive appropriate recognition from the game player community for example an award for the most interesting most exciting or funniest video.

While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention it is possible to use various alternatives modifications and equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature described herein whether preferred or not may be combined with any other feature described herein whether preferred or not. In the claims that follow the indefinite article A or An refers to a quantity of one or more of the item following the article except where expressly stated otherwise. The appended claims are not to be interpreted as including means plus function limitations unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase means for. 

