---

title: Adaptive control of LCD display characteristics based on video content
abstract: Determining video content type of a video displayed on a LCD and triggering adjustment in drive power of the LCD based on the video content type. The video content type indicates relative content motion of the video. A video content type detection module is one or combination of a software and a hardware and directs the LCD to be driven relative slower or faster based upon video content. The module independently or in conjunction with another module identifies an active window from a plurality of windows corresponding to a plurality of applications running on the host device and sets the drive power of the LCD based on speed of a video displayed on the active window. The module may also adapt LCD drive power based upon user input and/or remaining battery life.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08730391&OS=08730391&RS=08730391
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08730391
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120522
---
The present U.S. Utility Patent Application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation to the following U.S. Utility Patent Application which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes 

1. U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 492 692 entitled Adaptive Control of LCD Display Characteristics Based on Video Content filed Jun. 26 2009 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 203 580 which claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to the following U.S. Provisional Patent Application which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility Patent Application for all purposes 

2. U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 175 378 entitled Adaptive Control of LCD Display Characteristics Based on Video Content filed May 4 2009 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to flat video displays and more particularly to the control of Liquid Crystal Displays LCDs to achieve power savings.

Liquid crystal displays LCDs are rapidly displacing traditional cathode ray tube monitors in popularity because the LCDs take up less space consume less power and offer crisp text compared to the cathode ray tube monitors. LCDs work on principle of twisting polarizing liquid crystal material under the influence of an electric field. With some LCDs light passes from a backlight source through a first polarizer passes through a layer of liquid crystals passes through a colored filter and then passes through a second polarizer that is oriented 90 degrees from the first polarizer. When light cannot pass through the second polarizer the pixel appears black. An electric field created around the liquid crystal material twists the LCD material which bends the light and lines the light up with the second polarizer allowing the light to pass through when the pixel is turned on.

LCD displays are often driven using Thin Film Transistors TFTs . With displays of this type TFTs are arranged on a glass substrate immediately below a layer of liquid crystal material pixel elements with each TFT altering the state of liquid crystal material of a corresponding pixel. Driving TFTs to a switched on state causes the corresponding pixel to turn on. The liquid crystal material of an LCD pixel will usually untwist naturally when a corresponding TFT is not driven. The TFTs can be driven to an off state and driving the TFTs rapidly from an off state to an on state is usually required when displaying fast moving images such as video. Rapid switching of the TFTs that is required to display video results in more drive power consumption of the TFTs of the LCD.

When an LCD monitor is used for viewing and editing text for example a less expensive slower and lower power consuming LCD monitor may be used. A viewer who watches action films and plays graphically intensive video games from time to time may justify the higher cost and power requirements associated with a high speed LCD monitor even though much use of the LCD is for slow moving images e.g. text editing web page browsing etc. With many LCD monitors LCD pixels are typically driven for maximum speed twisting and untwisting even though such performance is not generally required. Such operation consumes significant power which is particularly problematic for hand held devices that are battery powered.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art through comparison of such systems with various aspects of the present invention.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A notebook includes a LCD a keypad local media storage and a video content type detection module . The notebook is communicatively coupled to a remote media server via an Internet Service Provider ISP network and an Internet backbone . The notebook receives multimedia content from the remote media server via the ISP network using a wireless connection and or a wired connection. A cellular phone includes a LCD a user input interface a local media storage and a video content type detection module . The user input interface is one or more of a keypad a touchpad a pointer a pen and or a touch screen. The cellular phone is attached to a terrestrial cellular network . The cellular phone receives multimedia content from the remote media server via the terrestrial cellular network and the Internet backbone . The local media storage is on board memories of the notebook and the cellular phone respectively or removable storage devices. The multimedia content received by the notebook and the cellular phone from the remote media server includes one or combination of real time and or archived multimedia content such as text audio video and picture. The multimedia content stored in the local media storages and the multimedia content received from the remote media server are one of an interactive media such as a video game and a non interactive media such as a movie a word processor a spreadsheet a recorded video etc. A television includes a LCD and a video content type detection module . The television receives television channels from one or both of a terrestrial TV network and a satellite network . A television channel is a movie a music video a television program a sporting or other entertainment event a news report or any of a variety of units of recorded or live multimedia content.

The notebook includes a graphics card not shown in the figure that generates and outputs electric signals to the LCD resulting in display of images on the LCD screen . Input to the graphics card is video media content that the notebook retrieves from the local media storage or the remote media server . The graphics card generates electric fields that twist or untwist liquid crystal pixel elements corresponding to each pixel of the screen making each pixel appear transparent or dark colored. The pattern of dark color and transparent pixels form an image on the LCD . Fast changing images such as those of moving video content requires rapid twisting or untwisting of liquid crystal pixel elements which requires high drive power. The video content type detection module is communicatively coupled to the graphics card of the notebook and retrieves information regarding content that is currently displayed on the LCD from the graphics card. The information regarding the video content includes one or combination of 1 number of frames displayed per second and or 2 color and intensity of each pixel. The video content type detection module instructs the graphics card of the notebook to change drive power of the LCD based on the information regarding the video. The module monitors the information regarding the video content continuously and necessitates a change in the drive power of the LCD accordingly. As a way of example and without limitation a music video is displayed on the LCD . The music video is a slow video and images on the LCD do not change frequently. The module determines how rapidly an image on the LCD changes based on change in pixel intensity and color between successive frames and instructs the graphics card to decrease the drive power of the LCD . Decrease in the LCD drive power leads to power saving which is particularly important if the notebook is running on a battery. For example another music video is not equally slow in every portion of the video. A faster portion of another music video includes images that change very rapidly. The video content type detection module continuously monitors the intensity and color of pixels in each frame and triggers the graphics card to increase the drive power of the LCD during the faster portion of the another music video thereby enabling the liquid crystal pixel elements to twist and untwist rapidly. The module triggers a decrease in the LCD drive power once the faster portion of another music video gets over.

In another embodiment of the present invention the video content type detection module is adapted to monitor a plurality of videos that are currently displayed on the LCD and trigger a change in LCD drive power accordingly thereby leading to an optimum usage of power. As an example a plurality of videos each in a separate window are running on the notebook . The plurality of videos are a recorded video running in a first window and a word processor running in a second window. The video content type detection module retrieves information regarding the plurality of videos from the display driver at a first instant of time and determines as an example that the second window is active and the first window is in a minimized position. The module further determines rate at which images are changing in the word processor based on the information retrieved from the graphics card. The module instructs the graphics card of the notebook to set the LCD drive power to a value that is sufficient to track changing images in the word processor. A user of the notebook opens the first window at a second instant of time. The module senses a rapid movement of images in the currently active first window based on the information retrieved from the graphics card at the second instant of time. Therefore the module causes an increase in the LCD drive power that is sufficient to track the changing images of the recoded video in the first window. The video content type detection module controls the LCD drive power in one or more of the following ways 1 the module selects current LCD drive power from a list of predetermined values and informs the graphics card 2 the module instructs the graphics card to increase or decrease the LCD drive power in steps and the graphics card ascertains LCD drive power depending on number of steps.

In yet another embodiment a video or an application such as a word processor a spreadsheet a drawing tool etc. currently running on the notebook stores its requirement for example the frames per second in a registry. The video content type detection module retrieves information corresponding to the requirement from the registry and instructs the graphics card to drive the LCD at a power based on the requirement. The module is further adapted to trigger an adjustment in the LCD drive power based on 1 whether the notebook is running on a battery and 2 remaining power in the battery of the notebook when the notebook is running on the battery. The module causes the graphics card to switch to a lower LCD drive power if the notebook runs on a battery and or the remaining power in the battery of the notebook goes below a predefined threshold.

The cellular phone and the television comprise video content type detection modules and respectively that are communicatively coupled to respective graphics cards. The modules and trigger the respective graphics cards to adjust drive powers of the LCDs and respectively based on speed of videos currently displayed on the LCDs and . The modules and need a finite amount of time to detect characteristics of the videos currently displayed on the LCDs and respectively and to trigger changes in corresponding LCD drive powers. In yet one more embodiment of the present invention each of the modules and delays respective video by a few frames and performs the detection and the triggering in the meantime. In this embodiment each of the modules and stores the few frames in a local memory of the respective devices. The local memory can be on board memory of respective graphics cards. The plurality of devices can be one of a smart phone a video game box a personal digital assistant PDA and a personal computer apart from being a notebook a cellular phone and a television .

Each of the devices and of are indicated to include a video content detection module. The video content detection module in some embodiments is hardware e.g. circuitry that determines video content type and that adjusts the drive of the LCD based upon detection. In other embodiments the video content detection module is one or more software modules running on a host processor of the corresponding device. In still another embodiment the video content detection module is a combination of hardware and software. The reader should understand that functions performed by the video content detection module require hardware to perform although control of such hardware may be partially or fully enacted using software instructions.

The TFT is switched on at a next instant of time as shown in . Referring to a voltage is applied to the TFT . This in turn causes generation of an electric filed near the cells. The cells i.e. the liquid crystal pixel elements or portions thereof twist under the influence of the electric field causing a 90 degree bend in the polarized light. The polarized light now passes through the second polarizer . There is a red filter in front of the layer . Therefore the pixel appears as red. The crystal elements untwist and arrange in horizontal position as shown in once the drive voltage is removed. The liquid crystal pixel elements require a finite amount of time to untwist and come back to the horizontal position. This finite amount of time determines how rapidly the liquid crystal pixel elements can twist and untwist and thereby limits maximum speed of a video that can be displayed on the TFT LCD. Alternately a voltage can be applied to the TFT to untwist the twisted crystal elements faster thereby increasing the maximum allowable speed of the video on the TFT LCD but at the expense of more power. Power consumption by the TFT LCD increases with an increase in the speed of the video that is displayed on the TFT LCD. According to the present invention based upon video content that is displayed on the LCD the operation of the LCD is altered. For example for a first type of video content first drive settings may be applied to the TFT while for a second type of video content second drive settings may be applied to the TFT . With the first drive settings the TFT operates more slowly than with the second drive settings but the TFT consumes less power.

A multimedia content decoder receives digital information form the RF circuitry when the received information is in a digital format decodes the digital information and forwards decoded audio part and decoded video part to the audio card and the graphics card respectively. TV channels broadcast in digital format are coded for example the coding used in HDTV is MPEG II. Alternately the sound card performs decoding of the audio part and the graphics card performs decoding of the video part. In such a case the multimedia content decoder is not necessary.

Information necessary to display the video part of a TV channel on the LCD such as i frequency of row and column scanning or raster scanning ii pixel intensity and iii pixel colors during each raster scan are embedded in the video part of the RF signal. The graphics chip is communicatively coupled to the TFT thin film transistor controller . The graphics chip generates and sends signals to the TFT controller such that the TFT controller generates appropriate voltages to switch on TFTs. The TFTs are arranged on a glass substrate immediately below a layer of liquid crystal pixel elements. The switched on TFTs twist the liquid crystal pixel elements thereby creating an image colored in some embodiments on the LCD . The liquid crystal pixel elements untwist and return to their original state when the TFTs are switched off thereby making the LCD pixels appear black. The TFTs pass through rapid on and off states in order to display a video i.e. rapidly changing images pictures frames on the LCD . The TFT controller generates voltages based on the 1 row and column scanning information and 2 the pixel intensity and color RGB information received from the graphics chip .

A video content type detection module is communicatively coupled to the graphics chip . The module is the additional hardware and or software that enable the TFT controller to change display characteristics of the LCD based on content of video displayed on the LCD . The module determines relative speed of image changes of a video currently being displayed on the LCD by monitoring the how frequently the pixel intensity and colors change between successive raster scans. The pixel intensity and color do not change much between successive raster scans in a slow video. However intensity and color of pixels change rapidly between successive raster scans in case of a fast video thereby requiring liquid crystal pixel elements or liquid crystal pixels that have fast response time.

The module instructs the TFT controller via the graphics chip to reduce the TFT voltage drive when a slow video is running on the LCD . Drive voltage generation module in the TFT controller in response to the instruction from the module generates a lower voltage to drive the liquid crystal pixels thereby saving power. For example and without limitation a sporting event is being telecast on the television . The video content type detection module monitors the frames of the video corresponding to the sporting event and determines that current drive voltage setting of the TFT controller is inadequate to display the fast moving sporting event properly. The module triggers the drive voltage generation module in the TFT controller to increase the TFT voltage drive by one or more steps. A range of possible TFT drive voltages may be divided into a plurality of steps. The drive voltage generation module is adapted to increase and decrease the TFT drive voltage levels by the multiples of steps. The TFT controller further includes Row Column Scanning circuitry Pixel RGB circuitry and pixel intensity generation circuitry .

In another embodiment of the present invention the television supports picture in picture PIP functionality. The television displays a first channel in a first window and a second channel in a second window. By way of example a news report is telecast on the first channel and a movie is telecast on the second channel. A first video corresponding to the news report is a slower video compared to a second video corresponding to the movie. The video content type detection module determines the TFT drive voltages necessary to display the first channel and the second channel on the LCD . The second channel has faster moving images than the first channel and requires a higher TFT drive voltage. The TFT drive voltage necessary for proper display of the second channel is thus sufficient for proper display of the first channel but the vice versa is not true. The module triggers the drive voltage generation module to generate high TFT drive voltage that is appropriate for displaying the fast moving second video. At a second instance of time another news report is telecast in the second channel. A lower TFT drive voltage is now sufficient to display the first channel and the second channel properly on the LCD because videos corresponding to news channels are slow videos. The video content type detection module triggers the drive voltage generation module to reduce the TFT drive voltage thereby saving power.

The LCD driver includes the drive voltage generation module that is responsible for generating drive voltages that are to be applied to liquid crystal pixels of the LCD screen . The drive voltage generation module generates drive voltages based on the above information regarding the video content wherein the information is received by the LCD driver from the processing circuitry . The received multimedia content is one or more of real time and or archived multimedia content such as text movie picture recorded video streaming video etc. In one embodiment the multimedia content comes from a local memory . The local memory shown here is an on board memory. The local memory may alternately be a removable memory such as a pen drive a compact disc etc. The multimedia content from the local memory is archived information and reaches the processing circuitry and to be displayed on the LCD by way of interaction of the LCD driver with the processing circuitry that includes the graphics chip . Of course the cellular phone may include additional components in other embodiments such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN transceiver a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN transceiver and or other components.

According to the present embodiment a video content type detection module sits in between the processing circuitry and the LCD driver . The video content type detection module is additional hardware that may include software that enables the LCD driver to change its display characteristics based on content of video displayed on the LCD . The video content type detection module retrieves information regarding video currently being displayed on the LCD from the processing circuitry . The module determines relative display speed of the video from the information regarding the video. Relatively slower video requires relatively slower acting liquid crystal pixels with relatively slower response time compared to relatively faster acting liquid crystal pixels required for fast moving videos. Examples of the slow video and the fast video are a word processor and a video game respectively. Another set of examples are phonebook application in a cellular phone and a recorded video clip respectively. Response time of liquid crystal pixels is adjusted by increasing drive voltage of the pixels though such an increase in the drive voltage causes more power consumption by the cellular phone . The video content type detection module upon determining the speed of the video instructs the LCD driver to adjust the pixel drive voltage so as to make the pixel drive voltage optimum. In other words the module triggers a decrease in pixel drive voltage if the video is a slow one and triggers an increase in pixel drive voltage if the video is a fast one.

The video may be for example is a movie. The movie has a first portion where the images change very rapidly and a second portion where the images change slowly compared to the first portion. According to the present invention the second portion of the movie will be properly displayed on the LCD even if the liquid crystal pixels respond slowly during the second portion of the movie. The module initiates a decrease in the pixel drive voltage as soon as the movie reaches the second portion and instructs the LCD driver to generate a pixel drive voltage that is sufficient for proper display of the second portion. The video content type detection module therefore causes a reduction in power consumption by the cellular phone that runs on the battery . The module may operate to alter pixel drive voltage on a frame by frame basis. The module determines the pixel drive voltage based on the 1 frequency of row and column scanning and 2 the pixel intensity and colors in each scanning. The module continuously monitors the above characteristics of a video and thereby causes a change in pixel drive voltage as and when required. The module requires a finite time to determine the pixel drive voltage. The module may store a few frames of the video in the memory of the cellular phone to gain this time. A time delay equivalent to the few frames makes no difference to a viewer as long as the frames of the video are displayed in correct order.

The video content type detection module changes the pixel drive voltage based on current activity on the LCD screen . As a way of example at a first instance of time a video clip is being displayed on the LCD screen . The module determines minimum possible pixel drive voltage for the video clip and causes the LCD driver to drive the liquid crystal pixels at the minimum possible pixel drive voltage. At a second instance of time a user minimizes a window corresponding to the video clip. The pixels continue to be driven by the LCD driver though the user is not watching the video clip. The video content type detection module retrieves information corresponding to the current activity on the LCD screen and causes the LCD driver to stop driving the pixels until the window becomes active. The module needs to communicate with the application that runs the video clip to detect the activity status of the window i.e. the current activity on the LCD screen . In this example the application can be as an example a real player or a windows media player. The module communicates with the application via the processing circuitry .

The video content type detection module is further adapted to initiate a change in the pixel drive voltage based on charge remaining in the battery . The module checks the charge remaining in the battery at regular intervals. The module may perform the checking by interacting with the processing circuitry . The module instructs the LCD driver to generate a predefined pixel drive voltage irrespective of speed of the video currently being displayed on the LCD and current activity on the LCD screen when the charge remaining in the battery goes below a threshold level. As a result battery power gets saved although fast moving videos appear blurry on the LCD screen . In another embodiment the video content type detection module causes the pixel drive voltage to be varied based on type of the video and current activity on the LCD screen even when the charge remaining in the battery goes below the threshold level but causes the pixel drive voltage to be always a few percent for example 10 percent below the required pixel drive voltage. Reducing the pixel drive voltage in this way causes all types of videos to be equally affected.

The display card is driven by a display driver and may be software that runs on the CPU . A graphics Application Program Interface API that may run OpenGL Direct3D DirectX or another software application also runs on the CPU . The CPU derives power from a battery when the CPU is disconnected from an external power supply. One or more of a variety of applications run on the CPU . The applications are for example and without limitation a word processor a media player a spreadsheet a drawing tool a video game a presentation application a browser etc. Each of these applications requires display of pictures and or videos on the LCD . Applications such as the media player and the video game call for rapid change of images on the LCD while applications such as the word processor the drawing tool and the browser need images on the LCD to change at a slower rate. A user runs and or interacts with the applications via a user input interface . The CPU the user input interface the battery the display card the TFT controller and the LCD together are found in a plurality of devices such as a video game box a personal computer a notebook a smart phone etc.

A video content type detection module which may be software or a combination of software and hardware runs on the CPU . The video content type detection module receives information regarding a video being currently displayed on the LCD from the display driver . The information regarding the video includes i frames per second displayed on the LCD and ii pixel color and intensity for each frame. The video content type detection module determines speed of the video based on the above information and determines desired response time of liquid crystal pixels i.e. how fast the liquid crystal pixels should twist and untwist based on the speed of the video. The video content type detection module informs the display card about the desired response time. Either the display card or the TFT controller determines desired TFT drive voltage corresponding to the desired response time and the drive voltage generation module generates the desired TFT drive voltage. The video content type detection module studies the information regarding the video once per frame and therefore may trigger a change in the desired response time once per frame. In another embodiment the module triggers a change in the desired response once per second or at another time interval. In yet another embodiment the module retrieves the information regarding video corresponding to an application when the application begins thereby causing the TFT controller to change the TFT drive voltage once per active application change.

The video content type detection module may set the desired response time of the liquid crystal pixels to a value that is required for fastest video among a plurality of videos running on the CPU simultaneously. As an example at a first instance of time a video game a word processor and a presentation application are running on a first window a second window and a third window respectively. The video content type detection module sets the desired response time to a value required for proper display of the video game though the word processor and the presentation application are displayed properly with a lower response time. At a second instance of time a user minimized the first window and overlays the second window on the third window because the user works with the word processor only. A window activity detection module is another piece of software that runs on the CPU and is adapted to sense if a window is visually active. At the second instance of time the window activity detection module senses that the second window is visually active and the first window and the third window are visually inactive. The window activity detection module forwards information regarding activity of currently open windows to the video content type detection module . The module in response to the information from the window activity detection module sets the desired response time of the liquid crystal pixels to a lower value that is sufficient for proper display of the word processor. The video content type detection module and the window activity detection module cause saving in power by driving the liquid crystal pixels at optimum drive voltage. A power management block that runs on the CPU which may be software and or hardware also functions to assist in power savings operations.

A LCD drive override module causes a change in pixel drive voltage based on an input entered via the user input interface . The user input interface is one or more of a variety of a keyboard and a mouse a touch screen a joystick a pen and a touch pad a thumbwheel etc. The LCD drive override module may be software that runs on the CPU . A user inputs a data using the user input interface in an applet that shows current LCD drive settings and a range of possible LCD drive settings. The applet forwards the data to the LCD drive override module which in response to the data determines a new LCD drive setting based on the data and instructs the video content type detection module to drive the LCD with the new LCD drive setting. The video content type detection module ceases to monitor video content and modify LCD drive power as long as the LCD drive override module continues to override LCD drive settings. The LCD drive override module is adapted to override the LCD drive settings for a short period of time for example a few minutes. The LCD drive settings revealed by the applet to the user comprise one or more of for example and without limitation i range of speeds of video supported by the LCD on a 5 point relative scale and ii possible values for brightness of the LCD screen on a 3 point relative scale. As an example the data entered by the user asks for a video speed 3 and LCD brightness 3. In response to the data the LCD drive override module instructs the video content type detection module to drive the LCD at maximum brightness and at medium response time that is sufficient to display videos of medium speed i.e. videos having a speed 3 on the 5 point relative scale. The video content type detection module determines desired pixel response time corresponding to desired screen brightness and desired video speed support and informs the display card about the desired pixel response time.

As an example a video game requires a relatively larger number of frames or images to be displayed per second on the LCD so that fast moving objects in the video game appear properly on the LCD . The content of images change slowly between consecutive frames in a word processor application because the change in the contents of the images depend on how fast a user of the word processor enters data via the user input interface . A first application for example the video game a second application for example the word processor and a third application for example a media player store the corresponding minimum display characteristics in a first registry a second registry and a third registry respectively. The display driver retrieves a minimum display characteristic corresponding to an application from the corresponding registry when the application starts. The display driver determines LCD drive voltage based on the minimum display characteristic and directs the display card to drive the LCD at the determined drive voltage as long as the application runs on the CPU . As a way of example a spreadsheet application and a browser are running simultaneously on the CPU and are displayed on the LCD on two separate windows. The display driver directs the display card to apply a LCD drive voltage that corresponds to minimum display characteristic identified by the browser because the minimum display characteristic identified by the browser is higher than minimum display characteristics identified by the spreadsheet.

The CPU is powered by a battery when the device housing the CPU is unplugged. The battery interacts with the display driver via a power management block . The power management block is may be software that runs on the CPU hardware or a combination of both. The power management block is adapted to override display characteristic setting when the battery power goes below a predefined value. In one embodiment the power management block is adapted to fully override the display characteristic setting. The power management block saves battery power by setting the LCD drive voltage to a low value corresponding to a slow video irrespective of type of one or more applications currently displayed on the LCD . In another embodiment the power management block is adapted to partially override the display characteristic setting. The block may define a set of possible display characteristics for example possible video speeds and forces applications running on the CPU to identify a speed from the above set. The set of video speeds as an example does not include a video speed required in a video game. The power management block ensures that LCD is driven by high power when the battery power is below a predefined value. In such a case a video game running on the CPU ends up selecting a video speed less than its requirement.

In another embodiment of the present invention the display driver does not drive the LCD to untwist quickly when a slow video is displayed on the LCD thereby saving power and allowing the liquid crystal pixels to untwist naturally. The liquid crystal pixels need a finite time to untwist naturally. The display driver applies a drive voltage to the LCD for untwisting when a fast response time is required for properly displaying a fast video on the LCD . In yet another embodiment the TFT controller measures hysteresis or time lag between application of the drive voltage to the LCD and formation of image on the LCD . The hysteresis is due to finite time taken by the liquid crystal pixels to twist and or untwist. The TFT controller forwards the hysteresis value to the display driver via the display card . The display driver triggers the display card to increase the LCD drive voltage in steps and consequently causing the hysteresis value to decrease until the hysteresis value crosses a predefined threshold. The display driver causes a decrease in the LCD drive voltage if the hysteresis value is below the predefined threshold.

The CPU may also run a graphics API and a video content detection module that operate to process video according to the present invention. The operation of the video content type detection module was described previously herein and is not described further with respect to .

The video content type detection module forwards the video content type to a pixel drive determination module in a step . The pixel drive determination module determines a pixel drive setting such as a pixel drive power based on the video content type and minimum possible response time of liquid crystal pixels. The pixel drive determination module sets pixel drive power to a higher value for a game video than pixel drive power for a word processor because pixels under a high drive power responds faster to input images thereby rendering fast changing images i.e. a high speed video on the LCD. The pixel drive determination module forwards the pixel drive setting to the graphics card in a step and the graphics card drives the LCD at the pixel drive setting. The method then ends. In one embodiment the method is performed every time a new application starts running on the host device. In another embodiment the method is performed at regular intervals such as once every 5 minutes.

The terms circuit and circuitry as used herein may refer to an independent circuit or to a portion of a multifunctional circuit that performs multiple underlying functions. For example depending on the embodiment processing circuitry may be implemented as a single chip processor or as a plurality of processing chips. Likewise a first circuit and a second circuit may be combined in one embodiment into a single circuit or in another embodiment operate independently perhaps in separate chips. The term chip as used herein refers to an integrated circuit. Circuits and circuitry may comprise general or specific purpose hardware or may comprise such hardware and associated software such as firmware or object code.

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s coupled to and or coupling and or includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to. As may even further be used herein the term operable to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal has a greater magnitude than signal a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal is greater than that of signal or when the magnitude of signal is less than that of signal .

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

