---

title: Method and system for activation and funding of prepaid card accounts within a restricted authorization network
abstract: A method for activating and funding a stored value, prepaid card account includes acquiring, with a point of sale (POS) device, a first data set associated with the card and purchase thereof, and a second data set associated with the card and activation, deactivation, funding, loading, and reloading thereof. The method also includes transmitting a specific transaction trigger amount for card account activation and transmitting the second data set across a universal payment network to an authorization system associated with the second data set. The method further includes transmitting, from the authorization system, a transaction approval message to the POS including data relating to a funded value of the account, an electronic settlement message causing payment to the merchant for selling the card, an electronic message in the amount of the funded value of the account plus the specific transaction trigger amount, and an electronic message to debit the account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862504&OS=08862504&RS=08862504
owner: Store Financial Services, LLC
number: 08862504
owner_city: Leawood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 446 814 filed Feb. 25 2011 and titled UNIVERSAL ACTIVATION AND DEACTIVATION OF STORED VALUE AND RELOADABLE ACCOUNTS USING RESTRICTED AUTHORIZATION NETWORKS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The field of the disclosure relates generally to the payment card industry and more specifically to methods and systems relating to universal activation deactivation and funding of reloadable stored value prepaid cards and the associated access and card accounts for example via restricted authorization networks.

The current configuration of the payment card industry includes both open loop and closed loop networks. Specifically open and closed loop networks have been built on local regional national and international scales. For example banking systems communicate via open loop networks that typically utilize standardized architectures and protocols such as International Organization for Standardization ISO standard 8583 to ensure interoperability worldwide from retailer to bank card networks to bank card processors.

Examples of open loop bank card networks include Visa MasterCard American Express and Discover . Services offered by these companies include credit debit prepaid and general purpose reloadable card services. Further examples of similar open loop networks include network associated with banking for example Cirrus Plus Starcard and Interlink signature and pin based debit card networks. The scope of the worldwide open loop payment network includes over 20 million points of sale points of payment i.e. POS POP or merely POS.

Closed loop networks typically communicate via proprietary architectures and protocols directly between POS systems at retailers and switching platforms where databases associated with the various card accounts reside. Such closed loop network systems are developed using proprietary protocols and processing architectures. Therefore gateway switches are needed to complete protocol mapping and translation between the various proprietary systems. Closed loop networks may operate from tens to a few hundred thousand points of payment or service. Examples of such closed loop networks include retail card programs such as Apple iTunes Starbucks Facebook and Target gift cards.

Hybrid networks have been created that utilize a discrete subset of an international open loop bank card network to emulate the features of the proprietary closed loop network. These hybrids are often referred to as restricted authorization network s or RAN s . A RAN typically is built around a common loyalty geographic or business theme that provides a natural and often obvious relationship for the network to operate. An example would be a gift card for a particular mall and usable with at least a majority of the retailers associated with the particular mall.

Retail and service oriented companies have created proprietary closed loop processing platforms where transactional gateways and bridges to open loop networks are typically implemented and segmented separately from the internal POS systems. Transactional routing and custom logic supporting message translation is used within a gateway switch to link internal POS networks to the open loop networks. Both closed loop processing platforms and open loop processing platforms may include virtual Internet mobile sites and electronic wallets where a plurality of funded prepaid accounts reside within their domain of operation.

In certain applications a physical format of prepaid cards typically is proprietary to the networks for which the card has been assigned. Some cards utilize only a barcode while others utilize a magnetic strip or stripe . Still others may incorporate both or still further the well known 16 digit card number may be printed or imprinted on such cards. In summary card structures vary between open and closed loop networks. One specific format is utilized for payment cards intended for use in the open loop networks which allows such cards to traverse the entire 20 million points of the worldwide open loop network. Alternatively proprietary closed loop cards are limited to a single network and the finite number of locations available to the card issuer and processor.

In regard to card activation services for both the open loop and closed loop network activation networks currently exist in the form of direct connections to retail POS POP systems. Such connections may be via Web based or direct connect client server architectures via mobile applications and gateways as features of the merchant acquirer networks and services as applications that reside within POS systems and as features of the global universal payment networks such as VISA MasterCard Discover and American Express . The majority of stored value prepaid card accounts are activated via closed loop retail issuers. Other closed loop payment card activations are via gift card mall services offered by various entities and many others as well as via web based applications. Industry examples of companies offering and managing activation and funding networks include inComm Blackhawk Network Green Dot NetSpend and PayPal .

Growth in retail and service industry card programs in the United States has reached a plateau with minimal year over year growth. The industry is researching opportunities to leverage marketing and service partner relationships to offer new stored value products and services. One of the problems and issues with current stored value products and the processes used to activate deactivate load and reload cards and virtual accounts is that activation and funding of a specific prepaid card is typically limited to the specific point of sale systems where proprietary closed loop network software has been installed to support the activation process. In such systems integration of proprietary software requires significant testing and integration tasks that may also need to span various POS hardware manufacturers and software systems. The result is extensive time and labor needed to implement the proprietary activation solution.

Another of the problems and issues with current stored value prepaid products and the associated processes is that open loop activation of such cards requires software changes to support the network specific transactions proprietary to the universal payment networks. This solution also entails added cost and effort for integration and testing prior to full scale implementation across a retail POS platform.

With both open and closed loop networks residing within the United States the Federal Reserve Bank s Automated Clearing House ACH and wire transfer network is used to complete electronic transfers of funds from one bank account to another. An equivalent central banking system and network is prevalent in countries worldwide and is used to complete electronic settlement in support of payments for goods and services completed using stored value prepaid cards.

Finally physical card formats are manufactured with varying magnetic stripe and bar code data which are proprietary to the network resulting in added cost and complexity for maintaining inventory for the various proprietary card networks. As such retailers are hesitant to offer sell and activate stored value cards that are not associated with the universal payment networks.

In one aspect a method for activating and funding a stored value prepaid card account is provided. The method includes acquiring with a point of sale POS device a first data set associated with a stored value prepaid card the first data set also associated with a purchase of the stored value prepaid card. The method also includes acquiring with the POS device a second data set associated with the stored value prepaid card the second data set also associated with activation deactivation funding loading and reloading of a stored value prepaid card account. The method further includes transmitting at least one specific transaction trigger amount pre defined for card activation and the second data set from the POS device onto a universal payment network. The method also includes receiving the transmission at an authorization system associated with the second data set. The method further includes transmitting from the authorization system a transaction approval message to the POS the transaction approval message including data relating to a funded value of the stored value prepaid card account. The method also includes transmitting from the authorization system an electronic settlement message causing a payment to be made to the merchant for selling the stored value prepaid card. The method further includes transmitting from the authorization system an electronic message in the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card account plus the specific transaction trigger amount the electronic message operable to debit an account of an entity with which the stored value prepaid card may be redeemed. The method also includes settling the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card account plus the specific transaction amount with an operator of the authorization system and a universal payment network.

In another aspect one or more non transitory computer readable storage media is are provided. The non transitory computer readable storage media has computer executable instructions embodied thereon wherein when executed by at least one processor the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to acquire with a point of sale POS device a first data set associated with a stored value prepaid card the first data set also associated with a purchase of the stored value prepaid card. The computer executable instructions also cause the at least one processor to acquire with the POS device a second data set associated with the stored value prepaid card the second data set also associated with an activation deactivation funding loading and reloading of a stored value prepaid card account. The computer executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to transmit at least one specific transaction trigger amount pre defined for card activation and the second data set from the POS device onto a universal payment network. The computer executable instructions also cause the at least one processor to receive the transmission at an authorization system associated with the second data set and transmit from the authorization system a transaction approval message to the POS the transaction approval message including data relating to a funded value of the stored value prepaid card account. The computer executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to transmit from the authorization system an electronic settlement message causing a payment to be made to the merchant for selling the stored value prepaid card. The computer executable instructions also cause the at least one processor to transmit from the authorization system an electronic message in the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card account plus the specific transaction trigger amount the electronic message operable to debit an account of an entity with which the stored value prepaid card may be redeemed. The computer executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to settle the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card account plus the specific transaction amount with an operator of the authorization system and the universal payment network.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed can be achieved independently in various embodiments or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

The described embodiments are directed to an industry need that exists for a standardized uniform card structure and format and uniform activation and funding network crossing the boundaries of proprietary systems and processing platforms in global use today.

With regard to the universal card described herein it generally refers to a stored value prepaid card issued to consumers to use as a form of payment allowing the cardholder to buy goods and services. In physical embodiments the stored value prepaid card and the associated universal card account may take the form of a bankcard a coupon a pharmacy card virtual wallet or another third party system product. The stored value prepaid card at least partially defines a portal to the associated stored value prepaid card account that includes without limitation prepaid access accounts.

The universal payment network also referred to as a card payment network described herein refers to a global network for routing a Primary Account Number PAN and other routable account numbers. Specifically the universal payment network is a transaction network system that implements and manages the mechanics of the electronic transactions from point of sale or point of payment i.e. POS POP or merely POS to the card issuer and processor.

A common universal payment network protocol is ISO 8583 and this protocol as referred to herein is generally described as a protocol for financial transaction card originated messages. ISO 8583 is an interchange message specification that is the International Organization for Standardization standard for systems that exchange electronic transactions made by cardholders using physical and virtual payment cards linked to funded accounts.

The systems described herein provide fully managed and fully automated delivery of commissions owed to a distributor and activator of card accounts. In embodiments such systems incorporate certain restricted access network RAN features. For example embodiments include a RAN mall configuration which is a congregation of retailers implemented via RAN technology using multiple prepaid universal cards distributed via a third party distributor. Such systems incorporate for example transaction trigger amounts both fixed and variable which are specific amounts that trigger an event within the account activation and funding system. Further customized merchant program network restrictions may be accomplished through filtered authorization networks. In embodiments PAN status changes are based on predefined choices based on a trigger amount and certain processes which are described below are initiated after specific ISO 8583 messages are received through the universal payment network including but not limited to activation loading reloading reversal void deactivation commission commission reversal and others.

For example in response to an activation request message an account is set to Active status and funded. The account may be the actual universal payment card used at the POS or the account may be a third party proprietary account tied to the universal payment card. A reversal void operation indication within the message cancels an activation transaction prior to settlement causing the activated account to be reset to its original inactive and unfunded state. A deactivation operation indication within the message cancels an activation transaction some time after settlement causing the activated account to be reset to its original inactive state. A commissions process is indicated in the authorization messages and represents an amount owed by program owner to distributor or card activator and similarly a commissions reversal indication is related to a process of reversing payment of commission by a card distributor to program owner.

In at least some of the embodiments described herein methods and processes are practiced by which PAN and trigger authorization amounts are entered into point of payment for delivery via universal payment network. These include but are not limited to a manual entry that is keyed in via number pad or key board a virtual entry made via the World Wide Web or via an online computer system. Such entries also include without limitation an entry made by swiping an encoded magnetic stripe through a magnetic stripe reader. Furthermore such entries include without limitation an entry made by an optical machine reading a bar code for example a machine readable representation of data in one dimension 1D two dimensions 2D 3D and holographic formats. Moreover such entries include without limitation entries made via cellular and portable devices through wireless networks and sometimes referred to as mobile apps via contactless entry for example NFC near field communication WiBree RFID and other proprietary entry systems which wirelessly transmit PAN data and other proprietary methods.

Some embodiments described herein involve the use of one or more electronic or computing devices. Such devices typically include a processor or controller such as a general purpose central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a microcontroller a reduced instruction set computer RISC processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic circuit PLC and or any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein. The above examples are exemplary only and thus are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term processor.

Such electronic or computing devices also typically include a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may include one or more tangible non transitory computer readable media such as without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM a solid state disk a hard disk read only memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and or non volatile RAM NVRAM memory.

The methods described herein may be encoded as executable instructions embodied in a tangible non transitory computer readable medium including without limitation a storage device and or a memory device. Such instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform at least a portion of the methods described herein. Moreover as used herein the term non transitory computer readable media includes all tangible computer readable media such as a firmware physical and virtual storage CD ROMs DVDs and another digital source such as a network or the Internet as well as yet to be developed digital means with the sole exception being a transitory propagating signal.

If the authorization request is associated with an entity other than that associated with authorization system the request for activation is forwarded from authorization system to an appropriate third party system . Upon receipt of a successful activation response from third party system a response of approved is sent back through universal payment network to POS POP system via authorization system . With regard to third party system a reloadable prepaid card account is activated and a response of activation successful is sent back to authorization system .

If the determinations described above are all positive authorization system performs activation and funding of the account associated to the PAN either in a bank card processing system coupon virtual wallet credit issuing system or similar system. Upon activation and funding authorization system sets the value of available balance fields in the authorization response message to the balance available of the activated account. Authorization system sets the value of the authorization response code in the authorization response message to the available balance of the activated product and an approval response is sent to the message originator.

If the determinations described above are all positive authorization system performs deactivation of the account associated to the trigger PAN either in a bank card processing system coupon virtual wallet credit issuing system or similar system. Authorization system sets the value of available balance fields in the authorization response message to zero indicating that the activated account has been deactivated. Authorization system sets the value of the authorization response code in the authorization response message to for example 9VOID9 in one embodiment indicating that the activated product has been deactivated and an approval response is sent to the message originator.

Authorization system determines if the original transaction is an activation. If so authorization system performs deactivation logic flow shown in . Otherwise authorization system determines if the original transaction is a deactivation. If so authorization system performs activation logic flow shown in .

The following paragraph describes an example application for the universal account activation service and associated method described herein and is referred to as a restricted authorization network RAN activation service or RASER. RASER refers to a method for activating and funding a fixed or variable denomination RAN prepaid card account at a physical merchant location through their existing POS or payment terminal One benefit to such an activation and funding process is that no information technology changes or integration at either the merchant s end the POS POP or at the provider of authorization services e.g. StoreFinancial are required.

Prior to activation and funding a RAN prepaid card is basically a dormant card account tied to one of the open loop universal payment network systems e.g. VISA or MasterCard via a PAN. The account is set to a pre activated and unfunded system state waiting for the transaction trigger amount RAN POS data and assigned PAN to be sent and received via the universal payment network.

After the sale of the stored value prepaid card is completed a clerk is required to ring up the predetermined trigger amount in the POS POP system of the merchant. As an example a trigger amount may be 1 100th of the face value of the prepaid card. Another known unique amount may be used as the trigger amount. The clerk swipes the inactive prepaid card through the POS system as the payment method for the trigger transaction amount. This swipe is in essence an attempt to pay a trigger amount e.g. 0.25 for a 25.00 card with an inactive card having an expected funding value.

The authorization request for the 25 cents comes to the authorization system via one of the universal payment card networks and the authorization system identifies the post authorization notification PAN of the inactive card account recognizes the trigger amount verifies the retailer as an approved member of the RAN prepaid card and uses the information to activate the card account.

An authorization approval is sent back to the POS POP from the authorization system the prepaid card purchaser can leave with an activated and funded card with a full e.g. 25.00 balance. Substantially concurrently the authorization system generates an electronic settlement for the funded value of the prepaid card plus the trigger amount e.g. 25.25 to be debited from for example the merchant s bank settlement account. In some embodiments the settlement occurs for the merchant two or three days later for the trigger and commission amounts via the universal payment network and the authorization system causes the settlement to be paid out via normal procedures.

In a step by step summary of the above a customer purchases and pays for a prepaid card in a first part of transaction. The clerk completing the sale for the merchant rings up the trigger amount in POS system and enters the PAN of the inactive prepaid card into the POS system via card swipe scan of a barcode or manual entry. The authorization system receives the authorization request for the trigger amount sets a status of the particular card to active and sends an authorization approval to the merchant s POS system. The authorization system also generates an electronic settlement file in the amount of the funded value of the prepaid card plus the trigger amount for the newly activated and funded card account and debits the bank account of the corporate client associated with the merchant for the sum of the funded value and trigger amount for the prepaid card. In the course of normal settlement operations the entity associated with the authorization system receives the settlement request for the trigger amount and the authorization service settles the trigger amount with the particular bank card network. A similar process may be applied for mobile contactless virtual wallet and virtual card environments and a wide variety of product types.

Technical effects of the methods systems and computer readable media described herein include at least one of a acquiring with a point of purchase device a first data set associated with a stored value prepaid card the first data set associated with a purchase of the card b acquiring with the point of sale device a second data set associated with the stored value prepaid card the second data set associated with an activation and funding of the card account c transmitting at least a specific transaction amount pre defined for card activation and funding and the second data set from the point of sale device onto a universal payment network d receiving the transmission at an authorization system associated with the second data set e transmitting from the authorization system a transaction approval message to the point of sale the transaction approval message including data relating to a funded value of the stored value prepaid card f transmitting from the authorization system an electronic message causing a payment to be made to the merchant for selling the stored value prepaid card g transmitting from the authorization system an electronic settlement message in the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card plus the specific transaction amount the electronic message operable to debit an account of an entity with which the stored value prepaid card may be redeemed and h settling the amount of the funded value of the stored value prepaid card plus the specific transaction trigger amount with an operator of the authorization system and a universal payment network.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly recited. Furthermore references to one embodiment of the present invention or the exemplary embodiment are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

This written description uses examples to disclose various embodiments which include the best mode to enable any person skilled in the art to practice those embodiments including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

