---

title: Intelligent electrical outlet for collective load control
abstract: Various technologies described herein pertain to an electrical outlet that autonomously manages loads in a microgrid. The electrical outlet can provide autonomous load control in response to variations in electrical power generation supply in the microgrid. The electrical outlet includes a receptacle, a sensor operably coupled to the receptacle, and an actuator configured to selectively actuate the receptacle. The sensor measures electrical parameters at the receptacle. Further, a processor autonomously controls the actuator based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured at the receptacle, electrical parameters from one or more disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid, and a supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at a given time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172245&OS=09172245&RS=09172245
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09172245
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 594 001 filed Feb. 2 2012 and entitled INTELLIGENT ELECTRICAL OUTLET. This application additionally is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 054 filed Sep. 22 2011 and entitled COMPUTING ARCHITECTURE FOR AUTONOMOUS MICROGRIDS which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 419 966 filed Dec. 6 2010 and entitled AGENT BASED INFORMATICS FOR AUTONOMOUS MICROGRIDS. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Recently there has been a push to rethink how electric power is provided to consumers of such power. In conventional approaches relatively large power plants burn fossil fuels to provide electric power to consumers. Typically these power plants are controlled by private entities that bill consumers as a function of an amount of power utilized by the consumers over some period of time. A growing concern with respect to these types of power systems is the pollution that is generated by such systems as well as the centralized nature of such systems. For example if a natural disaster or other unexpected event occurred that caused a power system to be destroyed or temporarily go off line undesirable consequences may occur. For instance millions of people may go months or even years without electric power if one of such conventional power systems is disabled.

In an attempt to reduce carbon emissions and other pollutants caused by these conventional power systems distributed power systems that employ renewable energy to generate electric power have been manufactured and deployed. These types of power systems include but are not limited to wind turbine farms hydro turbines solar panel fields geothermal power systems and the like. While these types of systems offer a promising alternative to the conventional power grid there are some deficiencies corresponding to such systems. For instance these types of systems generally output variable amounts of power over time dependent upon time of day weather conditions etc. thereby rendering it difficult to meet changing demands of consumers.

The increased use of stochastic renewable resources based on wind solar etc. may place pressure on the operational model of the conventional power grid. Various approaches can be used to compensate for variations in renewable generation. For instance these approaches can include increased energy storage fossil fuel backup generation source following controlling loads operation over a larger geographic area or a combination thereof to mitigate a likelihood of occurrence of a significant increase or decrease in power. However difficulties associated with these approaches may intensity as a percentage of generation based on renewable resources increases. Moreover grids over smaller geographic areas may be particularly susceptible to variations in generation as compared to conventional macrogrids.

Various approaches have conventionally been employed on the load side to attempt to deal with variations in generated electricity within a grid. For instance utilities conventionally control power devices such as air conditioners however such control tends to be on a slow time scale usually with manual intervention. By way of another example third party vendors commonly provide demand response contracts whereby they can bid a demand response similar to how generation is bid in the electricity markets responding in hours or fractions thereof. According to another example some home automation architectures are conventionally utilized for home energy management using sensors and actuators with centralized computers to manage home energy usage. Following this example some conventional products strive to implement energy saving architectures. In accordance with an illustration users can program devices to respond to external commands communicated via information technology networks e.g. the devices can be remotely controlled by a pre programmed personal computer or manual commands initiated by a user . According to another illustration some appliance manufacturers have provided products that can respond to external signals. For instance some manufacturers have integrated sensors with actuators in smart UPS devices that for example can turn off printers when a computer is not drawing power.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to an electrical outlet that can autonomously manage loads in a microgrid. The electrical outlet can provide autonomous load control in response to variations in electrical power generation supply in the microgrid. The electrical outlet can include a receptacle a sensor operably coupled to the receptacle and an actuator configured to selectively actuate the receptacle. The sensor can measure electrical parameters at the receptacle. Further a processor can autonomously control the actuator based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured at the receptacle electrical parameters from one or more disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid and a supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at a given time. Moreover it is to be appreciated that the electrical outlet can include a plurality of receptacles sensors operatively coupled to the receptacles and actuators configured to selectively actuate the receptacles.

In accordance with various embodiments the electrical outlet can include a communication module. The communication module can exchange data over a communication network with other electrical outlets using substantially any communication protocol. Such data can be used by each of the electrical outlets for autonomous load control.

According to various embodiments the electrical outlet can monitor output from a source where the source pushes electric power to a bus in the microgrid through the electric outlet. Moreover the electrical outlet can measure a direction of power flow at a receptacle based on the direction of power flow an actuator can selectively actuate or deactuate the receptacle when connected to the source.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to autonomous load management in a microgrid are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

As set forth herein an electrical outlet can autonomously control loads in a smart grid or microgrid environment without a centralized computer. The electrical outlet can include receptacles each with voltage sensing current sensing and actuation. Further the electrical outlet can include a processor for implementing closed loop control. The electrical outlet can also include a communication module which can communicate with other electrical outlets.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a system that includes an electrical outlet that autonomously controls load. The electrical outlet can perform sensing actuation communications and or processing for autonomous load control in response to variations in generation supply. For instance the electrical outlet can perform functions such as load balancing to power availability e.g. supplied at least in part by stochastic renewable resources yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

The electrical outlet includes a plurality of receptacles. More particularly the electrical outlet includes a first receptacle . . . and an Xth receptacle where X can be substantially any integer collectively referred to herein as receptacles . Sources and loads can be coupled with the receptacles . For example the receptacle can receive a plug of a source or a load following this example the source or the load is coupled with the receptacle when the plug is received within the receptacle .

The electrical outlet further includes a plurality of sensors namely a first sensor . . . and an Xth sensor collectively referred to herein as sensors . Moreover the electrical outlet includes a plurality of actuators namely a first actuator . . . and an Xth actuator collectively referred to herein as actuators . The electrical outlet can include substantially any number of receptacles sensors and actuators e.g. X can be substantially any integer . However it is also contemplated that the electrical outlet can include one receptacle e.g. the receptacle one sensor e.g. the sensor and one actuator e.g. the actuator . While it is to be appreciated that the electrical outlet can include substantially any number of receptacles and corresponding sensors and actuators many of the below examples describe electrical outlets that include one or two receptacles hence such examples can be extended to electrical outlets that include differing numbers of receptacles.

The sensor is operably coupled to the receptacle . Moreover the actuator is configured to selectively actuate the receptacle . Similarly the sensor is operably coupled to the receptacle and the actuator is configured to selectively actuate the receptacle . Other receptacle s of the electrical outlet can likewise be operably coupled to corresponding sensor s and such receptacle s can be selectively actuated by corresponding actuator s . The electrical outlet further includes a processor that autonomously controls the actuators to selectively actuate the receptacles .

Further the electrical outlet can include a communication module that can communicate with one or more disparate electrical outlets in a microgrid. The microgrid is a local power grid that comprises a plurality of sources of electric power. Further one or more of the plurality of sources can generate variable amounts of electric power over time. The microgrid can include a bus where the bus is an equipotential bus that is accessible to loads and sources in the microgrid e.g. via electrical outlets . Moreover the communication module can receive information related to a supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at a given time e.g. information related to the supply of the generated electric power on the bus . The communication module can also receive information related to electrical parameters from one or more disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid as well as transmit information related to electrical parameters measured by the sensors . According to an example it is also contemplated that the communication module can transmit data to and or receive data from a collection computer e.g. computer used for data collection and or analysis yet it is to be appreciated that such collection computer need not be employed in the system .

The sensors can measure electrical parameters at the receptacles respectively. More particularly the sensor can measure electrical parameters at the receptacle . . . and the sensor can measure electrical parameters at the receptacle . By way of example the electrical parameters at the receptacles can include voltage data current data reactive power data real power data power factor data or the like. For instance the sensors can measure real and reactive components to power at the receptacles . Additionally or alternatively the electrical parameters at the receptacles can include direction of power flow at such receptacles yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Thus by way of illustration the sensor can measure voltage data current data reactive power data real power data power factor data direction of power flow a combination thereof etc. at the receptacle .

The actuators are configured to selectively connect or disconnect the receptacles respectively from the bus . Thus the actuator is configured to selectively connect or disconnect the receptacle from the bus and so forth. The processor can autonomously control the actuators as a function of the electrical parameters measured by the sensors . Moreover the processor can autonomously control the actuators as a function of the supply of the generated electric power in the microgrid e.g. on the bus at a given time.

According to an example the processor can autonomously control the actuator based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured by the sensor at the receptacle the electrical parameters from the one or more disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid e.g. received via the communication module and the supply of the generated electric power in the microgrid at a given time. Similarly the processor can autonomously control the actuator based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured at the receptacle by the sensor the electrical parameters from the one or more disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid e.g. received via the communication module and the supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at the given time. Further the processor can control the actuators based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured at other receptacles of the electrical outlet e.g. the processor can control the actuator based at least in part on the electrical parameters measured at the receptacle etc. .

A microgrid as the term is used herein can refer to a collection of electric power sources including energized storage devices and electric power loads including de energized storage devices and associated control systems wherein at least some of the electric power sources are independently owned and operated and the electric power loads are likewise independently owned and operated. Additionally a microgrid as the term is used herein has a geographical constraint associated therewith such that for example a microgrid may be confined to one square mile five square miles ten square miles twenty square miles etc. In an ideal scenario the power sources in the microgrid provide sufficient power to supply the needs of the loads in the microgrid. In a microgrid however electric power sources may include power sources that are configured to output variable amounts of electric power over time such as solar panels wind turbines geothermal power plants or the like. Similarly the loads in a microgrid may request varying amounts of electric power at different points in time. Microgrids may also be connected to a bulk power grid to provide power when generators and storage elements are unavailable.

In an exemplary embodiment a microgrid may cover a portion of a city wherein a subset of homeowners business owners etc. in such portion of the city purchase systems that are configured to generate electric power including but not limited to systems that utilize renewable energy to generate electric power such as solar panels micro wind turbines etc. Other homeowners businesses or the like in the microgrid may purchase and operate micro gas turbine generators that are configured to burn natural gas for example to output electric power. The requests for electric power from the loads will vary over time such that more electric power is collectively requested from the loads at certain times of day days of week seasons etc. than others.

According to an example in a microgrid a supply of generated electric power on the bus at a given time can include power generated from storage e.g. batteries . Moreover charging or storing energy e.g. in the batteries can be a load on the bus .

The electrical outlet can be an autonomous load control device. A collective of electrical outlets such as the electrical outlet and the disparate electrical outlets can be described as a load cohort in an agent based architecture for controlling generation load and storage in a microgrid collective as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 054. A function of the load cohort can be to receive information related to the availability of generation and use that information to determine an optimal distribution of load among the members of the cohort that will maintain network stability while satisfying as much of the desired load as possible. In such architecture sources can also be connected to the microgrid from a collection of connection agents.

In accordance with various embodiments the electrical outlet can function as or include an agent as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 054. Additionally or alternatively the electrical outlet can communicate with agents using protocols set forth in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 054. According to an example the electrical outlet can function as a connection agent. By way of another example the electrical outlet can communicate with a connection agent. Yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples e.g. the electrical outlet can function as and or communicate with other types of agents such as a load agent etc. .

As loads are distributed within a microgrid comprised of many individual homes or businesses each electrical outlet can represent a scaling of the controllable loads for each of those homes or businesses. As the architecture extends to larger numbers of homes and businesses use of a distributed architecture such as presented herein can provide various scaling advantages.

The electrical outlet can acquire voltage and current data as a function of time utilizing the sensors . For instance such data acquired by the sensors can include phase angle or power factor data yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Moreover the communication module can transmit such data to other electrical outlets. Further in the electrical outlet actuation of individual channels can be controlled manually and or autonomously. The electrical outlet can implement an autonomous scalable algorithm to adjust load to available generation of electrical power. Further it is contemplated that the electrical outlet can permit manual override functions yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Turning to illustrated is the actuator of the electrical outlet . It is to be appreciated that the remaining actuators of the electrical outlet of other than the actuator can be substantially similar to the actuator described in .

The actuator includes a relay configured to switch the receptacle between an on state and an off state. The relay can be a normally on relay. Accordingly if the electrical outlet malfunctions then the electrical outlet can still be usable in a manual mode. The relay can allow full on and full off actuation with minimal switch resistance.

Moreover the actuator includes a transistor switch e.g. field effect transistor FET circuit configured to control a duty cycle at the receptacle . The transistor switch can control an effective load at the receptacle using pulse width modulation. For example a resistive load value of a load coupled to the receptacle can be reduced incrementally when the transistor switch provides a duty cycle less than 100 using pulse width modulation. The transistor switch can allow a load to be controlled with greater precision as compared to control provided by the relay . According to an example a light can be dimmed using pulse width modulation with the transistor switch . The transistor switch can allow for load duty cycling from 0 100 at a higher switch resistance as compared to the relay .

The relay and the transistor switch can be connected in series or in parallel e.g. between the bus and the sensor of the electrical outlet to control current to the receptacle however substantially any circuit configuration is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. Further the relay and the transistor switch can be controlled by the processor of the electrical outlet .

Moreover each of the receptacles of the electrical outlet can include separate respective relays and transistor switches e.g. similar to the relay and the transistor switch to control currents to the receptacles .

With reference to illustrated is the sensor of the electrical outlet . It is to be appreciated that the remaining sensors of the electrical outlet of other than the sensor can be substantially similar to the sensor described in .

The sensor includes a voltage sensor . The voltage sensor can include a resistive divider that measures voltage at the receptacle of the electrical outlet . The voltage sensor can generate a voltage waveform based on the measured voltage at the receptacle . Moreover the sensor includes a current sensor . The current sensor can include a hall effect sensor that measures current at the receptacle of the electrical outlet . The current sensor can generate a current waveform based on the measured current at the receptacle .

The sensor further includes a processor . The processor can be a measurement integrated circuit IC . The processor can sample the waveforms generated by the voltage sensor and the current sensor . Based on the sampling of the waveforms the processor can derive higher level signals. For example the processor can determine root mean square RMS voltages and currents reactive and real power consumption and so forth.

Thus the sensor e.g. the processor can measure real and reactive power power flow direction and RMS currents and voltages. Further the sensor can measure voltage on a load side of the actuator e.g. the load side of the actuator of the electrical outlet . While real and reactive powers can be measured by the sensor apparent powers can be calculated from either Iand Vor from real and reactive powers measured by the sensor e.g. the processor .

Now referring to illustrated is a system that includes a plurality of electrical outlets that autonomously control loads in a microgrid. depicts three electrical outlets namely an electrical outlet an electrical outlet and an electrical outlet collectively referred to as electrical outlets however it is to be appreciated that the microgrid can include substantially any number of electrical outlets. The electrical outlets can each be substantially similar to the electrical outlet of . Moreover the electrical outlets can each be connected to the bus .

Further the electrical outlets can communicate with each other e.g. employing communication modules such as the communication module of via a communication network . The communication network can be substantially any type of wired or wireless communication network that allows for exchange of data between the electrical outlets . Moreover substantially any type of communication protocol can be utilized for exchanging data over the communication network .

Each of the electrical outlets can broadcast information over the communication network . Moreover the electrical outlets can receive broadcasted information via the communication network . By way of example the electrical outlet can broadcast information over the communication network and such broadcasted information can be received by the electrical outlet and the electrical outlet and so forth.

By way of example the communication network can be an Ethernet based network. Pursuant to an illustration communication modules e.g. the communication module of the electrical outlets can be bridge modules e.g. Ethernet bridge modules . Further respective Internet Protocol IP addresses can be assigned to the electrical outlets . Data can be exchanged over such communication network using User Datagram Protocol UDP packets for example. Yet it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing.

In accordance with other examples the communication network can be a power line communication PLC based network or a wireless communication based network. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Loads and or sources can be connected to the electrical outlets e.g. connected to receptacles of the electrical outlets . In the example depicted in a source is connected to the electrical outlet a source and a load are connected to the electrical outlet and a load and a load are connected to the electrical outlet . It is to be appreciated however that is presented for illustration purposes and the claimed subject matter is not limited to such example.

The source and the source can generate electric power and push such electric power to the bus . Moreover the load the load and the load can pull electrical power from the bus e.g. when receptacles to which such loads are respectively connected are actuated . The electrical outlets can sense electrical parameters e.g. at receptacles associated with the sources and or loads respectively connected thereto exchange information related to the sensed electrical parameters over the communication network and selectively actuate receptacles to which the sources and or loads are connected.

With reference to illustrated is a system that includes the electrical outlet of and the bus e.g. the system includes a portion of the system of . Moreover similar to the electrical outlet of the electrical outlet includes a receptacle a receptacle a sensor a sensor an actuator an actuator a processor and a communication module . As noted above the load and the load are connected to the electrical outlet . More particularly the load is connected to the receptacle and the load is connected to the receptacle of the electrical outlet .

The sensors can measure the loads . For instance if the loads are turned on the sensors can respectively measure electrical parameters associated with the loads at the respective receptacles to which such loads are connected. Alternatively if the load or the load is presently turned off at a particular time such load can momentarily be turned on to enable measurement by the respective sensors . A length of time for turning on such load may vary. For instance the length of time can be dependent upon the type of load an amount of time to actuate a relay e.g. included in the actuators measurement IC latency etc. According to an example a length of time for turning on a load may be on the order of 100 ms yet it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

It is contemplated that substantially any type of load can be connected to the electrical outlet e.g. the load and the load can be substantially any load type s . Examples of the load types include always on always off or controllable. Always on loads are referred to herein as non controllable loads. A type of load connected to each of the receptacles of the electrical outlet can be preset for instance it is to be appreciated that the type of load can be preset in substantially any manner. Moreover the load type of each of the loads can be detected by the electrical outlet determined based on user input or the like. By way of illustration an always on load can be a load associated with supplying oxygen to a patient whereas a controllable load may be a load associated with running an air conditioner in a house. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing illustration.

Receptacles of the electrical outlet can be designated as being connected to either an always on load or a controllable load. According to an example the load can be an always on load and the load can be a controllable load. Following this example the receptacle can be designated as being connected to an always on load while the receptacle can be designated as being connected to a controllable load.

The processor can utilize various algorithms to implement cooperative controlling of loads. More particularly the processor can control the actuators such that always on loads are powered independently of available power. Moreover the processor can control the actuators such that after always on loads are satisfied the remaining available power can be split among the controllable loads.

To effectuate cooperative controlling of loads each electrical outlet e.g. the electrical outlets of etc. can communicate a sum of its always on loads and a sum of its total loads within the microgrid. For instance the communication module can broadcast a total load value for the electrical outlet and a total always on load value for the electrical outlet . The total load value can be a sum of controllable and non controllable loads on the electrical outlet e.g. sum of the load and the load . The always on load value can be a sum of non controllable loads on the electrical outlet e.g. the load in the above example where the load is an always on load and the load is a controllable load . Moreover the communication module can receive respective total load values and respective total always on load values broadcasted from each of the other disparate electrical outlets in the microgrid e.g. from the electrical outlet and the electrical outlet of etc. . Each of the respective total load values can be a sum of controllable and non controllable loads on a corresponding disparate electrical outlet. Further each of the respective total always on load values can be a sum of non controllable loads on the corresponding disparate electrical outlet.

The processor can control the actuators as a function of a first sum of the respective total load values received from the disparate electrical outlet s and a total load value for the electrical outlet a second sum of the respective total always on load values received from the disparate electrical outlet s and a total always on load value for the electrical outlet the total load value for the electrical outlet the total always on load value for the electrical outlet and the supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at the given time e.g. on the bus .

According to an example apparent power can be utilized in the foregoing algorithm. By way of another example the foregoing algorithm can be based on reactive power differences in the loads.

Moreover it is contemplated that the algorithm set forth above is an example implementation for controlling loads and other implementations for controlling loads are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. By way of illustration another implementation can utilize intelligent agents as provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 054 yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Again it is noted that electrical outlets e.g. the electrical outlets of can each broadcast two quantities namely a total load value and a total always on load value. Such values may change in infrequently. Electrical outlets can acquire these values from other electrical outlets e.g. directly or indirectly via the communication network of and sum such values. The foregoing algorithm can be scalable in that the calculation is dependent on the values for a given electrical outlet as well as global sums of the values.

Turning to illustrated is a system that includes the electrical outlet of and the bus e.g. the system includes a portion of the system of . Similar to the electrical outlet of the electrical outlet includes a receptacle a sensor an actuator a processor and a communication module . As noted above the source is connected to the electrical outlet . More particularly the source is connected to the receptacle of the electrical outlet .

The sensor of the electrical outlet can measure a direction of power flow at the receptacle . For example based on the measured direction of power flow at the receptacle the actuator can selectively actuate or deactuate the receptacle . More particularly the actuator can deactuate the receptacle when the sensor detects that the direction of power flow at the receptacle changes from flowing into the receptacle from the source to flowing out of the receptacle to the source . Thus the source can be turned off e.g. the receptacle can be deactuated when power flow is determined to flow out from the receptacle to the source since under such conditions the source is not supplying current and instead acts as a load.

According to an example the source can be a photovoltaic PV inverter. Accordingly the sensor can measure an output from the PV inverter coupled to the receptacle . The electrical outlet can act as a monitor for available current generated by the PV inverter. Output from the PV inverter measured using the electrical outlet can be communicated to disparate electrical outlets via the communication module . Accordingly electrical outlets can receive such information from other electrical outlets that monitor current generated by sources such as the PV inverter. It is to be appreciated however that other types of sources other than or in addition to PV inverters are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Again reference is made to . According to an example the electrical outlet can receive information related to generated electric power communicated by the electrical outlet connected to the source and information related to generated electric power communicated by the electrical outlet connected to the source . Such information can be summed to determine the supply of generated electric power in the microgrid at the given time.

According to an example to mitigate sending information over either a large geographic extent or sending a large quantity of information due to large numbers of controllable elements a transmission agent can be introduced at boundaries between adjacent microgrids. According to another example communication gateways can be used to aggregate information from electrical outlets and can transmit that information to other microgrids. Received information can be farmed out to individual elements. In this manner each electrical outlet can receive information from n 1 outlets in its microgrid where n is a number of electrical outlets in the microgrid and m 1 elements as an aggregate from other electrical outlets where m is a number of electrical outlets in other microgrid s . It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples.

Moreover the acts described herein may be computer executable instructions that can be implemented by one or more processors and or stored on a computer readable medium or media. The computer executable instructions can include a routine a sub routine programs a thread of execution and or the like. Still further results of acts of the methodology can be stored in a computer readable medium displayed on a display device and or the like.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system that measures electrical parameters at receptacle s in an electrical outlet selectively actuates the receptacle s and or exchanges information between electrical outlets in a microgrid. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The memory may be or include RAM ROM EEPROM Flash memory or other suitable memory. The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store measured electrical parameters electric power supply information information related to load s connected to receptacle s and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may be or include any suitable computer readable storage including a hard disk memory etc. The data store may include executable instructions measured electrical parameters electric power supply information information related to load s connected to receptacle s etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

