---

title: Galaxy views for visualizing large numbers of nodes
abstract: A system and method for illustrating data. An example method includes organizing the data into objects; assigning a transparency value to each object; and graphically depicting the data by distributing nodes representing the objects in a region of a visualization in accordance with a distribution method or function. Each node is displayed as partially transparent in accordance with the transparency value. In a more specific embodiment, the visualization includes a galaxy visualization with nodes that are randomly or pseudo randomly distributed about a center point or region of the visualization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105118&OS=09105118&RS=09105118
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09105118
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121222
---
This application is related to the following application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 761 614 entitled VISUAL DATA ANALYSIS FOR LARGE DATA SETS filed on Feb. 7 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full in this specification 

The present application relates to software and more specifically to user interface designs and methods for graphically displaying and interacting with data and or concepts.

Software for facilitating information visualization is employed in various demanding applications including enterprise resource planning scientific research digital libraries data mining financial data analysis market studies manufacturing production control drug discovery and so on. Such applications often demand space efficient illustrative visualizations for clearly illustrating data and accompanying characteristics patterns and interrelationships.

Space efficient and illustrative visualizations are particularly important for depicting large data sets which may include thousands of nodes. Conventionally visualizations such as pie charts bar charts line graphs and so on used to depict large data sets exhibit design limitations that necessitate summarizing or grouping the data into aggregated sections or nodes such as bars of a bar chart.

However important information and patterns may be contained in hidden granular data represented by an aggregated node. Accordingly functionality for drilling into aggregated nodes to reveal constituent data is often implemented. However drilling operations can be relatively inefficient and time consuming. Furthermore drilling into an aggregated node to illustrate more detailed or granular data may not readily reveal potentially important patterns or differences between granular data of adjacent aggregated nodes.

Hence conventional visualizations and accompanying methods typically lack efficient mechanisms for graphically depicting granular information for large data sets.

An example method for illustrating data includes accessing data organizing the data into objects associating a transparency value with each object and graphically depicting the data by distributing representations of the objects called nodes in a region of a visualization in accordance with a distribution function. Each node appears partially transparent to a degree specified by the transparency value.

In a more specific embodiment the visualization includes a galaxy visualization characterized by nodes positioned about a center point or region of the galaxy visualization. Polar coordinates are used by the distribution function to characterize positions of one or more nodes of the galaxy visualization. Accordingly each position of a node is characterized by a radial coordinate and an angular coordinate.

In an illustrative embodiment the method further includes encoding a variable corresponding to a radial coordinate of a node with a first attribute characterizing the data. The first attribute may include for example a position level in an enterprise organizational hierarchy such that a first node characterized by higher position in the hierarchy than a second node is positioned closer to the center point of the galaxy visualization than the second node.

The method may further include encoding a variable corresponding to an angular coordinate of a node with a second attribute characterizing the data. The second attribute may include for example a category of a node. For example nodes corresponding to enterprise personnel may be categorized by enterprise department. In this embodiment one or more nodes of a first category are distributed in a first sector of the galaxy visualization and one or more nodes of a second category are distributed in a second sector of the galaxy visualization.

The method may further include providing a user option to adjust the transparency value. The transparency of each node is adjusted according to the adjusted transparency value. Nodes may be further visually encoded in accordance with a third attribute. The visual encoding may include adjusting a size of a node based on the third attribute. The first second and or third attributes may be similar thereby resulting in redundant encoding for visual emphasis. Additional attributes may be encoded by adjusting node shape outline transparency and so on.

The method may further include providing a user option to filter the data in accordance with a filtering criterion thereby selectively changing the number of displayed nodes. Furthermore categorized nodes may be randomly or pseudo randomly distributed in rings sectors or other regions of a visualization. Node positioning may be randomized based on radial coordinate values and or angular coordinate values associated with node positions. User options for adjusting ring separation are also provided.

Hence certain embodiments discussed herein facilitate efficiently illustrating data characterized by thousands of objects in part by employing partially transparent nodes which are distributed about a center point a galaxy visualization to graphically depict the objects. Accordingly when nodes overlap quantity information and density information may remain visible whereas conventionally overlapping opaque nodes typically conceal visual information pertaining to underlying nodes.

Furthermore distributing the nodes in the galaxy visualization such as via a randomization algorithm may yield particularly illustrative visualizations that may reveal previously unseen data patterns and information. Options for encoding additional information e.g. via node color shape size outline positioning and so on may further facilitate accentuating patterns relationships and other information which may have otherwise been hidden among granular data of large data sets.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of particular embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference of the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

For the purposes of the present discussion information visualization may be any process involving graphically representing data according to a method or scheme. A graphical representation of data resulting from an information visualization technique is called a visualization. Example visualizations include pie charts treemaps bar charts line graphs and so on.

A galaxy visualization also simply called a galaxy herein may be any visualization that is characterized by data points nodes or other graphical representations of objects or data that are distributed in a region about a point or other reference location or region. In various example embodiments discussed herein the data is distributed in polar coordinates about a central location called the center point or pole of the visualization via a random variable such as a Gaussian Random Variable GRV . Accordingly data positioning may be based on a randomized or partially randomized angle relative to an arbitrary polar axis extending from a center point of the galaxy visualization and or a randomized or partially randomized distance corresponding to a radial coordinate from the galaxy visualization center point.

An object such as a data object may be any grouping of or encapsulation of data and or functionality. Examples of objects include classes or structures implemented via object oriented programming languages tables rows columns fields or records of a database and so on. An object may include a single item or instance of data such as a number or other descriptor or attribute or the object may include plural instances of data and or functionality e.g. software methods such as functions or function calls and may further include sub objects.

A representation of an object i.e. a displayed object may be displayed via graphical depiction such as a node of a visualization a menu item dialog box personnel icon and so on. The graphical depiction of an object may also be called an object a displayed object or a node.

Generally a node may be any graphical representation of an object in a visualization. Note that certain nodes may include sub nodes just as an object may include or represent additional objects i.e. sub objects.

For clarity certain well known components such as hard drives processors operating systems power supplies routers Internet Service Providers ISPs and so on have been omitted from the figures. However those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings will know which components to implement and how to implement them to meet the needs of a given implementation.

The example system includes a mobile computing device in communication with an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP server system via a network such as the Internet. The ERP system includes various databases which store database objects .

Server side software such as web services Application Programming Interfaces APIs and so on may communicate with the database objects to selectively employ data thereby such as to facilitate implementation of various software applications which may include server side and client side software applications. Generally server side implementations involve running applications on the ERP server in response to a request from a client such as the mobile computing device . The server side application may then send data and or instructions back to the client device . In client side implementations software may be downloaded to the mobile computing device and executed locally on the device .

The example ERP server system includes an administrator user interface which may include hardware and software functionality for enabling an administrator to make changes to various components of the ERP server system such a settings installed software and so on.

The mobile computing device represents an example client device that communicates with server side galaxy visualization software . Note that client devices other than mobile computing devices may be employed without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

The mobile computing device employs a relatively small touch screen in communication with Graphical User Interface GUI software which is adapted to facilitate displaying one or more galaxy visualizations via the touch screen . The GUI software may be any software application or component such as a spread sheet program graphing software and so on that is adapted to facilitate displaying graphical user interface features and or data such as graphs menu items dialog boxes and so on.

The example GUI software includes a controller in communication with a galaxy generator a galaxy actions module and a galaxy operations module . The controller includes computer code for coordinating inputs and outputs to and from the modules and interfacing the GUI software and accompanying modules with the server side galaxy visualization software .

In an example operative scenario a user employs the mobile computing device to browse to a website hosted by the ERP server system which provides access to the server side galaxy visualization software and accompanying database objects . The controller may facilitate downloading database objects from the ERP server system and server side galaxy visualization software for use in constructing a galaxy visualization to be displayed via the touch screen .

In the present example operative scenario the GUI software selectively downloads database objects from the ERP server system . The galaxy generator then employs client side galaxy generating software to construct one or more galaxy visualizations in accordance with instructions included in the controller and input from the touch screen .

Initial or default methods and algorithms for distributing the nodes in a visualization e.g. randomizing galaxy node positions determining node transparency and for encoding any data attributes e.g. attributes of the database objects via node characteristics e.g. node size color shape and so on may be initially determined by the GUI software .

The controller may facilitate implementing GUI components and user interface controls to provide user options to adjust galaxy attribute encoding as discussed more fully below. Alternatively or in addition galaxy attributes i.e. attributes of data used to generate a galaxy visualization are automatically encoded such as in accordance with space constraints inherent in a display numbers of nodes to be illustrated and so on.

For the purposes of the present discussion an attribute of a visualization node or associated data may be any characteristic of data used to generate a visualization where the characteristic may be employed to group or otherwise organize or visually distinguish the data by adjusting features or characteristics of the visualization. Examples of attributes include data dimensions or layers such as specified by table headers of tables used to store the data used for a visualization.

Visual encoding also simply called encoding or coding herein of a data attribute may be any process involving representing the data attribute graphically. For example if a hierarchical position of a node in an enterprise organizational chart is used to adjust a size shape color or position etc. of the node in a visualization the hierarchical position is said to be visually encoded via the node size shape color or position respectively.

For the purposes of the present discussion a user interface control may be any displayed element or component of a user interface display screen which is adapted to enable a user to provide input view data and or otherwise interact with a user interface. Additional examples of user interface controls include buttons drop down menus menu items tap and hold functionality and so on. Similarly a user interface control signal may be any signal that is provided as input for software wherein the input affects a user interface display screen and or accompanying software application associated with the software.

Touch input may be any input such as input via a gesture provided to a computing device via a touch sensitive display. A gesture may be any movement that involves motion to trigger a signal to control or otherwise affect a user interface display screen.

Key functionality for adjusting displayed characteristics of a galaxy visualization may be included in various functions e.g. a SetTransparency and Randomize function of the server side galaxy visualization software API . The functions may be called remotely via the galaxy generator and controller as needed in response to certain user input or automatically in accordance with instructions included in the controller . Alternatively the functions may be downloaded to the mobile computing device and run client side.

The Randomize function of the server side galaxy software may employ a software random number generator to implement a distribution function or method to distribute nodes in a galaxy visualization such as the galaxy visualization or portion thereof. A position of a node may be randomized by using a random number generator to facilitate generating random numbers subject to certain range constraints for use as radial coordinates or angular coordinates of a node position which is specified via polar coordinates.

A random number generator may employ a software representation of a random variable such as a Gaussian Poisson Uniform Bernoulli Binomial or other random or pseudorandom variable to generate approximately random numbers as output. A pseudorandom variable may output pseudorandom numbers which are not purely random. Those skilled in the art may readily determine and implement algorithms to implement sufficiently random number outputs to distribute nodes to meet the needs of a given implementation without undue experimentation and without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

The Randomize function is said to implement a distribution function or portion thereof. For the purposes of the present discussion a distribution function may be any equation formula rule algorithm or method used to spread or distribute data or data representations linearly spatially or volumetrically.

Certain embodiments discussed herein employ a random or pseudo random distribution function to randomly distribute data in one or more rings of a galaxy visualization. Such distribution of nodes is called node position randomization herein. As suggested above such a distribution function may employ a random or pseudorandom variable to distribute data within a predetermined region of a galaxy visualization. A collection of nodes whose positions are specified via polar coordinates or spherical coordinates are said to be randomly distributed in a galaxy visualization if a random viable or pseudo random variable is used to determine or otherwise affect node positioning.

In certain implementations one or more node position coordinates are randomized. In cases where one node coordinate e.g. a radial coordinate or angular coordinate is randomized the remaining coordinate may be encoded with information characterizing the data. In these cases the node positioning is still said to be randomized.

Furthermore in certain cases a radial coordinate of a set of nodes may be limited between an upper limit and a lower limit e.g. corresponding to an inner ring boundary and an outer ring boundary respectively. A random variable may then be employed to distribute the set of nodes randomly within the radial coordinate range.

Similarly in certain implementations an angular coordinate of a set of nodes may be limited by upper and lower limits e.g. corresponding to opposing edges of a sector. A random variable may be employed to adjust the angular coordinate and radial coordinate to randomly distribute the nodes within the region defined by the sector boundaries.

In practice a software random number generator such as represented via the Randomize function may be employed to determine random values within a given range to facilitate randomizing node positioning subject to the range constraints. Note that use of random number generators may result in pseudorandom distributions since random number generator output is typically not completely random.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that distribution methods other than randomization may be employed without departing from the scope of the present teachings. For example in certain implementations nodes may be evenly distributed within a ring or sector whereas other nodes or sectors of the same galaxy visualization may be characterized by different distributions without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

The exact type and details of the distribution algorithms used to distributed nodes within a given region of a galaxy visualization may vary among visualizations and within a given visualization without departing from the scope of the present teachings. For example variations in distribution methods applied within different regions of a given galaxy visualization may be employed to encode additional information not already encoded in characteristics of the galaxy visualization or redundant information. For example in certain galaxy visualizations used to display enterprise organizational hierarchy information nodes corresponding to enterprise management personnel may be evenly distributed in one or more central rings whereas the remaining enterprise personal may be randomly distributed in an outer ring of the galaxy visualization.

Note that while the example GUI software is shown included in the mobile computing device implementations are not limited thereto. For example the GUI software may be incorporated into the server side galaxy visualization software and run on the server as a server side application. The server side application may be run server side and viewed client side via browser software running on the mobile computing device .

In the present example embodiment various GUI modules include computer code for implementing functionality for adjusting how a galaxy visualization is displayed via the touch screen . Example galaxy operations which may be implemented in part via the galaxy operations module include adjusting attribute encoding adjusting ring spacing performing filtering operations adjusting transparency and so on. Example galaxy actions include triggering display of additional details of a data object represented via a node of the galaxy visualization in response to certain user input such as a tap gesture applied to a displayed ring or node and so on as discussed more fully below with reference to .

For the purposes of the present discussion a slider user interface control may be any user interface control with a graphic that can be positioned or moved to change values or factors corresponding to positions of the graphic. A slider bar may be any movable graphic of a slider user interface control.

Currently the node transparency slider which may also be called an opacity slider is set at approximately 30 which may correspond to an alpha value of 0.3 when alpha composting methods are employed to set transparency. The 30 setting specifies that nodes are approximately 30 opaque where a setting of 0 would result in completely transparent nodes and where a setting of 100 would result in completely opaque nodes.

Note that where multiple nodes overlap the overlapping region becomes progressively darker as more nodes overlap each other. Accordingly a center of the visualization appears darker since more nodes overlap near the center of the visualization . More nodes overlap near the center of the visualization since in the present example embodiment node positions have been distributed pseudo randomly by randomizing both the node radial position coordinate and the node angular position coordinate for each node.

Since less area exists near the center of the visualization to accommodate nodes some nodes overlap near the center of the visualization . Note that in certain implementations where few nodes are displayed and nominal node size is relatively small relative to a maximum radial value set for a visualization overlap may not necessarily occur near the center point of the visualization.

Nevertheless the degree to which the overlap between nodes varies from the center of a galaxy visualization may facilitate visually illustrating and enabling effective comparisons between quantities of nodes illustrated by such galaxy visualizations as discussed more fully below with reference to and . Furthermore such variation in node density with radial distance from the center of a galaxy visualization may facilitate enabling viewers to ascertain quantity information from very large data sets even when employing very small galaxy visualizations as discussed more fully below with reference to .

A drop down menu may appear in response to a gesture such as a tap and hold gesture applied to a region of the touch screen of coinciding with the galaxy visualization . The drop down menu includes various user options for modifying the galaxy visualization . Example user options include a user option to implement filtering operations user options to encode node attributes a user option to set galaxy visualization ring parameters user options to switch between types of displayed galaxy visualizations a user option to zoom in or out on the galaxy visualization and a user option to change adjust or configure source data used to generate the galaxy visualization .

Examples of user options to encode node attributes of the galaxy visualization include an option to adjust node shape based on a specified shape criteria a user option to adjust node outline appearance based on a specified outline criteria a user option to adjust node radial position from a galaxy visualization center point based on a specified radial criteria a user option to adjust node size based on a specified node size criteria and a user option to adjust node color or other visual characteristics e.g. node shading based on a specified node color criteria. Specifying the criteria for the various user options effectively involves encoding data attributes based on node size color outline appearance etc.

Examples of user options for switching between types of displayed galaxy visualizations include a user option to display a two dimensional galaxy visualization a user option to display a three dimensional galaxy visualization and a user option to display multiple galaxy visualizations. Note that a three dimensional galaxy visualization may be constructed similarly to a two dimensional galaxy visualization but spherical coordinates are employed to distribute nodes in the three dimensional visualization and additional user interface controls may enable rotating the three dimensional visualization.

In general upon user selection of a user option from the drop down menu an additional dialog box or user interface display screen may appear with additional user interface controls and input fields and mechanisms to enable users to set criteria choose additional options and so on. For example if a user selects a user option to display multiple galaxy visualizations an additional user interface display screen may appear with options to specify data categories or source data to be used to generate each displayed visualization.

Note that implementations that provide additional user options other than those shown in the drop down menu are possible. For example in certain implementations it may be possible to select a ring of a galaxy visualization as discussed more fully below to activate a menu with a user option to create a new galaxy visualization based on nodes included in the selected ring.

A first galaxy visualization depicts 10 000 nodes randomly distributed about a center point of the galaxy visualization where both radial and angular position coordinates of each node are randomized. The radial position coordinates are randomized between 0 and a maximum predetermined radius established for the galaxy visualization. Angular position coordinates are randomized between 0 degrees and 360 degrees. In the present specific embodiment polar coordinates of a node identify a position of a centroid of the node.

A second galaxy visualization illustrates 20 000 nodes. A third galaxy visualization illustrates 30 000 nodes and a fourth galaxy visualization illustrates 60 000 nodes. Simultaneous display of the multiple visualizations may be initiated after a user has chosen a Multiple option from the drop down menu illustrated in and after a user has specified related configuration information e.g. via a subsequently displayed configuration screen indicating parameters for displaying multiple visualizations including indicating the number of galaxy visualizations to display and source data to be used to generate each galaxy visualization.

Note that with the current node transparency settings 30 specified via the slider the fourth galaxy visualization has become substantially dark due to substantial numbers of overlapping nodes. Nevertheless differences in node quantities occurring between each of the galaxy visualizations are clearly visually distinguishable.

If for example with the current transparency settings each of the galaxy visualizations were used to display between 100 000 and 600 000 nodes then the galaxy visualizations could appear virtually indistinguishable. However such visualizations could be made distinguishable by a simple transparency adjustment via the node transparency slider i.e. by making individual nodes more transparent.

Adjustments to node transparencies may be implemented via various implementation specific methods and may vary without departing from the scope of the present teachings. In the present specific embodiment node transparency adjustments are implemented via alpha compositing which involves selectively combining an image of a node with background information to create the appearance of partial or full transparency. The background information may include information pertaining to the numbers of nodes overlapping at a given position of the user interface display screen .

Increasing node transparency e.g. by adjusting the slider to the left is shown with reference to to affect appearance of variations in node density with radial distance from center points of each galaxy visualization . In particular note that the less opaque visualization of more clearly illustrates node density variation with distance from a center point of the galaxy visualization as compared to the substantially opaque galaxy visualization of . Accordingly by enabling adjustments to node transparency arbitrarily large numbers of nodes may be illustrated in a given galaxy visualization while still illustrating node quantity information associated therewith.

For the purposes of the present discussion a hierarchy visualization may be any visualization that is adapted to illustrate a hierarchy or hierarchal relationship between data or data objects. A hierarchy may be any ordering of or arrangement of data where different data in the arrangement may exhibit superior or subordinate relationships with other data. A hierarchy may refer to a displayed representation of data objects or may refer to data and accompanying relationships existing irrespective of the representation. For example an enterprise hierarchy e.g. which may be displayed via an organizational chart also called org chart may be any power structure position structure or reporting structure characterizing an enterprise.

Nodes of the visualization are both color coded and radially coded to illustrate enterprise hierarchy information. Hierarchy information is said to represent a node attribute that is redundantly encoded via two node characteristics namely node radial distance from a center point or region of a galaxy visualization i.e. radial coordinate and node color. Redundant encoding of an attribute via different node characteristics may enhance or emphasize appearance of the attribute information in a galaxy visualization.

In the present specific embodiment nodes of the visualization represent or correspond to enterprise personnel. Nodes of the visualization are organized such that nodes corresponding to higher level personnel e.g. management personnel are positioned closer to the center point of the visualization and lower level personnel are positioned further from the center point based on organizational hierarchy levels. Each organizational hierarchy level is assigned a different color such that nodes associated with enterprise personnel at different hierarchy levels exhibit different corresponding colors.

Hence nodes near the center of the visualization represent upper level management personnel which exhibit a different color than nodes enterprise personnel of other levels. For example in the galaxy visualization a central node may be colored red and may correspond to a Chief Executive Officer CEO or president whereas outer nodes may be colored a different color such as violet and may represent the lowest level enterprise employees of the visualization . Note that variations in node appearance other than color may be employed to encode information i.e. attributes pertaining to underlying data. For example variations in node shading cross hatching shapes outlines and so on may be employed to implement visual encoding of data attributes.

Galaxy visualizations can be particularly effective at displaying hierarchal information. Hierarchies often contain fewer nodes at upper hierarchy levels which may be displayed near a center region of a galaxy visualization where less space for displaying non overlapping nodes exists. Any additional space that may exist near a center of a galaxy visualization may be utilized e.g. by increasing node sizes in accordance with hierarchy levels thereby further applying additional redundant encoding to enhance visual emphasis of hierarchy information illustrated via the galaxy visualization as discussed more fully below with reference to .

The galaxy visualization may represent an entire enterprise hierarchy or a hierarchy of a particular division location or region. Note that implementations are not limited to displaying hierarchy information such as enterprise hierarchy information. In general any data set that can be separated into different objects e.g. data elements corresponding to nodes which can be illustrated via a galaxy visualization in accordance with the present teachings without departing from the scope thereof.

For the purposes of the present discussion a ring may be any band that subtends a predetermined angle about a central point or region. A fully closed ring subtends a 360 degree angle. A sector may be any portion of a ring. Hence a sector may be a particular type of ring which may subtend an angle less than 360 degrees. In a special case where a closed ring comprises a single sector the sector represents a fully closed ring. A ring need not necessarily be hollow. For example an inner ring may be a solid circle or other shape. Similarly a ring need not necessarily have a circular outline. For example ovals or other form factors are possible.

The width of each ring and the spacing between rings may be user selectable e.g. via one or more user options chosen from the drop down menu of . For example user selection of a Set Ring Parameters user option from the drop down menu of may result in display of a ring separation slider which is user adjustable to change ring separation. Note that additional mechanisms for adjusting additional ring or galaxy visualization parameters may be provided such as a user option to adjust an outer radius boundary of a galaxy visualization and a user option to adjust ring width.

Alternatively galaxy visualization maximum size and or individual ring width may be automatically set via an implementation specific algorithm based on node density within a given ring and or based on other factors such as attribute encoding and so on. For example certain galaxy visualization data attributes may be encoded in ring width and or ring separation without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

Node positioning within a given ring is distributed e.g. randomized by applying a distribution function to a radial coordinate subject to range constraints corresponding to an inner ring boundary and an outer ring boundary and by applying a distribution function to an angular coordinate. Note that the boundaries of a central ring may be made sufficiently narrow to cause the center node e.g. corresponding to a CEO to be approximately centered at the center point of the galaxy visualization .

The filtering legend may appear in response to user selection of a filter option from the drop down menu of . In the present specific embodiment a user has selected to display all management level personnel by selecting management levels M M in the filtering legend .

During the second filtering operation a user has employed the filtering legend to display only nodes corresponding to non management level personnel in the visualization . Since node size was used to encode hierarchy information non manager nodes appear relatively small and are spatially well dispersed. Accordingly a user has employed the transparency slider to increase node opacity e.g. to 60 to enhance the appearance of individual nodes in the galaxy visualization .

Employing sectors to implement attribute encoding may facilitate visually distinguishing and comparing internal structures of organizations. Note that in certain implementations the hardware organization and the software organization are displayed separately in adjacent galaxy visualizations. Furthermore additional user interface controls may enable users to convert a sectored galaxy visualization into multiple galaxy visualizations corresponding to each sector and or for converting one or more rings to different sectors or different galaxy visualizations.

Note that while the present example embodiment illustrates use of sectors that include several rings other implementations are possible. For example each ring may itself be divided into several sub sectors such that the resulting galaxy visualization would implement a type of sunburst visualization.

Note that certain embodiments may be implemented by randomizing or otherwise distributing nodes in different sections of a sunburst visualization. Furthermore additional user options may enable performing pivoting sorting and filtering operations on visualization compartments or regions of certain embodiments discussed herein. Sunburst visualizations and accompanying examples of operations that may be performed thereon and which may be used to implement various alternative embodiments are discussed more fully in the above identified U.S. Patent Application application Ser. No. 13 048 781 entitled VISUALIZATION AND INTERACTION WITH FINANCIAL DATA USING SUNBURST VISUALIZATION which is incorporated by herein by reference.

Accordingly galaxy visualizations as discussed herein may facilitate conveying data organizational information quantity information and so on for thousands of nodes even when the galaxy visualizations are made relatively small. Furthermore displaying plural galaxy visualizations in a similar user interface display screen may facilitate juxtaposing such information.

A second step includes associating a transparency value with each object. Transparency values may be established globally for all nodes of a galaxy visualization e.g. via use of a transparency slider. Alternatively transparency values may be adjusted to encode information pertaining to a particular data attribute such as a data category.

A third step includes distributing graphical depictions of the objects i.e. nodes a region of a visualization in accordance with a random or pseudo random distribution function. Each node is characterized by the associated transparency value established in the second step .

A fourth step includes characterizing positions of one or more nodes of the visualization via polar coordinates and encoding a variable corresponding to a radial coordinate of a node with a first attribute e.g. enterprise hierarchy level characterizing the data.

Although the description has been described with respect to particular embodiments thereof these particular embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive. For example while various embodiments discussed herein are used to visualize data sets characterized by thousands of nodes embodiments are not limited thereto. Various visualization techniques disclosed herein may be employed to illustrate and provide insight into data characterized by fewer nodes without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines of particular embodiments including C C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different particular embodiments. In some particular embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a computer readable storage medium for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. Particular embodiments can be implemented in the form of control logic in software or hardware or a combination of both. The control logic when executed by one or more processors may be operable to perform that which is described in particular embodiments.

Particular embodiments may be implemented by using a programmed general purpose digital computer by using application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays optical chemical biological quantum or nanoengineered systems components and mechanisms may be used. In general the functions of particular embodiments can be achieved by any means as is known in the art. Distributed networked systems components and or circuits can be used. Communication or transfer of data may be wired wireless or by any other means.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. It is also within the spirit and scope to implement a program or code that can be stored in a machine readable medium to permit a computer to perform any of the methods described above.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the includes plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Thus while particular embodiments have been described herein latitudes of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of particular embodiments will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit.

