---

title: Method and system for providing location services
abstract: A computer-implemented method including executing instructions stored on a computer-readable medium is provided. The method includes receiving a request for location services from a user, the request including one or more request parameters. The method also includes formatting the request as a single uniform resource locator (URL) string including the one or more request parameters and transmitting the formatted request to a first of a plurality of geolocation service providers. The method also includes receiving from the first of a plurality of geolocation service providers one or more geographic coordinates related to the request and the one or more request parameters. The method includes outputting the one or more geographic coordinates to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031579&OS=09031579&RS=09031579
owner: MasterCard International Incorporated
number: 09031579
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
The field of the invention relates generally to providing location based information through an open application programming interface API and more specifically to network based methods and systems for providing details of products and services available near or at a particular location through an open API architecture.

Service provider companies provide a variety of services to numerous consumers. These service provider companies utilize computer systems to provide these services. For example in the cartographic industry mapping companies develop maps of certain cities states or nations and update those maps periodically. These companies provide certain maps and map data e.g. distances elevations points of interest to consumers navigation companies and other companies in various industries. Oftentimes these service provider companies provide services that include receiving processing and storing proprietary data in computer systems managed by the service provider companies. In many cases access to this proprietary data is restricted to certain approved users. Restricting access to such proprietary data provides at least some protection for the data. However it also limits the potential uses of the data.

Software developers are able to develop computer programs sometimes called applications configured to utilize data such as the data stored within computer systems used by certain service provider companies. Accordingly in order for these computer programs to use such data the programs must be able to access the data. One way to access the data stored by these service provider companies is through an open application programming interface API .

By allowing software developers to access data stored within computer systems used by these service provider companies the service provider companies are able to leverage these developer applications as well as increase their transaction volume. Thus by providing this data access to developers these service provider companies are able to provide additional services to both existing and new customers which in turn improves the profitability of these companies.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method including executing instructions stored on a computer readable medium is provided. The method includes receiving a request for location services from a user the request including one or more request parameters. The method also includes formatting the request as a single uniform resource locator URL string including the one or more request parameters and transmitting the formatted request to a first of a plurality of geolocation service providers. The method also includes receiving from the first of a plurality of geolocation service providers one or more geographic coordinates related to the request and the one or more request parameters. The method includes outputting the one or more geographic coordinates to the user.

In another embodiment a system for displaying a location of a physical resource is provided. The system includes a first application programming interface API configured to receive a request for location services from a user. The request includes one or more request parameters including a location. The system also includes a second API configured to transmit the request to one or more of a plurality of geolocation service providers. The second API is configured to receive one or more geographic coordinates and associated accuracy ratings related to the request for location services from the user. The second API is configured to parse the request and determine which of the one or more geographic coordinates meet an accuracy threshold. The second API is configured to output geographic coordinates that meet the threshold to the user.

In another embodiment one or more non transitory computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions embodied thereon for displaying a location of a desired resource using a computer device is provided. The computer device includes a memory device and a processor. When executed by the processor the computer executable instructions cause the processor to receive a request for location services from a computer device of a user determine a location of the computer device of the user and extract from the request a desired resource to be located and a search radius. The instructions also cause the processor to query a database to generate a list of desired resources within the search radius of the location and transmit the list of desired resources to the user.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein provide a user with location services for locating points of interest associated with or near a specific address i.e. geographic location . In a specific embodiment requests for location services are received from a user including one or more request parameters. The request is formatted as a single uniform resource locator URL string that includes the one or more request parameters. The formatted request is transmitted to a first of a plurality of geolocation service providers. One or more geographic coordinates are received from the geolocation service provider related to the request from the user and the one or more request parameters. Finally the one or more geographic coordinates are output to the user.

The following detailed description illustrates embodiments of the invention by way of example and not by way of limitation. The description clearly enables one skilled in the art to make and use the disclosure describes several embodiments adaptations variations alternatives and uses of the disclosure including what is presently believed to be the best mode of carrying out the disclosure. The disclosure is described as applied to an exemplary embodiment namely systems and methods of providing location services. However it is contemplated that this disclosure has general application to identifying the location of services in industrial commercial and residential applications.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and preceded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly recited. Furthermore references to one embodiment of the present invention are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features.

The methods and systems described herein may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset thereof wherein the technical effect may include at least one of a receiving a request for location services from a user the request including one or more request parameters b formatting the request as a single uniform resource locator URL string including the one or more request parameters c transmitting the formatted request to a first of a plurality of geolocation service providers and d receiving from the geolocation service provider one or more geographic coordinates related to the request from the user and the one or more request parameters e outputting the one or more geographic coordinates to the user.

According to an exemplary embodiment the system receives an address e.g. a street address a zip code and utilizes outside geocoding service providers to convert the address into its associated geographic coordinates i.e. geolocation . The system can receive an address from a number of different clients including local clients e.g. clients residing on the same network as the system smartphones and an open API . The system compares the geolocation to a resources database with the locations of products and services to determine those products and services located closest to the address passing the results back to the client for presentation to the requestor e.g. an individual looking up the nearest automated teller machine ATM on a smartphone application .

According to the exemplary embodiment a variety of types of clients connect to a load balancer via hyper text transfer protocol HTTP . Requests received at the load balancer via HTTP are routed to a server where they are sent either to the web services API or to a location administration tool . The web services API receives information using a communications protocol. For example in the exemplary embodiment the representational state transfer REST protocol is employed which allows clients to call the web service API using a single universal resource locator URL and pass in various parameters in that URL. Requests sent to the web services API can include an address along with the type or types of resources the client is requesting. The address can include any address in any recognized format for any country provided the address is capable of being processed by a geolocation provider . The products or service can include any product or service indexed to a geolocation and stored in a resource database . For example products and services can include ATMs Paypass contactless payment method Prepaid Travel Easy Savings and Repower. The resource database can include any product or service that a client may wish to locate not limited to products and services in the financial services industry.

The web services API uses a communication protocol to send the address to an outside geocoding service provider e.g. a geolocation request who converts the address into its associated geographic coordinates and returns those coordinates to the API using a second communication protocol for further processing. An example of the communication protocol includes the simple object access protocol SOAP XML . An example of the second communication protocol is extensible markup language REST XML protocol. In order for the information received by the web services API using the REST protocol to be communicated to the outside geocoding service provider a protocol translation must occur e.g. a REST to SOAP conversion is performed . An example of a geocoding service provider is Spectrum commercially available from Pitney Bowes of Stamford Conn. If the geocoding service provider cannot provide the associated geographic coordinates for the address e.g. a match the web services API sends the address to subsequent geocoding service providers for processing until geographic coordinates can be returned to the location services system See . If the outside geocoding service provider returns geographic coordinates that are not a close match to the address the location services system sends the address to subsequent geocoding service providers for processing until geographic coordinates that are a close match are returned e.g. a geolocation response . In the event that no geographic coordinates are returned that are a close match by any of the geocoding service providers available to the location services system the location services system returns an error to the client through the API . Once the system has received a valid geolocation response the location services system communicates that response to the resource database which returns a list of products and services located near the address to the web services API which in turn passes that list onto the client .

For example a request and response flow from a client to the web services API is illustrated below. In the request an address is provided by the client through a URL e.g. HTTP in an internet browser. The URL is in the REST protocol. The URL is submitted in the browser through the internet to the load balancer which appropriately routes the URL and passes the URL on to the web services API where a REST to SOAP translation occurs in the XML gateway. The resulting address now in the SOAP protocol is processed by outside geocoding service providers until a geolocation response is returned to the web services API . The web services API then sends this geolocation response back to the client . In order to locate resources associated with the geolocation response a second request must be made to the web services API which forwards the request onto the resource database. The resource database then returns products and services data associated with the address to the web services API which performs a SOAP to REST translation and passes the information in the REST protocol back to the client s internet browser.

This request will find the nearest ATM s in a 10 mile radius around the specific latitude and longitude passed. The locationType atm parameter signifies to the backend service that ATM data is the resource of interest.

As shown in clients connect through the web services API to access the load balancer which prioritizes bandwidth and routes requests to the appropriate location. From the load balancer requests of the API e.g. requests including an address are routed to a geocoding provider to geocode an address. Once the geocoded address is obtained the geocoded address and a radius e.g. a distance around the address for which resources are to be located is passed to the resource database where a report of resources within the radius is generated. This report can then be passed back through the load balancer and through the web services API or the report can be passed onto a mobile gateway for texting the report to a user. A billing database is used to bill users of the system for the service.

The resource database is a key component in the design of the web services API as the resource database holds all resource data and the location name and address information for that data. The resource database design allows for locations to be shared and specific data sets to be segmented e.g. such as ATM locations and merchant services locations . A location master table shown in holds the basic address information for a particular resource as well as the latitude and longitude data associated with each resource. The resource attributes e.g. products and services are stored in a secondary table e.g. location attributes shown in with a one to many relationship to the location master table . This allows for data segmentation.

User computer device includes a processor for executing instructions. In some embodiments executable instructions are stored in a memory area . Processor may include one or more processing units e.g. in a multi core configuration . Memory area is any device allowing information such as executable instructions and or other data to be stored and retrieved. Memory area may include one or more computer readable media.

User computer device also includes at least one media output component for presenting information to user . Media output component is any component capable of conveying information to user . In some embodiments media output component includes an output adapter such as a video adapter and or an audio adapter. An output adapter is operatively coupled to processor and operatively couplable to an output device such as a display device e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display cathode ray tube CRT or electronic ink display or an audio output device e.g. a speaker or headphones .

In some embodiments user computer device includes an input device for receiving input from user . Input device may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen a gyroscope an accelerometer a position detector or an audio input device. A single component such as a touch screen may function as both an output device of media output component and input device .

User computer device may also include a communication interface which is communicatively couplable to a remote device such as location services system . Communication interface may include for example a wired or wireless network adapter or a wireless data transceiver for use with a mobile phone network e.g. Global System for Mobile communications GSM 3G 4G or Bluetooth or other mobile data network e.g. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX .

Stored in memory area are for example computer readable instructions for providing a user interface to user via media output component and optionally receiving and processing input from input device . A user interface may include among other possibilities a web browser and client application. Web browsers enable users such as user to display and interact with media and other information typically embedded on a web page or a website from location services system . A client application allows user to interact with a server application from location services system .

Server computer device includes a processor for executing instructions. Instructions may be stored in a memory area for example. Processor may include one or more processing units e.g. in a multi core configuration .

Processor is operatively coupled to a communication interface such that server computer device is capable of communicating with a remote device such as user computer device or another server computer device . For example communication interface may receive requests from user computer device via the Internet as illustrated in .

Processor may also be operatively coupled to a storage device . Storage device is any computer operated hardware suitable for storing and or retrieving data. In some embodiments storage device is integrated in server computer device . For example server computer device may include one or more hard disk drives as storage device . In other embodiments storage device is external to server computer device and may be accessed by a plurality of server computer devices . For example storage device may include multiple storage units such as hard disks or solid state disks in a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID configuration. Storage device may include a storage area network SAN and or a network attached storage NAS system.

In some embodiments processor is operatively coupled to storage device via a storage interface . Storage interface is any component capable of providing processor with access to storage device . Storage interface may include for example an Advanced Technology Attachment ATA adapter a Serial ATA SATA adapter a Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapter a RAID controller a SAN adapter a network adapter and or any component providing processor with access to storage device .

Memory areas and may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM such as dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and non volatile RAM NVRAM . The above memory types are exemplary only and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.

Data segmentation and resource sharing are important to building a resource database with organized useful data to be passed onto requesting clients . The design allows specific datasets to be called upon by the underlying code e.g. the URL within the web services layer.

The term processor as used herein refers to central processing units microprocessors microcontrollers reduced instruction set circuits RISC application specific integrated circuits ASIC logic circuits and any other circuit or processor capable of executing the functions described herein.

As used herein the terms software and firmware are interchangeable and include any computer program stored in memory for execution by processor including RAM memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory and non volatile RAM NVRAM memory. The above memory types are exemplary only and are thus not limiting as to the types of memory usable for storage of a computer program.

As will be appreciated based on the foregoing specification the above described embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented using computer programming or engineering techniques including computer software firmware hardware or any combination or subset thereof wherein the technical effect is to provide a user through an open application programming interface with location services for locating points of interest associated directly with or near an address provided by the user. A system for geocoding the address is provided which uses at least one geocoding provider to return geographic coordinates that match or closely match the address. Any such resulting program having computer readable code means may be embodied or provided within one or more computer readable media thereby making a computer program product i.e. an article of manufacture according to the discussed embodiments of the disclosure. The computer readable media may be for example but is not limited to a fixed hard drive diskette optical disk magnetic tape semiconductor memory such as read only memory ROM and or any transmitting receiving medium such as the Internet or other communication network or link. The article of manufacture containing the computer code may be made and or used by executing the code directly from one medium by copying the code from one medium to another medium or by transmitting the code over a network.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

