---

title: Systems and methods for information match scoring
abstract: Systems and methods described herein can assign a confidence score to a match of unstructured descriptive information with structured reference information in a reference database. The systems and methods can take into account the structured nature of the reference information in assigning the score, thereby facilitating increased confidence in the match, and consequently, facilitating improved database organization and content identification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026540&OS=09026540&RS=09026540
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09026540
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
This application relates generally to systems and methods for scoring associated with information matching and more particularly to scoring of matches between unstructured information and structured information.

Web sites for sharing of digital media such as digital music and video files have become commonplace. The web sites may be accessed to upload music and video files and to find music and video files to download listen to or view as authorized. Often users of such web sites provide descriptive terms for the music and video files when uploading the files to the web sites. The descriptive terms can facilitate appropriately categorizing and storing of the uploaded files for example.

There may be no particular restrictions placed on the descriptive terms and so the descriptive terms can be as varied as the users who think them up. For example one user might describe an uploaded music or video file in terms of a full title and artist name while another user might describe an uploaded file in terms of a partial title and a venue where a live performance took place and so on. Because the descriptive terms can be free form and may not occur in any particular pattern the descriptive terms may be considered unstructured. 

In contrast databases that store media files are typically highly organized and structured to facilitate efficient storing searching and retrieval of data. Thus a database might organize music or video files according to fixed pre defined patterns. For example a particular database might use a particular indexing system or systems with strict rules about how files are to be described. Such a database may be thought of as structured. 

Correctly identifying newly uploaded files can assist in storing the files within a structured database in such a way that efficiencies in database space utilization search and data retrieval can be realized. For example accurately matching unstructured descriptive terms corresponding to a newly uploaded file to organizing information or predefined field in a structured database can open up possibilities for clustering groups of files which all match the same reference. This can make database navigation and data retrieval more efficient and can promote more efficient content identification.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of any particular embodiments of the specification or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented in this disclosure.

This specification relates generally to systems and methods for scoring of information matching and more particularly to scoring of matches of unstructured information against a database of structured information. In more detail the systems and methods can assign a score to structured reference data based on matching of unstructured descriptive information with the structured reference data. The systems and methods can take into account the structured nature of the reference data in assigning the score. This can facilitate increased confidence in the information matching and consequently improved database organization and content identification.

The following description and the drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of systems for scoring information matching can include a matching component and a scoring component. The matching component can apply unstructured descriptive information such as free form descriptive terms associated with a media item to a structured reference database to select a set of candidate reference items for scoring. The structured reference database more specifically can include a plurality of reference items including structured descriptive information and the set of candidate reference items can be one or more of the reference items including structured descriptive information that matches one or more aspects of the unstructured descriptive information.

The scoring component can assign a score to one or more e.g. each of the candidate reference items based on one or more predetermined criteria. The one or more predetermined criteria can include for example a degree or extent to which an element of the structured descriptive information is discriminative as expressed e.g. by a weighting factor assigned to an element a length or number of matching terms between the structured descriptive information and the unstructured descriptive information and an occurrence of a same sequence or ordering of matching terms between the structured descriptive information and the unstructured descriptive information.

The one or more scores produced by the scoring component can be useful in a number of ways. For example the scores can be used to facilitate identification of candidate reference items that likely represent false positives produced by the matching component that is that correspond to instances where the matching component selects a candidate reference item from the reference database even though the probability is low that the candidate item is a correct match for the unstructured descriptive information. Thus the scores can have an advantageous sifting or winnowing effect on the candidate reference items produced by the matching component. More specifically based on their scores candidate reference items corresponding to false positives can be eliminated from the overall pool of candidate reference items and operations can go forward with a higher confidence that candidate reference items remaining in the pool are correctly matched with the unstructured descriptive information.

Accordingly the scoring component can promote efficiencies by creating possibilities for clustering same or similar data files facilitating improved database navigation searching and file retrieval and lowering the burden in subsequent processing of files for content identification. That is by more accurately categorizing and grouping files based on operations of the scoring component subsequent examination of files to identify their actual content can be made easier which among other things can also promote the improved database operations described in the foregoing.

The above outlined embodiments are now described in more detail with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It may be evident however that the embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments.

It should further be understood that the term component as used herein and the variously labeled component blocks as shown in the drawings are not intended to suggest that a labeled component is necessarily discrete and separate from another labeled component. The labeled components can be dispersed or intermixed. Additionally a particular label for a component rather than indicating any limitation on its capabilities should be understood as a categorization that generally describes one or a group of structures capabilities features or operations associated with the component. However the structures capabilities features or operations may be shared with other components or may cooperate with other components for combined effects.

Further as discussed in more detail in the following the components can be operative within a network such as the Internet. Network implementations facilitating embodiments of the components are described in more detail further on with reference to .

Referring now to a scoring system can include a matching component and a scoring component that can communicate with each other. The matching component can apply unstructured descriptive information such as the free form user supplied descriptive terms described in the preceding to a reference database . The unstructured descriptive information may also be referred to herein as unstructured metadata. The reference database can include a plurality of reference data items. The reference data items can include digital media files for example whose content is already known and which are already organized e.g. sorted categorized identified classified grouped clustered according to a known existing system such as an indexing system. The known information about the reference data items may thus be considered structured descriptive information also referred to herein as structured metadata. 

As noted the matching component can apply unstructured metadata to the reference database to try to match the unstructured metadata with structured metadata in the reference database . The meaning of match or matching in this context can include various aspects of determining a similarity or correspondence between things. For example matching can refer to comparing elements or aspects of the unstructured metadata with elements or aspects of the structured metadata and using predefined objective criteria to determine a similarity or correspondence between the compared elements or aspects.

Thus a match need not refer only to things that are exact counterparts or duplicates of each other although such counterparts are also matches. In other words the predefined objective criteria referred to in the preceding need not require in order to determine that given metadata elements or aspects match that the given metadata elements or aspects be exactly the same in their content or in their sequence or that the given metadata elements or aspects exactly meet any other requirements this could be unduly restrictive and exclude true matches in terms of the actual content of those things that the metadata elements or aspects describe. Instead the predefined objective criteria can be inclusive in an effort to ensure that true matches are not excluded. Accordingly the matching component can based on the applied unstructured metadata return results that include false positives among true matches.

More specifically the matching component can return as a result of matching of the unstructured metadata to the structured metadata a set of candidate reference data items from the reference database where the set of reference data items are candidates in the sense that they will undergo further processing by the scoring component to evaluate the likelihood that they are true matches.

Referring to the scoring system can receive as input unstructured metadata . A source of the unstructured metadata can include for example a network based media hosting and delivery system such as a music and or video sharing web site and associated components e.g. servers and communication equipment . As previously described users of such web sites can upload digital music and video files and when doing so provide free form descriptive information for example in the form of typed text entered via an interface about the uploaded files. The free form descriptive information can be stored on a storage device either temporarily or for an indefinite duration.

The scoring system can further include a communication component and receive the unstructured metadata via the communication component . The communication component can include components to facilitate handling and transfer of data such as network components I O components user interfaces application programming interfaces data read write components and the like. In particular the communication component can receive the unstructured metadata and perform any needed processing or pre processing of the unstructured metadata such as formatting blocking application of security measures parsing and the like and transfer the processed unstructured metadata to the matching component .

The communication component can further receive and process structured metadata from the reference database . As described previously the structured metadata can include data organized according to rules of a particular system. For example for a reference database storing digital music files the rules could dictate that the files be organized in terms of a particular sequence and content for metadata describing each file stored. The terms could include for example a full artist name followed by a full composition title.

The matching component can process the unstructured metadata and the structured metadata to match the unstructured metadata with or against the structured metadata to produce or generate matches . The matching can include operations as described previously e.g. determining one or more aspects of similarity between the unstructured metadata and the structured metadata .

For example the matching component can compare individual terms tokens or elements e.g. atomic units as defined by objective standards of the unstructured metadata with individual terms tokens or elements e.g. atomic units of the structured metadata and make a determination regarding similarity of the compared things. Additionally or alternatively the matching component can compare sequences of elements of the unstructured metadata with sequences of elements of the structured metadata and make a determination regarding similarity of the compared things. Additionally or alternatively the matching component can make a determination regarding similarity based on some other objective standard or measure. Additionally or alternatively the matching component can make a determination regarding similarity between the unstructured metadata and the structured metadata based on any combination of the foregoing with an output or result as denoted by matches .

In embodiments of the scoring system an atomic unit can be a word or a letter and a sequence can include a text string or a succession of words e.g. at least two words . A determination regarding similarity based on an objective standard or measure can include the use of weighting factors statistical information and functions of the weighting factors and statistical information.

As used in the following reference item can refer to a file stored in the reference database and any structured information describing the file. The structured information can correspond to structured metadata described in the preceding and may also be referred to herein as reference metadata. For example the structured information can include at least a portion of an entry in an index or catalog of the reference database and can include such descriptive terms as a file name e.g. a song or composition or video title and an associated author name e.g. an artist or band or creator name . Thus the file name and author name can be one concrete example of reference metadata as used herein. For conciseness a reference may be used herein to more completely mean reference metadata associated with a reference item. 

In view of the foregoing and referring again to the matches can include candidate reference metadata associated with candidate reference items. The candidate reference items can correspond for example to digital media files of known content stored in the reference database . The matches can be passed on for further evaluation by the scoring component . The scoring component can process the matches using operations described in more detail further on to generate or produce or output scoring data . The scoring data can include a score assigned to one or more e.g. each candidate reference where the score indicates a degree of confidence e.g. relative to a perfect score or absolute certainty or knowledge that the candidate reference is a true match with the unstructured metadata.

To produce the scores the scoring component can use statistical information such as Inverse Document Frequency IDF information associated with reference metadata in the reference database . The IDF information can be pre existing or can be computed. IDF information can be a measure of how frequently a token or term such as a word occurs in a corpus or collection of data. Accordingly the IDF information can provide a measure of confidence in information searching and matching. For example the more frequently a term occurs in a corpus of data as signified by a correspondingly lower IDF value the lower the confidence may be that a search result or match is a true match because of the relatively high number of possible matches. On the other hand the less frequently a term occurs in a corpus of data as signified by a correspondingly lower IDF value the higher the confidence may be that a search result or match is a true match because of the relatively low number of possible matches.

More specifically the scoring component can use IDF values for N grams associated with the reference database . As is known N gram can refer to a sequence of contiguous or consecutive terms or tokens or atomic units however defined in a corpus of data. Thus for example unigram or N gram of size 1 can refer to a single term or token or atomic unit e.g. a word bigram or N gram of size 2 can refer to a consecutive sequence of two terms or tokens or atomic units e.g. two consecutive words and so on. In embodiments of the scoring system the IDF values can be structured in two inverted indices one for unigrams and one for bigrams. Indexing can be implemented as an inverse mapping from a unigram and or bigram to a reference in which a corresponding word or words occur along with corresponding IDF values. Advantageously such indexing can provide information about the separation of elements in the structured metadata such as the separation between an artist name and a song name in music metadata.

The discussion turns now to methodologies and or flow diagrams in accordance with this disclosure. For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methodologies disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

Referring now to a methodology according to embodiments of the scoring system is shown. In the following unstructured metadata may also be referred to as probe metadata or simply Probe and structured metadata may also be referred to as reference metadata or simply Reference. 

At probe metadata can be matched with given reference metadata e.g. by the matching component in the reference database and a corresponding value can be assigned to the match. Operations associated with can include for example looking up e.g. by the matching component via the communication component the IDF values in the two inverted indices referred to earlier for unigrams and bigrams in the given reference metadata and associating each IDF value with its corresponding unigram or bigram. At a score can be computed e.g. by the scoring component based on the value assigned to the match and at corresponding scoring data can be output e.g. by the scoring component or communication component .

At operations associated with are shown in greater detail. At component matching functions of IDF values and N gram weights can be computed e.g. by the matching component . At results of the component matching functions can be weighted in a compound matching function e.g. by the matching component by weighting values associated with the given reference metadata to produce a match result.

At operations associated with are shown in greater detail. At component scoring functions of IDF values and N gram weights can be computed e.g. by the scoring component . At results of the component scoring functions can be weighted in a compound scoring function e.g. by the scoring component to produce a score for the given reference metadata.

Referring now to the operations of are shown in still greater detail. At operations associated with are illustrated. At the computing of the component matching functions of IDF values and N gram weights can include computing e.g. by the matching component a function S X where S X can be expressed as a summation of the IDFs of the tokens in which can be either unigrams e.g. single words or bigrams .

At the computing of the component matching functions of IDF values and N gram weights can further include computing e.g. by the matching component a function G M N where G M N can be expressed as BigramWeight 

where A is the set of unigrams e.g. single words that match between M and N and B is the set of bigrams e.g. two consecutive words that match between M and N. BigramWeight can be a bigram weight that is a pre existing value that can be available for example from the reference database or one or more associated databases or that can be computed.

At the computing of the compound matching function of IDF values and N gram weights can further include computing e.g. by the matching component a function Match Probe Reference where Match Probe Reference can be expressed as Match Probe Reference TitleWeight Probe Reference.title AuthorWeight Probe Reference.author .

where TitleWeight and AuthorWeight can represent respectively a title weight e.g. a weighting value assigned to reference metadata corresponding to a title associated with the reference item and an author weight e.g. a weighting value assigned to reference metadata corresponding to an author associated with the reference item . TitleWeight and AuthorWeight can represent pre existing values that can be available for example from the reference database or one or more associated databases or that can be computed. Probe can represent probe metadata as described previously and Reference.title and Reference.author can respectively represent reference metadata corresponding to a title associated with the reference item and reference metadata corresponding to an author associated with the reference item. TitleWeight and AuthorWeight can correspond respectively to Reference.title and Reference.author. A result of can correspond to the match result produced by as described previously.

It is to be appreciated that the weighting as described in the foregoing is only one example of a way in which weighting can be applied. In the particular example under discussion that is one involving music metadata it can be advantageous to downweight or reduce a weighting assigned to an author in order to avoid matching all compositions attributed to the author. However varying types of reference content can call for varying considerations in assigning weights to particular metadata elements resulting in varying distributions of weighting values. Further it is to be appreciated that the structured metadata can comprise any number of elements or fields each of which can be assigned a weight depending on the appropriate considerations and that the number of elements or fields is not limited to two e.g. title and author as in the foregoing example.

At operations associated with are illustrated. At the computing of the component scoring functions of IDF values and N gram weights can include computing e.g. by the scoring component a function F X where F X can be expressed as BigramWeight 

where BigramWeight is as described earlier U represents the unigrams included in X and B represents the bigrams included in X.

At the computing of the component scoring functions of IDF values and N gram weights can further include computing e.g. by the scoring component a function NormalizeStructured Reference where NormalizeStructured Reference can be expressed as NormalizeStructured Reference TitleWeight Reference.title AuthorWeight Reference.author 

At the computing of the component scoring functions of IDF values and N gram weights can further include computing e.g. by the scoring component a function NormalizeUnstructured Probe where NormalizeUnstructured Probe can be expressed as NormalizeUnstructured Probe Probe .

At operations associated with are illustrated. At the computing of the compound function including the other functions of the IDF values and N gram weights can include computing e.g. by the scoring component a function Score Probe Reference where Score Probe Reference can be expressed as Score Probe Reference Match Probe Reference 1 ReferenceWeight NormalizeUnstructured Probe ReferenceWeight NormalizeStructured Reference 

where ReferenceWeight can represent a weight assigned to Reference e.g. the reference or structured metadata and can be a pre existing value that can be available for example from the reference database or one or more associated databases or that can be computed.

As an illustration of the operations shown in an example using concrete values is described in the following.

In this example it is assumed that the unstructured metadata is the text string boom boom the text string may have been generated for example by a licensed user uploading a video to a media hosting and delivery system such as system . The structured metadata or reference metadata is as follows author Black eyed Peas title Boom Boom Paw .

It is further assumed that IDF values for unigrams and bigrams in the reference database are as follows 

Given the foregoing example values and assuming values for BigramWeight AuthorWeight TitleWeight and ReferenceWeight are available or can be computed as noted previously the expressions of Table 1 can be evaluated as follows Reference.author 0.5 0.6 0.6 1.5 BigramWeight 0.7 0.7 3.8 Reference.title 0.8 0.8 0.8 1.5 0.9 0.9 5.10 NormalizeUnstructured Probe 0.8 0.8 BigramWeight 0.9 2.95 NormalizeStructured Reference 0.3 AuthorWeight 3.8 1.0 TitleWeight 5.10 6.24 Match Probe Reference 1.0 2.95 2.95 Score Probe Reference 5 ReferenceWeight 1 2.95 1 2.95 5 6.24 0.52

As described earlier the scoring data represented by the result 0.52 in the preceding example generated by the scoring systems and methodologies described in the foregoing can be useful for example in content identification. Content identification can involve examining a file e.g. a digital media file to determine for example by melody matching in the case of music media the file s actual content. As noted earlier increased efficiency in content identification can facilitate among other things improved database navigation searching and file retrieval.

To facilitate content identification as shown in the scoring data and the matches can be processed for example by a filtering component . The filtering component can apply predetermined criteria to the scoring data to thin the field of candidate reference items represented by the matches . For example the predetermined criteria can specify one or more threshold scores that a candidate reference item must meet in order to be considered for further processing. Based on application of the predetermined criteria a filtered set of matches can be output by the filtering component where the filtered set of matches is smaller than the full set of matches . Then for example a content identification component can process the filtered set of matches where the filtered set of matches represents a reduced workload as compared to the full set of matches .

Referring now to in view of the foregoing another methodology according to embodiments of the scoring system is shown. At a reference database that includes reference metadata describing media items stored in the reference database can be accessed e.g. by the matching component via the communication component . At probe metadata associated with an uploaded media item can be matched e.g. by the matching component with the reference metadata to obtain a set of one or more candidate references with respective one or more associated weighting values where the candidate references correspond to one or more of the media items stored in the reference database.

At a scoring function expressed at least partly in terms of the weighting values can be evaluated e.g. by the scoring component for the set of one or more candidate references to obtain scoring data indicating a probability that a candidate reference is correctly matched with the probe metadata. At results of the scoring function can be filtered e.g. by a filtering component to obtain a filtered e.g. reduced set of one or more candidate references. At content identification can be performed e.g. by a content identification component based the filtered set of one or more candidate references.

Various acts have been described in detail above in connection with respective system diagrams. It is to be appreciated that the detailed description of such acts in the prior figures can be and are intended to be implementable in accordance with the methodologies described herein.

Reference throughout this specification to embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of the word embodiments or in embodiments in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

To the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware e.g. a circuit a combination of hardware and software or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor e.g. digital signal processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables hardware to perform specific functions e.g. generating interest points and or fingerprints software on a computer readable medium or a combination thereof.

The aforementioned systems circuits modules and so on have been described with respect to interaction between several components and or blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems circuits components blocks and so forth can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

Moreover the words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec coder decoder and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic not shown in and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM .

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 70 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s which can include an application or a system that accesses a service on the server . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s metadata and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware or hardware in combination with software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform for example interest point detection distorting merging pruning mixing fingerprint generation matching score generation or fingerprint comparisons in accordance with the subject disclosure. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes where the data packet contains for example an audio sample. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The systems and processes described below can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders that are not all of which may be explicitly illustrated herein.

What has been described above includes examples of the implementations of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the above description of illustrated implementations of this disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed implementations to the precise forms disclosed. While specific implementations and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such implementations and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

