---

title: Body armor
abstract: A body armor system that includes a fabric carrier configured (i) to be worn by a user and (ii) to hold armor plates. A back armor plate is held by the carrier. A right side plate is held by the carrier and a left side plate is held by the carrier. Straps are configured to wrap horizontally across the user and matingly connect to each other. Straps integral to the carrier are configured to wrap down over the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected horizontal straps. A right thigh plate and a left thigh plate are matingly connected with straps around right and left thighs of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09003562&OS=09003562&RS=09003562
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09003562
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120712
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to us.

Conventional body armor for the protection of combatants has been implemented in various forms e.g. suits of armor worn by knights in the 14century as is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Some examples of conventional modern body armor implementations that provide various levels of ballistic protection over various regions of a body include the armor of U.S. Pat. No. 6 129 383 issued Oct. 10 2000 383 U.S. Pat. No. 6 793 291 291 issued Sep. 21 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 7 266 850 issued Sep. 11 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 810 167 issued Oct. 12 2010 and U.S. Published Application 2006 0243126 published November 2006. The body armor system that is substantially shown and described in the 383 and 291 patents is commercially referred to as Vehicle Body Armor Support System abbreviated as V BASS see for example the Abstracts of the 383 and 291 patents . The V BASS body armor system may be procured from ArmorWorks Phoenix Ariz.

However such conventional body armor implementations may have deficiencies such as but not necessarily limited to limited ballistic protection capabilities limited coverage of the body to be protected lack of constraint when used within a vehicle and thus may jostle bump or rub a wearer unwieldy overly heavy excessively hot and or otherwise uncomfortable for personal wear or lacking in desired protection.

Accordingly the present invention may provide a body armor system. The system generally comprises a fabric carrier configured i to be worn by a user and ii to hold armor plates a back armor plate held by the carrier a right side plate held by the carrier and a left side plate held by the carrier a right front strap integral to the carrier and a left front strap integral to the carrier wherein the right front strap and the left front strap are configured to wrap horizontally across the user and matingly connect to each other a right shoulder strap integral to the carrier and a left shoulder strap integral to the carrier wherein the right shoulder strap and the left shoulder strap are configured to wrap over the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap a right thigh plate and a left thigh plate an inner right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner right thigh strap end and the second inner right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an outer right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer right thigh strap end and the second outer right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an inner left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner left thigh strap end and the second inner left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other and an outer left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer left thigh strap end and the second outer left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other.

The system further comprises a right supplemental support strap integral to the right thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap and a left supplemental support strap integral to the left thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap.

The system further comprises a right supplemental support strap integral to the right thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap and a left supplemental support strap integral to the left thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap.

Further according to the present invention a body armor system may be provided. The system generally comprises a fabric carrier configured i to be worn by a user and ii to hold armor plates a back armor plate held by the carrier a right side plate held by the carrier and a left side plate held by the carrier a right front strap integral to the carrier and a left front strap integral to the carrier wherein the right front strap and the left front strap are configured to wrap horizontally across the user and matingly connect to each other a right shoulder strap integral to the carrier and a left shoulder strap integral to the carrier wherein the right shoulder strap and the left shoulder strap are configured to wrap over the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap a right thigh plate and a left thigh plate an inner right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner right thigh strap end and the second inner right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an outer right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer right thigh strap end and the second outer right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an inner left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner left thigh strap end and the second inner left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other and an outer left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer left thigh strap end and the second outer left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other wherein the bottom edge of the back plate comprises a back plate channel the bottom edge of the right side plate comprises a right side plate channel and the bottom edge of the left side plate comprises a left side plate channel and the back plate channel is connected at a first end to the right side plate channel via a first multi directional resistive joint and the back plate channel is connected at a second end to the left side plate channel via a second multi directional resistive joint.

The back plate is mounted into the back plate channel the right side plate is mounted into the right side plate channel and the left side plate is mounted into the left side plate channel by at least one of ribs or barbs on the inner top edges of the channel or an adhesive on the inner bottom of the channel.

The system further comprises a right supplemental support strap integral to the right thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap and a left supplemental support strap integral to the left thigh plate and configured to wrap upward and back to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap.

In addition according to the present invention a body armor system may be provided. The system generally comprises a fabric carrier configured i to be worn by a user and ii to hold armor plates a back armor plate held by the carrier a right front strap integral to the carrier and a left front strap integral to the carrier wherein the right front strap and the left front strap are configured to wrap horizontally across the user and matingly connect to each other a right shoulder strap integral to the carrier and a left shoulder strap integral to the carrier wherein the right shoulder strap and the left shoulder strap are configured to wrap over the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap a right thigh plate and a left thigh plate an inner right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner right thigh strap end and the second inner right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an outer right thigh strap integral to the right thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer right thigh strap end and the second outer right thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the right thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other an inner left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first inner left thigh strap end and the second inner left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around a left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other and an outer left thigh strap integral to the left thigh plate and having first and second ends wherein the first outer left thigh strap end and the second outer left thigh strap end are configured to wrap around the left thigh of the user and matingly connect to each other wherein the bottom edge of the right side plate comprises a right side plate channel having an inner end and an outer end the bottom edge of the left side plate comprises a left side plate channel having an inner end and an outer end the bottom edge of the right thigh plate comprises a right thigh plate channel and the bottom edge of the left thigh plate comprises a left thigh plate channel and the right thigh plate channel is connected to the right side plate channel outer end via a first multi directional resistive joint and the left thigh plate channel is connected to the left side plate channel outer end via a second multi directional resistive joint.

The right side plate is mounted into the right side plate channel the left side plate is mounted into the left side plate channel the right thigh plate is mounted into the right thigh plate channel and the left thigh plate is mounted into left thigh plate channel by at least one of ribs or barbs on the inner top edges of the channel or an adhesive on the inner bottom of the channel.

The system further comprises a right supplemental support strap integral to the right thigh plate and configured to wrap up to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap and a left supplemental support strap integral to the left thigh plate and configured to wrap up to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap.

The bottom edge of the back plate comprises a back plate channel and the back plate channel is connected on the right side at the inner end of the right side plate channel via a third multi directional resistive joint and the back plate channel is connected on the left side at the inner end of the left side plate channel via a fourth multi directional resistive joint.

The back plate is mounted into back plate channel by at least one of ribs or barbs on the inner top edges of the channel or an adhesive on the inner bottom of the channel.

The system further comprises a right supplemental support strap integral to the right thigh plate and configured to wrap up to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap and a left supplemental support strap integral to the left thigh plate and configured to wrap up to the front of the user and matingly connect to the connected right front strap and left front strap.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation.

A plurality of items structural elements compositional elements materials subassemblies and the like may be presented in a common list or table for convenience. However these lists or tables should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. As such no individual member of such list should be considered a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on the presentation in a common group so specifically described.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

Directional references to left generally designated via the suffix L right generally designated via the suffix R front back rear top bottom up upward and down downward are made with respect to a human body the body generally including torso head supported by neck and limbs e.g. arms and legs . When reference is made to a vehicle or an implementation of the invention in connection with a vehicle the directions are generally that of the vehicle body. See also .

Unless specifically indicated otherwise elements herein that are numbered less than 100 refer to conventional elements while elements that are numbered 100 and greater refer to elements of the present invention.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system for body armor in particular a body e.g. personal individual etc. armor system apparatus device and the like .

The body armor system generally comprises an improvement to the body armor systems of U.S. Pat. No. 6 129 383 issued Oct. 10 2000 to Kocher hereinafter the 383 patent and U.S. Pat. No. 6 793 291 issued Sep. 21 2004 to Kocher hereinafter the 291 patent both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The 383 and 291 patents illustrate and describe armor systems that may be implemented in connection with a vehicle. Specific reference to the FIGS. and the elements of the 383 and 291 patents will use the numbering contained therein and reference to the respective patent will be included because in some instances as between the 383 and 291 patents the same or similar elements incorporate different element numbering. In particular the body armor may provide improved protection to the femoral artery region e.g. thigh region of a user especially when the user is standing or moving outside the vehicle as well as other improved features and benefits when compared to the convention body armor of the 383 and 291 patents.

Referring to side plus front and side plus rear views respectively of an implementation of conventional body armor of the 383 patent is shown as worn by a user e.g. person vehicle occupant Soldier war fighter prisoner detainee reporter journalist etc. U when the user U is standing outside of the vehicle. As shown in the 383 patent on FIG. 10 and described in column 1 lines 50 51 65 and 67 the armor of the 383 patent comprises a ballistic material carrier 1 a ballistic front plate 2 a back plate 15 and a side armor plate 17. As described in column 2 lines 6 9 The basic material carrier vest at column 2 line 18 1 is worn by the occupant and bears the load of the armor system when the vehicle occupant is standing or outside the vehicle. 

Note that in the 383 patent on FIGS. 10 12 and in the 291 patent on FIGS. 1 4 right side elevations views of the respective armors when the user U is seated inside of the vehicle are illustrated. In the 383 patent all of the FIGS. illustrate various example implementations of support strut elements 6 and 10 and the related components that are configured to transfer weight of the armor to the vehicle seat 383 patent Abstract . In the 291 patent the support system allows direct transfer of the armor system weight to the seat or other points of the vehicle 291 patent Abstract . Load transferring attachments include straps or elastic system that takes into consideration the motion and movement of the vehicle 291 patent FIG. 11 and column 4 lines 3 11 . The armor system may be configured to implement the transfer of the armor system weight to the seat or other points of the vehicle as provided in the 383 and 291 patents while providing further advantages and benefits to the user U. The armor system may be configured to be installed e.g. mounted to supports inside the vehicle such that the user U climbs into the vehicle and dons the system . Alternatively the armor system may be configured to be essentially portable that is worn outside of the vehicle as well as inside of the vehicle.

Referring to a front schematic i.e. exploded unfolded view illustrating an embodiment of the body e.g. personal individual etc. armor system apparatus device and the like is shown. The armor generally comprises a ballistic fabric material carrier e.g. vest a ballistic back plate right R side and left L side ballistic plates e.g. plates R and L and right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates e.g. plates R and L . The armor system may be implemented in connection with a front ballistic plate that is similar to the front plate 2 of the 383 patent to provide substantially complete ballistic event protective coverage of the user U torso and thigh regions.

When the occupant U is inside the vehicle the ballistic plates and may be supported via support mechanisms that are implemented similarly to the supports illustrated and described in the 383 and 291 patents. Note however the 383 and 291 patents generally fail to include the additional separate right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates e.g. the thigh protector ballistic plates of the present invention . Further the 383 and 291 patents generally fail to provide support for any of the ballistic plates across substantially the entire length of the lower edge of the ballistic plates. The 383 and 291 patents generally only provide support at point locations. In contrast the armor system generally provides more complete stable and secure support to the plates and . See in particular FIGS. and A E and related description below.

The carrier is generally made from high strength and flexible fabric such as nylon e.g. Cordura or the like as is well known to one of skill in the art. The carrier is generally implemented having pockets or cavities for clarity of illustration and explanation not shown that are sized and configured to securely hold respective ballistic plates and . The pockets that hold the ballistic plates and may be implemented similarly to the pockets as shown and described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 266 850 issued Sep. 11 2007 to Strum et al. as element 308 on FIG. 3 and column 4 lines 33 58. The plates and may be implemented as any appropriate ballistic protective material e.g. ballistic fabric in a plate shaped configuration metal such as hot rolled steel ceramic and the like as is known to one of skill in the art .

The vest further comprises integral right front and left front straps e.g. front straps R and L integral right top and left top straps e.g. top straps R and L . The straps may be implemented similarly to the straps of the 291 patent and the straps may be implemented similarly to the straps of the 291 patent. The straps and are generally implemented having adjustable lengths. When worn by the user U the right front and left front straps are generally wrapped horizontally forward and fastened matingly connected to each other to form a combination cummerbund across the front of the user U and over the front ballistic plate and the right top and left top straps are generally wrapped forward and down and fastened over and to the cummerbund formed by the front straps . Such an implementation may be similar to the conventional implementation as illustrated on .

The connections fastening implemented in connection with the system straps e.g. the straps and and other straps described below may be implemented via attachment members including quick release mechanisms such as aircraft or automotive type complementary tangs and buckles snaps loop and square rings or D rings hook and loop or eye fasteners e.g. Velcro and the like. For simplicity and clarity of illustration and discussion the connections are generally illustrated as hook and loop fasteners however the strap related connections may be implemented as any appropriate attachments to meet the design criteria of a particular application as is known to one of skill in the art.

The right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates each further comprise respective pairs of right R and left L mating similar complementary A and B inner first and outer second retention straps and e.g. first inner retention strap pairs RA and RB and LA and LB and second outer retention strap pairs RA and RB and LA and LB . As such in one example the right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates may be implemented integrally with the vehicle e.g. installed in the vehicle . The straps and may be implemented having adjustable lengths. When the occupant U is seated in the vehicle the retention straps and may then be fastened to secure the right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates . Such an embodiment may provide the user U a lighter and more mobile weight burden when outside of the vehicle and yet provide more ballistic protection that is mechanically secure when inside the vehicle.

Referring to a sectional view taken at line of illustrating the installation of the left thigh protector ballistic plate L around the outer relative to the vehicle left thigh of the user U is shown. The right thigh protector ballistic plate R is generally worn in a similar manner on the right thigh of the user U.

Referring to a front schematic i.e. exploded unfolded view illustrating another embodiment of the body armor system is shown. Compared to the embodiment of the system of the vest integrally includes the right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates similarly to the inclusion of the side plates .

Referring to a front schematic i.e. exploded unfolded view illustrating another embodiment of the body armor system is shown. In particular the system further comprises right and left supplemental support straps e.g. supplemental support straps R and L . The right and left supplemental support straps are generally implemented i.e. connected fastened hooked up etc. between the right thigh protector and left thigh protector ballistic plates and the front of the carrier .

The right side of the body armor is illustrated implemented similarly to the embodiment as illustrated on that is the right thigh protector ballistic plate R is separate from the vest . The left side of the body armor is illustrated as implemented similarly to the embodiment illustrated on that is the left thigh protector ballistic plate L is integral to the vest . The right and left supplemental support straps may be advantageously implemented with any embodiment of the vest implementation of the system .

Referring to a broken partial right side elevation view of the armor is shown. The right side of the vehicle occupant U is shown in a seated position. In the embodiment illustrated a front plate is implemented. The right thigh protector plate R as illustrated extends forward to provide ballistic protection to the thigh and knee regions of the user U. The thigh protector ballistic plates are generally fastened around the thighs of the occupant U as illustrated and described above in connection with .

Also illustrated is the supplemental support strap R as installed that is extended upward and back and connected between the carrier at the front plate and the right thigh protector plate R. The straps may be implemented having adjustable lengths. The supplemental support straps are generally implemented with a resilient e.g. stretchable compliant material e.g. elastic rubber and the like that provides support to the thigh protector plates . The resilient material that is implemented in the support straps is generally selected to provide support of the thigh protector plates when the user U is standing and when the user U is seated. Such support may reduce the weight loading on the thigh region of the user U such that the user U generally has superior mobility due to the motion of the thigh having less weight to contend with.

Referring to a front schematic i.e. exploded unfolded view illustrating another embodiment of the body armor system is shown. In particular the system further comprises one or more support channels and one or more joints . While illustrated having a structure similar to the system embodiment illustrated on that is the connection between the back plate and the side plates is implemented via the joints instead of fabric of the vest the support channels and or the joints may be advantageously implemented in connection with any of the features and embodiments that are implemented in connection with the system illustrated on and .

The support channels are generally implemented to provide support under one or more but not necessarily any or all of the ballistic plates and hence reduced weight load on the user U. The support channels may be mounted in the vehicle similarly to the upper support strut attachment of the 383 patent. However the channels are generally implemented having a more supportive length than the essentially single point implementations that are implemented in the patent 383. For example the plates R R and L are illustrated having channels across the entire lower bottom edge while the plate L has a channel across a portion e.g. about one half of the lower edge. As such the channels may provide more stable and complete support of the ballistic plates and than is provided by the conventional upper support strut attachment of the 383 patent.

The joints may be implemented at one or more but not necessarily any or all of interfacing junction interfaces between adjacent ballistic plates and . The joints are generally implemented as resistive multi directional articulating joints e.g. ball joint gimbals gimbal coupling and the like . The joints may in one example be implemented substantially as the ball joint coupling as shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 807 857 issued Dec. 19 1905 to Palmenberg U.S. Pat. No. 2 670 228 issued Feb. 23 1954 to Pagliuso U.S. Pat. No. 2 752 116 issued Jun. 26 1956 to Minnis and U.S. Pat. No. 4 708 510 issued Nov. 24 1987 to McConnell et al. all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. However the coupling may be implemented as any appropriate resistive and or quick locking multi directional joint mechanism to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The joints generally provide distributed support between adjacent ballistic plates and . The joints are generally implemented with the channels between adjacent ballistic plates and . That is the channels may be included at on the bottom edge of ballistic plates and and the joints may provide a resistive multi directional mechanical connection between adjacent channels e.g. between the channel on the bottom edge of the back plate and the inner end of the channel on the bottom edge of the side plate and between the outer end of the channel on the bottom edge of the side plate and the channel on the bottom edge of thigh plate . As such the joints as well as the adjustable straps and generally further provide the capability for the user U to rapidly multi directionally rotationally and linearly adjust the fit and position of the components of the system in any direction to a comfortable yet protective configuration whether seated inside the vehicle or standing and or moving outside the vehicle.

Referring to end or cross sectional views of example embodiments of the channel are illustrated. The channel and the plates and not illustrated for clarity is illustrated as typically installed when mounted in the vehicle via a support strut e.g. a support strut similar to element 6 of the 383 patent . When the system not intended to be mounted in the vehicle the support strut is not implemented. The edge of the ballistic plates and or generally enclosed in fabric of the vest not shown to avoid clutter in the illustrations rests or is affixed in the channel .

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system personal body armor. Such a system in its alternative embodiments may reduce or overcome various deficiencies of conventional personal body armor.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

