---

title: Treatment of cancer
abstract: This disclosure provides agents, compositions and methods of treating cancer by inhibiting histone lysine specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) and/or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 (LSD2). Agents and compositions comprise statins and/or inhibitors of LSD1/2.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09289415&OS=09289415&RS=09289415
owner: The Brigham and Women's Hospital, Inc.
number: 09289415
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120904
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 National Stage Application of International Application No. PCT US2012 053605 filed on Sep. 4 2012 which designates the United States and which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 530 035 filed Sep. 1 2011 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. R01DK077036 and R01GM78458 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII format via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Mar. 7 2014 is named 20140307 SequenceListing TextFile043214 071632 US and is 2 120 bytes in size.

This invention relate to cancer therapeutics and new use of cholesterol lowing drugs for the treatment of cancer.

Despite years of research into the development of new methods of treatment many types of cancer including e.g. breast and colon cancer remain quite common. Continued search and development of more anti cancer agents to complement or replace existing treatments is clearly desired.

Embodiments of this disclosure are based on the discovery that cholesterol lowing drugs statins have epigenetic modulating adjuvant activities thereby epigenetically altering the regulation of expression of genes in chromosomes. Specifically statins inhibit histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 and bring forth cell death in the human cancer cell. Inhibiting LSD1 and 2 activities specifically affect the methylation states of genes encompassed in chromatins the methylation level of genes is increased which leads to alter gene expression. The cell death apoptosis which is induced by statins is not mitigated by mevalonate. Accordingly inhibiting the activities of LSD1 and or LSD2 can be used to induce apoptosis when desired for example in cancer and tumor treatment when there is a desire to kill all cancer cells so as not to select for resistant cancer cells during typical cancer chemotherapy.

Accordingly in one embodiment it is the objective of this disclosure to provide additional cancer therapeutics to the existing repertoire of cancer therapies currently available.

In another embodiment it is also the objective of this disclosure to provide a new use of cholesterol lowing drugs e.g. for cancer treatment.

In another embodiment it is also the objective of this disclosure to provide a new therapeutic to be used in conjunction with existing repertoire of cancer therapies for the prevention of development of chemotherapy resistance cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent in conjunction with at least one chemotherapy wherein the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent promotes chemo protection and reducing chemo resistance. In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent enhance the drug efficacy of the at least one chemotherapy to promotes chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for enhancing the drug efficacy of at least one cancer chemotherapy in a subject to promote chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject comprising administering to the subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent in conjunction with the at least one chemotherapy.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating chemotherapy resistant cancer in a subject the method comprising determining whether chemotherapy resistant cancer cell population of the subject are susceptible to an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the epigenetic modulating agents wherein the agent treats chemotherapy resistant cancer in the subject by inducing apoptosis of the chemotherapy resistant cancer cells and wherein the apoptosis induced is at least 10 compared to cancer cells of the subject in the absence of the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent.

In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent is an inhibitor of a histone demethylase e.g. histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 . In one embodiment the at least one chemotherapy is an alkylating chemotherapeutic drug. In one embodiment the alkylating chemotherapeutic drug is an alkylating antineoplastic agent. In one embodiment the alkylating antineoplastic agent attaches an alkyl group CH to DNA.

In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent enhance the drug efficacy of the at least one chemotherapy to promotes chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject. In one embodiment the enhancement of the chemo drug efficacy is at least 10 over a control level.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 .

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein the inhibitor treats cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 and if so administering to the subject a composition comprising the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein the inhibitor treats cancer in the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 induces apoptosis in the cancer cells of the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the apoptosis induced is at least 10 increase compared to cancer cells of the subject in the absence of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2. That is the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 should induce more apoptosis is the experimented cancer cells in the presence of the inhibitor than in the control cancer cells in the absence of the inhibitor .

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising a statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a statin wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a statin wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by a statin and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the statin wherein the statin treats cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by a statin and if so administering to the subject a composition comprising the statin wherein the statin treats cancer in the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin induces apoptosis in the cancer cells of the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the apoptosis induced is at least 10 compared to cancer cells of the subject in the absence of statin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the apoptosis is measured by any method known in the art. In another embodiment of any method described herein the apoptosis is measured by a method selected from the group consisting of a cell free apoptotic assay a DNA fragmentation assay a DNA laddering assay an annexin V staining assay and a terminal transferase dUTP nick end Labeling TUNEL assay.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a statin. In another embodiment of any method described herein the wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin is selected from the group consisting of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin pravastatin atorvastatin and rosuvastatin. In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin is fluvastatin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein a combination of more than one statin is administered or included in the composition administered for cancer therapy. For example fluvastatin and atorvastatin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the monoamine oxidase inhibitor is tranylcypromine derivatives or analogues thereof.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is selected from the group consisting of safrazine parygline nialamide mebanazine isocarboxazid iprocozide clorygline cimoxatone and beflomatone.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a compound selected from the group consisting of the phenylcyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2010143582 and the cyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2012013727.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is formulated to be administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapeutic to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising a statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapeutic to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 further comprises at least one additional cancer therapeutic.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising a statin further comprises at least one additional cancer therapeutic.

In one embodiment of any method described herein wherein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of surgery radiation therapy chemotherapy immunotherapy and gene therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein wherein the subject is a mammal. In another embodiment the subject is a primate mammal. In other embodiment the subject is human.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin or the composition further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the method further comprises selecting a subject who has cancer or has been diagnose with cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least a statin and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least a statin at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one statin at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment of any composition described herein the composition is used for the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 for use in the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and at least one additional cancer therapeutic for use in the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a statin for use in the treatment of cancer in a subject.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and a statin for use in the treatment of cancer wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 a statin and at least one additional cancer therapeutic for use in the treatment of cancer wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the statin is selected from the group consisting of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin pravastatin atorvastatin and rosuvastatin.

In one embodiment the monoamine oxidase inhibitor is tranylcypromine derivatives or analogues thereof.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is selected from the group consisting of safrazine parygline nialamide mebanazine isocarboxazid iprocozide clorygline cimoxatone and beflomatone.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a compound selected from the group consisting of the phenylcyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2010143582 and the cyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2012013727.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the composition is formulated to be administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the composition is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

As used herein the term comprising or comprises is used in reference to methods and respective component s thereof that are essential to the claims yet open to the inclusion of unspecified elements whether essential or not. The use of comprising indicates inclusion rather than limitation.

The term consisting of refers to methods and respective components thereof as described herein which are exclusive of any element not recited in that description of the embodiment.

As used herein the term an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent refers to an agent that directly or indirectly changes the local environmental factors on genes in chromosomes and chromatin and thereby alters the way the genes are expressed. As a result of its epigenetic effects on gene expression the agent synergistically enhances the cytotoxic apoptotic effects of chemotherapy drugs. For example an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent is a statin that indirectly changes the methylation on LSD1 and LSD2 mediated gene expression.

As used herein the term enhance drug efficacy with reference to an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent or a statin or an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 refers to the agent inhibitor statin synergistically increasing the desired therapeutic effects of the drug. Wherein the drug is a chemotherapy drug with cytotoxic apoptotic effects the agent inhibitor statin would increase the cytotoxic apoptotic effects of the chemotherapy drug. In one embodiment the increase is at least 5 over the drug efficacy or cytotoxic apoptotic effects of the drug noted in the absence of the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent or a statin or an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2. In one embodiment the enhance drug efficacy would mean that less chemotherapy drug would need to be administered to the subject. In one embodiment the enhance drug efficacy would mean that the subject would experience less toxic side effects of the drug with the administration of a less amount of the drug.

As used herein the term promotes chemo protection and reducing chemo resistance with reference to an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent or a statin or an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 refers to the decrease development of chemotherapy resistant cancer cells in a subject after treatment with a full cycle or course of cancer chemotherapy. The decrease is at least 10 less chemotherapy resistant cancer cells compared to in the absence of the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent or a statin or an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 during a similar course of cancer chemotherapy. In one embodiment promotes chemo protection and reducing chemo resistance can refer to an increase in the time before the subject relapses again after a full cycle or course of cancer chemotherapy. The increase is at least 10 longer amount of time before symptoms indicating a cancer relapse in the subject compared to in the absence of the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent or a statin or an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 during a similar course of cancer chemotherapy.

As used herein the term chemotherapy resistant cancer or chemotherapy resistant cancer cell population refers to cancer in a subject who has relapse after at least one full cycle or course of cancer chemotherapy.

As used herein the term apoptosis refers to a natural process of self destruction in certain cells that is determined by the genes and can be initiated by a stimulus or by removal of a repressor agent e.g. an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2. Apoptosis is also known as programmed cell death. Several biochemical events lead to characteristic cell changes morphology and death. These changes include but are not limited to cell blebbing cell shrinkage nuclear fragmentation chromatin condensation and chromosomal DNA fragmentation. Analysis of apoptosis can be performed by any method known in the art and as described in the Example Section non limiting examples include cell free apoptotic assay DNA fragmentation assay DNA laddering assay terminal transferase dUTP nick end labeling TUNEL assay and Annexin A5 or annexin V detection. The DNA can be labeled with propidium iodide or 7 AAD and analysed by flow cytometry.

As used herein in one embodiment the term an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 refers to any molecule that inhibits the enzymatic activity of LSD1 and or and a LSD2. In one embodiment the enzymatic activity of LSD1 2 is the demethylation of mono and di methylated lysines specifically histone 3 lysines 4 and 9 H3K4 and H3K9 . Analysis of the enzymatic activity of LSD1 2 and an inhibitor of such activity can be assayed by any method known in the art including the method described in the Example Section. For example the method described by Y. Tsukada and K. I. Nakayama Cold Spring Harb. Protoc. 2010 protocol 5512 and by using the LSD1 Inhibitor Screening Assay Kit for Lysine Specific Demethylase 1 by Cayman Chemical catalog 700120.

As used herein the term inhibit or inhibition with respect to an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 means the reduction or prevention of demethylation of mono and di methylated lysines by LSD1 2. Inhibition includes slowing the rate of non methylated or mono methylated enzymatic end products. The reduction can by about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 60 about 70 about 80 about 90 about 100 compared to a control which is an assay conducted in the absence of the inhibitor.

As used herein the term statin refers to any of a class of lipid lowering drugs that reduce serum cholesterol levels by inhibiting HMG CoA reductase a key enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol the mevalonate pathway or HMG CoA reductase pathway. Non limiting examples include fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin pravastatin atorvastatin and rosuvastatin.

A cancer in a subject refers to the presence of cells possessing characteristics typical of cancer causing cells such as uncontrolled proliferation immortality metastatic potential rapid growth and proliferation rate and certain characteristic morphological features. Often cancer cells will be in the form of a tumor but such cells may exist alone within a subject or may be a non tumorigenic cancer cell such as a leukemia cell. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to breast cancer a melanoma adrenal gland cancer biliary tract cancer bladder cancer brain or central nervous system cancer bronchus cancer blastoma carcinoma a chondrosarcoma cancer of the oral cavity or pharynx cervical cancer colon cancer colorectal cancer esophageal cancer gastrointestinal cancer glioblastoma hepatic carcinoma hepatoma kidney cancer leukemia liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma non small cell lung cancer osteosarcoma ovarian cancer pancreas cancer peripheral nervous system cancer prostate cancer sarcoma salivary gland cancer small bowel or appendix cancer small cell lung cancer squamous cell cancer stomach cancer testis cancer thyroid cancer urinary bladder cancer uterine or endometrial cancer and vulval cancer.

As used herein the term tumor means a mass of transformed cells that are characterized by neoplastic uncontrolled cell multiplication and at least in part by containing angiogenic vasculature. The abnormal neoplastic cell growth is rapid and continues even after the stimuli that initiated the new growth has ceased. The term tumor is used broadly to include the tumor parenchymal cells as well as the supporting stroma including the angiogenic blood vessels that infiltrate the tumor parenchymal cell mass. Although a tumor generally is a malignant tumor i.e. a cancer having the ability to metastasize i.e. a metastatic tumor a tumor also can be nonmalignant i.e. non metastatic tumor . Tumors are hallmarks of cancer a neoplastic disease the natural course of which is fatal. Cancer cells exhibit the properties of invasion and metastasis and are highly anaplastic.

As used herein the term cancer therapy refers to a therapy useful in treating cancer. Examples of anti cancer therapeutic agents include but are not limited to e.g. surgery chemotherapeutic agents immunotherapy growth inhibitory agents cytotoxic agents agents used in radiation therapy anti angiogenesis agents apoptotic agents anti tubulin agents and other agents to treat cancer such as anti HER 2 antibodies e.g. HERCEPTIN anti CD20 antibodies an epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR antagonist e.g. a tyrosine kinase inhibitor HER1 EGFR inhibitor e.g. erlotinib TARCEVA platelet derived growth factor inhibitors e.g. GLEEVEC Imatinib Mesylate a COX 2 inhibitor e.g. celecoxib interferons cytokines antagonists e.g. neutralizing antibodies that bind to one or more of the following targets ErbB2 ErbB3 ErbB4 PDGFR beta BlyS APRIL BCMA or VEGF receptor s TRAIL Apo2 and other bioactive and organic chemical agents etc. Combinations thereof are also contemplated for use with the methods described herein.

In one embodiment administration and treatment as it applies to a subject refers to the contact of an exogenous pharmaceutical therapeutic or composition to the subject. In another embodiment administration and treatment as it applies to a subject refers to the contact of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 or a statin to the subject.

In one embodiment as used herein the term treat or treatment refers to reducing or alleviating at least one adverse clinical symptom associated with cancer e.g. pain swelling low blood count etc. In another embodiment the term treat or treatment refers to slowing or reversing the progression neoplastic uncontrolled cell multiplication i.e. shrinking existing tumors and or halting tumor growth. In another embodiment the term treat or treatment refers to inducing apoptosis in cancer or tumor cells in the subject.

As used herein the term a therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount sufficient to achieve the intended purpose of treating cancer. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 or a statin or a composition described herein for a method of treating cancer is an amount of sufficient to induce apoptosis of cancer cells of the subject as compared to in the absent of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 or a statin or a composition respectively. In other embodiments the amount that is safe and sufficient to treat delay the development of a tumor and or delay further growth of the tumor. In some embodiments the amount can thus cure or result in amelioration of the symptoms of cancer and tumor growth slow the course of cancer progression slow or inhibit a symptom of cancer slow or inhibit the establishment of secondary symptoms of cancer or inhibit the development of a secondary symptom of the cancer. For example an effective amount of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 or a statin or a composition described herein can inhibits tumor further growth cause a reduction in size or even completely halt tumor growth shrink the sizes of tumor even complete regression of tumor and reduce clinical symptoms associated with tumor. An effective amount for treating cancer is an amount of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2 or a statin or a composition described herein sufficient to result in a reduction or complete removal of the symptoms of the disorder disease or medical condition. An effective amount for treating or ameliorating a disorder disease or medical condition is an amount sufficient to result in a reduction or complete removal of the symptoms of the disorder disease or medical condition. The effective amount of a given therapeutic agent will vary with factors such as the nature of the agent the route of administration the size and species of the animal to receive the therapeutic agent and the purpose of the administration. Thus it is not possible or prudent to specify an exact therapeutically effective amount . However for any given case an appropriate effective amount can be determined by a skilled artisan according to established methods in the art using only routine experimentation.

Unless otherwise explained all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs. Definitions of common terms in molecular biology may be found in Benjamin Lewin Genes IX published by Jones Bartlett Publishing 2007 ISBN 13 9780763740634 Kendrew et al. eds. The Encyclopedia of Molecular Biology published by Blackwell Science Ltd. 1994 ISBN 0 632 02182 9 and Robert A. Meyers ed. Molecular Biology and Biotechnology a Comprehensive Desk Reference published by VCH Publishers Inc. 1995 ISBN 1 56081 569 8 . Further unless otherwise required by context singular terms shall include pluralities and plural terms shall include the singular.

Unless otherwise stated the various embodiments of the disclosure was performed using standard procedures known to one skilled in the art for example in Maniatis et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. USA 1982 Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2 ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. USA 1989 Davis et al. Basic Methods in Molecular Biology Elsevier Science Publishing Inc. New York USA 1986 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology CPMB Fred M. Ausubel et al. ed. John Wiley and Sons Inc. Current Protocols in Immunology CPI John E. Coligan et. al. ed. John Wiley and Sons Inc. Current Protocols in Cell Biology CPCB Juan S. Bonifacino et. al. ed. John Wiley and Sons Inc. Culture of Animal Cells A Manual of Basic Technique by R. Ian Freshney Publisher Wiley Liss 5th edition 2005 Animal Cell Culture Methods Methods in Cell Biology Vol. 57 Jennie P. Mather and David Barnes editors Academic Press 1st edition 1998 Methods in Molecular biology Vol. 180 which are all herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

It should be understood that various embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to the particular methodology protocols and reagents etc. described herein and as such may vary. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is defined solely by the claims.

Other than in the operating examples or where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be understood as modified in all instances by the term about. The term about when used in connection with percentages will mean 1 .

All patents and publications identified are expressly incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing for example the methodologies described in such publications that might be used in connection with the present invention. These publications are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing in this regard should be construed as an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of these documents is based on the information available to the applicants and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are based on the discovery that the common cholesterol lowing drugs statins inhibit histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 and induces cell death in the human cancer cell such as Hela cells. The cell death apoptosis is not mitigated by mevalonate the by product of HMG CoA reductase the target of statins in the mevalonate pathway or HMG CoA reductase pathway. Moreover several cancer cell lines have elevated expression of LSD1 and or LSD2 e.g. neuroblastoma hepatocellular carcinoma metastatic carcinoma and metastatic melanoma see . Accordingly inhibiting the activity of LSD1 and or LSD2 can be used to induce apoptosis when desired for example in cancer and tumor treatment. Moreover epigenetically altering the regulation of expression of genes in chromosomes can affect the outcome of cancer and tumor treatment in a subject for example enhance the cancer drug efficacy promote chemo protection and reduce the development of chemo resistance cancer cells.

Accordingly in one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent in conjunction with at least one chemotherapy wherein the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent promotes chemo protection and reducing chemo resistance. In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent enhance the drug efficacy of the at least one chemotherapy to promotes chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for enhancing the drug efficacy of at least one cancer chemotherapy in a subject to promote chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject comprising administering to the subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one an epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent in conjunction with the at least one chemotherapy.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating chemotherapy resistant cancer in a subject the method comprising determining whether chemotherapy resistant cancer cell population of the subject are susceptible to an epigenetic modulating agent and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the epigenetic modulating agents wherein the agent treats chemotherapy resistant cancer in the subject by inducing apoptosis of the chemotherapy resistant cancer cells and wherein the apoptosis induced is at least 10 compared to cancer cells of the subject in the absence of the epigenetic modulating agent.

In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent is an inhibitor of a histone demethylase e.g. histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 . In one embodiment the at least one chemotherapy is an alkylating chemotherapeutic drug. In one embodiment the alkylating chemotherapeutic drug is an alkylating antineoplastic agent. In one embodiment the alkylating antineoplastic agent attaches an alkyl group CH to DNA. In one embodiment the alkylating antineoplastic agent is selected from the group consisting of cyclophosphamide uramustine melphalan chlorambucil ifosfamide carmnnustine lomustine streptozocin busulfan cisplatin carboplatin nedaplatin oxaliplatin satraplatin triplatin tetranitrate procarbazine altretamine dacarbazine mitozolomide temozolomide and temozolomide.

In one embodiment the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent enhance the drug efficacy of the at least one chemotherapy to promotes chemo protection and reducing the development of chemo resistance cancer cells in the subject. In one embodiment the enhancement of the chemo drug efficacy is at least 5 over a control level. In other embodiments the enhancement of the chemo drug efficacy is at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 99 at least 100 over a control level.

In one embodiment the control level is the drug efficacy of the chemotherapy drug in the absence of the epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent being administered to the subject.

In one embodiment cancer cells can be treated with various statins to determine in vitro or ex vivo the cytotoxic apoptotic efficacy of the tested statin. In one embodiment the cytotoxic apoptotic efficacy of the tested statin can be assessed by specifically testing the histone code alterations and or expression level changes on the LSD1 or LSD2 target genes.

Cancer cells can be obtained from a subject diagnosed with or suspected of having cancer. For example cancer cells can be obtained from a tissue biopsy or an excised tumor during a routine surgery to remove cancerous tumors.

Cancer cells are maintained in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium with 10 fetal calf serum. At the time of treatment cells are twice with PBS and incubated with vehicle fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin or pravastatin at the dose ranges from 2 to 10 M. The cells are harvested for RNA and CHIP analyses after 24 hour or 72 hour incubation. Cancer cells are incubated with various concentrations of statins for 1 week for soft agar assays. Cells 5 10 are suspended in 3 ml of medium DMEM supplemented with 2 g ml insulin and 10 fetal calf serum containing 0.3 agar. The mixture is added over a layer of 0.5 agar in DMEM on a 60 mm plate. Three weeks later plates are stained with the vital stain 2 p isodophenyl 3 p nitrophenyl 5 phenyltertazolium chloride hydrate for 2 days. Colonies larger than 0.15 mm in diameter are scored. For cell proliferation assays cells are performed using Cell Counting Kit 8 Dojindo Molecular Technologies following the manufacturer s protocol.

For gene analysis Chromatin Immunoprecipitation ChIP Analysis and Quantitative Real time RT PCR assays can be used. Briefly ChIP assays were carried out using EZ ChIP Kit Upstate 17 371 according to manufacturer s instructions with modifications. Briefly after treatment with 1 formaldehyde cells were harvested and sonicated in the ChIP lysis buffer to produce soluble chromatin with average sizes between 300 1000 bp. The chromatin samples were pre cleaned for 1 hour using salmon sperm DNA protein G agarose beads Upstate . Rabbit anti LSD1 Upstate 07 705 anti H3K4Me2 Upstate 07 030 or control antibodies Santa Cruz sc2027 were used for each ChIP. The antibody chromatin complexes were immunoprecipitated with salmon sperm DNA pre absorbed protein G agarose beads. After extensive washing bound chromatin was eluted de crosslinked and purified using QIAquick PCR Purification Kit Qiagen . Relative abundance of targets of interest was quantified by real time PCR. ChIP primer sequences are as follows SCN2A 2F 5 cgtgtttcaaggctacagca 3 SEQ ID NO 1 SCN2A 2R 5 ctctagcctcccaaccttcc 3 SEQ ID NO 2 SYN1 RE F 5 tgggtfttaggaccaggatg 3 SEQ ID NO 3 SYN1 RE R 5 ggtgctgaagctggcagt 3 SEQ ID NO 4 . For Quantitative Real time RT PCR total mRNA was extracted from 2 106 cultured Hela cells using the RNeasy Mini Kit Qiagen Sciences Germantown Md. . After DNase treatment cDNA was synthesized from RNA with the First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit Amersham Buckinghamshire UK . PCR amplification reactions were performed with CyberGreen reagent Qiagen Sciences for SYN1 and SCN2A. Primers used in RT PCR were as follows SYN1 forward 5 cgtgcgtgtccagaagattg 3 SEQ ID NO 5 reverse 5 tgtgatcccttccgtccttg 3 SEQ ID NO 6 SCN2A forward 5 gatgaggatgatgaaaatggc 3 SEQ ID NO 7 reverse 5 ctaattttctaatagggttgaaggg 3 SEQ ID NO 8 . Gene expression of IL 6 and actin was detected by Taqman Gene Expression Assays Applied Biosystems using the ABI Prism 7000 Sequence Detection System. The primers for IL 6 and were purchased from Applied Biosystems. CT method was used to determine mRNA levels. Target gene expression was normalized to actin levels.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for assessing the susceptible of a cancer cell population to at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent comprising providing a population of cancer cells derived from a subject contacting the cells with at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent and measuring the methylation on H3K4Me2 containing DNA sequences wherein an increase in methylation on H3K4Me2 containing DNA sequences indicate that the cancer cell population is susceptible to the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent. In one embodiment the increase is at least 10 over a control level which is methylation on H3K4Me2 containing DNA sequences in cells not treated with the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent.

In one embodiment as used herein the term susceptible to the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent with respect to cancer cell population means that the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent effects epigenetic changes to the genome of the cancer cell as measured by an increase in methylation on H3K4Me2 containing DNA sequences in the genome of the cancer cells. In another embodiment the term susceptible to the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent means that the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent effects epigenetic changes to the genome of the cancer cell as measured by an increase in increased apoptosis in the population of cancer cells.

In one embodiment the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent is a statin. In one embodiment the at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent is an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a kit for assessing the susceptible of a cancer cell population to at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent comprising at least one epigenetic modulating adjuvant agent at least one anti LSD1 antibody and at least one anti H3K4Me2 antibody. In one embodiment the kit further comprises PCR primers comprising SCN2A 2F 5 cgtgtttcaaggctacagca 3 SEQ. ID. NO 1 SCN2A 2R 5 ctctagcctcccaaccttcc 3 SEQ. ID. NO 2 SYN1 RE F 5 tgggttttaggaccaggatg 3 SEQ. ID. NO 3 SYN1 RE R 5 ggtgctgaagctggcagt 3 SEQ. ID. NO 4 .

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of a histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 and or and a histone lysine specific demethylase 2 LSD2 .

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or and a LSD2.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising at least one statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2.

In one embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a statin wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the statin.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a composition comprising at least one statin wherein cancer cells of the subject has been determined to be susceptible to apoptosis induced by the at least one statin in the composition.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein the inhibitor treats cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 and if so administering to the subject a composition comprising the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 wherein the inhibitor treats cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by a statin and if so administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the statin wherein the statin treats cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the disclosure herein provides a method for treating cancer in a subject the method comprising first determining whether cancer cells of the subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by at least one statin and if so administering to the subject a composition comprising the at least one statin wherein the statin treats cancer in the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin induces apoptosis in the cancer cells of the subject.

Statins or 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are the most commonly used drugs for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and have well established roles in reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases 1 8 . A growing body of evidence suggests emerging therapeutic roles for statins in cancer 9 13 14 . It is clear that statins have pleiotropic activities that may influence a number of cellular processes. For example studies have indicated that by limiting the biosynthesis of mevalonate statins can inhibit the production of downstream lipid isoprenoid intermediates such as farnesyl PPi and geranylgeranyl PPi important substrate precursors of post translational prenylation for a number of proteins including Ras Rho and Rac small G proteins 15 16 17 . As a result the inhibition of prenylation of these proteins may affect G protein mediated signaling pathways which likely in turn regulate inflammatory responsiveness 10 . However the underlying mechanism s for the pleiotropic effects of statins is still largely elusive. This is in part due to difficulties in ascribing all cellular effects to statin mediated inhibition of HMG CoA reductase and the reduction of downstream isoprenoid intermediates. Some hypotheses regarding the anti tumor effect of statins have been raised including that tumor cells may have lipid abnormalities and pro inflammatory phenotypes 18 19 20 21 . Thus identifying novel cellular targets off targets of statins is critical in further understanding their role in cancer biology and broadening their future clinical applications.

At the same time there are conflicting data suggesting that statins increased one s risk of developing cancer. Studies have found that use of any statin drug in any amount was associated with a significantly increased risk for prostate cancer. In addition there was an increasing risk that came along with an increasing cumulative dose.

The dynamics of chromatin structure and the modifications of histones which are coordinated by protein complexes containing multiple enzymatic activities are fundamental epigenetic events underlying eukaryotic gene regulation. Among the post translational modifications methylation of histone proteins was long been considered to be an irreversible modification until recently in 2004 lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 the first and founding member of histone lysine demethylase family were discovered 22 .

The first was histone lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 KDM1 which is an flavin dependent monoamine oxidase which can demethylate mono and di methylated lysines specifically histone 3 lysines 4 and 9 H3K4 and H3K9 . This enzyme cannot demethylate tri methylated lysines and for a short while it was thought that tri methylated lysines may indeed be permanent modifications.

In late 2005 the Jumonji domain containing JmjC histone demethylases were discovered which are able to demethylate mono di or tri methylated lysines thereby disproving the theory that histone methylation is permanent once and for all. Although this conclusion has since come into question. Two specific JmjC histone demethylases are PHF8 and JHDM1D.

Currently nearly 30 human lysine demethylases have been identified and the number is growing. The lysine specific demethylases LSDs LSD1 and LSD2 are homologous to monoamine oxidases and demethylate mono and dimethyl lysine residues respectively 23 24 . Consistent with the known dual functionality of LSD1 on both gene repression and activation recent studies have shown that LSD1 plays crucial and versatile roles in controlling chromatin organization gene regulation hormone signaling stem cell differentiation and embryonic development 25 38 . Recent data have shown that LSD1 plays an important role in carcinogenesis. For example tumor suppressor genes p53 and Rb are regulated by LSD1 39 40 LSD1 is required for maintenance of global DNA methylation by regulating DNA methyltransferase DNMT1 41 and overexpression of LSD1 is observed in various types of cancers including neuroblastoma prostate breast and bladder cancers in which they repress transcription of repair pathways 39 and 42 . Additionally LSD2 is a candidate cancer related gene located at chromosome 6p22 a genomic region with a high incidence of chromosomal translocations deletions or amplifications in multiple cancer types 43 44 . Thus LSD1 2 are important new targets for the development of specific inhibitors as a new class of anti tumor drugs.

To date few existing compounds have been shown to act as LSD1 2 inhibitors. LSD1 catalyzed histone demethylation occurs through a FAD coenzyme mediated two step electron transfer oxidation mechanism 22 30 . This mechanism is very similar to that involved in amine oxidation by mono or polyamine oxidases 45 47 . Recently classical monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOI pygrine phenelzine and tranylcypromine were reported to inhibit LSD1 activity 26 28 48 49 . Two recent studies demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of LSD1 and LSD2 combined with HDAC inhibitors induces apoptotic tumor cell death synergistically in glioblastoma 50 and breast cancer 51 . Thereafter a few compounds such as tranylcypromine derivatives and analogues have been synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors of LSD1 52 53 urea and LSD2 54 .

The analysis of whether cancer cells from a subject are susceptible to apoptosis induced by an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a statin can be performed by any method known in the art or as described in the Example Section. For example a tissue sample is taken from the subject and the tissue sample is contacted with an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a statin for a period of time after which an apoptosis assay is performed. In one embodiment the tissue sample is a tumor sample. In another embodiment the tissue sample contains cancerous cells. In another embodiment the tissue sample contains leukemia cells.

As used herein a tissue sample refers to a portion piece part segment or fraction of a tissue which is obtained or removed from an intact tissue of a subject preferably a human subject. In one embodiment the tissue sample is a blood sample. In another embodiment the tissue sample is a bone marrow sample. In one embodiment the tissue sample is a cerebrospinal fluid sample.

As used herein a tumor sample refers to a portion piece part segment or fraction of a tumor for example a tumor which is obtained or removed from a subject e.g. removed or extracted from a tissue of a subject preferably a human subject.

In one embodiment the tissue sample is obtained from a biopsy procedure in the subject. In another embodiment the tissue sample is obtained from a surgical procedure to remove a tumor mass from the subject.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the method of determining whether cancer cells from a subject are susceptible to apoptosis comprises contacting a tissue sample comprising cancer cells obtained from the subject with an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a statin described herein for a period of time and subsequently analyzing the apoptotic level of the cells of the contacted tissue wherein if the apoptotic level is at least 10 above a control level i.e. in the absence of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin the cancer cells are deemed susceptible to the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin tested.

In one embodiment the method of determining whether cancer cells from a subject are susceptible to apoptosis further comprises providing a tissue sample comprising cancer cells obtained from the subject. A skilled physician or surgeon will be able to obtain a tissue biopsy or excised a tumor from a subject.

In one embodiment the contacting period is at least one hour. In one embodiment the contact period is at least one hour to 24 hours. In other embodiments the contact period is at least two at least three at least four at least five at least six at least seven at least eight at least nine at least 10 at least 11 at least 12 at least 13 at least 14 at least 15 at least 16 at least 17 at least 18 at least 19 at least 20 at least 21 at least 22 at least 23 or at least 24 hours. In one embodiment the contact period is between one hour and 24 hours. In other embodiments the contact period is two three four five six seven eight nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 or 24 hours including all the time periods between one to 24 hours to the minute. In other embodiments the contacting period is between 24 72 hrs including all the time periods between 24 72 hours to the half hour.

In one embodiment the control level is the apoptotic level measured in the cancer cells derived from the same tissue sample of the subject and these cells have not been contacted with an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a statin for the same period of contact exposure time as the experimented cancer cells. In other words all conditions are kept identical to the experimented cancer cells except the control cancer cells are not contacted with an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a statin. In one embodiment in place of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or the statin the carrier medium of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is used instead.

In some embodiments by all conditions are kept identical to the experimented cancer cells means that the control cancer cells are obtained from the same tissue sample as the experimented cancer cells and at the same time the control cancer cells are cultured in the same environment and media as the experimented cancer cells the control cancer cells are mock treated with the same carrier medium of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin but the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is not included the control cancer cells are incubated for the same period of contact exposure time and are then analyzed by the same apoptosis assay as the experimented cancer cells. In one embodiment by all conditions are kept identical to the experimented cancer cells means that the control cancer cells and the experimented cancer cells are tested simultaneously. In another embodiment by all conditions are kept identical to the experimented cancer cells means that the control cancer cells and the experimented cancer cells are tested at a different time point after the tissue sample has been excised from the subject.

As used herein experimented cancer cells refer to the cancer cells that are contacted with the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin. The inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is applied to the cancer cells in at least one carrier or medium.

As used herein control cancer cells refer to the cancer cells that are contacted with the at least one carrier or medium used for contacting the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin with the experimented cancer cells but the inhibitor is not included. In other words the control cancer cells is contacted with the carrier or medium but is not contacted with the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin of the experimented cancer cells. In other words the control cancer cells are mock contacted with the same at least one carrier or medium only.

In one embodiment of any method described herein apoptosis induced in the tested or experimented cancer cells from the subject is at least 10 compared to the control cancer cells of the subject in the absence of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin. In some embodiments the apoptosis induced at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 25 at least 30 at least 35 at least 40 at least 45 at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 at least 65 at least 70 at least 75 at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 at least 95 at least 99 at least 100 including all the integer percent between 10 to 100 .

In one embodiment of any method described herein apoptosis is measured by any method known in the art or as described herein in the Example Section. In another embodiment of any method described herein the apoptosis is measured by a method selected from the group consisting of cell free apoptotic assay DNA fragmentation assay DNA laddering assay annexin V staining and terminal transferase dUTP nick end labeling TUNEL assay. In some embodiments apoptosis is analysed by any commercially available apoptosis assay kits e.g. the Multi Parameter Apoptosis Assay Kit by Cayman Chemical catalog 600330 and the cytochrome C releasing Apoptosis Assay Kit by ABCAM catalog ab65311.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a statin. In another embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a not a statin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin is selected from the group consisting of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin pravastatin atorvastatin and rosuvastatin. In one embodiment of any method described herein the statin is fluvastatin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein a combination of more than one statin is administered or included in the composition administered for cancer therapy. For example fluvastatin and atorvastatin fluvastatin and lovastatin fluvastatin and simvastatin fluvastatin and mevastatin fluvastatin and pravastatin or fluvastatin and rosuvastatin.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors MAOIs are a class of medications prescribed for the treatment of depression.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the monoamine oxidase inhibitor is tranylcypromine derivatives or analogues thereof.

Derivatives as used herein include a chemically modified compound wherein the modification is considered routine by the ordinary skilled chemist such as additional chemical moieties e.g. an ester or an amide of an acid protecting groups such as a benzyl group for an alcohol or thiol and tert butoxycarbonyl group for an amine . Derivatives also include radioactively labeled inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 conjugates of inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 e.g. biotin or avidin with enzymes such as horseradish peroxidase and the like with bioluminescent agents chemoluminescent agents or fluorescent agents . Additionally moieties may be added to the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or a portion thereof to increase half life in vivo. Derivatives as used herein also encompasses analogs such as a compound that comprises a chemically modified form of a specific compound or class thereof and that maintains the pharmaceutical and or pharmacological activities characteristic of said compound or class are also encompassed in the present invention. In one embodiment derivatives as used herein also encompasses prodrugs of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 which are known to enhance numerous desirable qualities of pharmaceuticals e.g. solubility bioavailability manufacturing etc. .

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is selected from the group consisting of safrazine parygline nialamide mebanazine isocarboxazid iprocozide clorygline cimoxatone and beflomatone and derivatives or analogues thereof.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a compound selected from the group consisting of the phenylcyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2010143582 and the cyclopropylamine derivatives of WO 2012013727.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is formulated to be administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapeutic to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered in conjunction with retinoic acid.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 further comprises at least one additional cancer therapeutic.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the composition comprising an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 further comprises retinoic acid.

In one embodiment of any method described herein wherein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of radiation therapy chemotherapy immunotherapy and gene therapy.

In other embodiments of any method described herein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of growth inhibitory agents cytotoxic agents anti angiogenesis agents apoptotic agents anti tubulin agents anti HER 2 antibodies anti CD20 antibodies an epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR antagonist a HER1 EGFR inhibitor a platelet derived growth factor inhibitor a COX 2 inhibitor an interferon and a cytokine e.g. G CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor .

In other embodiments of any method described herein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of 13 cis retinoic acid 2 CdA 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine 5 Azacitidine azacytidine 5 Fluorouracil 5 FU 6 Mercaptopurine 6 MP 6 TG 6 Thioguanine abiraterone acetate Abraxane Accutane Actinomycin D Adriamycin Adrucil Afinitor Agrylin Ala Cort Aldesleukin Alemtuzumab ALIMTA Alitretinoin Alkaban AQ Alkeran All transretinoic Acid Alpha Interferon Altretamine Amethopterin Amifostine Aminoglutethimide Anagrelide Anandron Anastrozole Arabinosylcytosine Ara C Aranesp Aredia Arimidex Aromasin Arranon Arsenic Trioxide Arzerra Asparaginase ATRA Avastin Axitinib Azacitidine BCG BCNU Bendamustine Bevacizumab Bexarotene BEXXAR Bicalutamide BiCNU Blenoxane Bleomycin Bortezomib Busulfan Busulfex C225 Cabazitaxel Calcium Leucovorin Campath Camptosar Camptothecin 11 Capecitabine Caprelsa Carac Carboplatin Carmnnustine Carmnnustine Wafer Casodex CC 5013 CCI 779 CCNU CDDP CeeNU Cerubidine Cetuximab Chlorambucil Cisplatin Citrovorum Factor Cladribine Cortisone Cosmegen CPT 11 Crizotinib Cyclophosphamide Cytadren Cytarabine Cytarabine Liposomal Cytosar U Cytoxan Dacarbazine Dacogen Dactinomycin Darbepoetin Alfa Dasatinib Daunomycin Daunorubicin Daunorubicin Hydrochloride Daunorubicin Liposomal DaunoXome Decadron Decitabine Delta Cortef Deltasone Denileukin Diftitox Denosumab DepoCyt Dexamethasone Dexamethasone Acetate Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Dexasone Dexrazoxane DHAD DIC Diodex Docetaxel Doxil Doxorubicin Doxorubicin Liposomal Droxia DTIC DTIC Dome Duralone Eculizumab Efudex Eligard Ellence Eloxatin Elspar Emcyt Epirubicin Epoetin Alpha Erbitux Eribulin Erlotinib Erwinia L asparaginase Estramustine Ethyol Etopophos Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate Eulexin Everolimus Evista Exemestane Fareston Faslodex Femara Filgrastim Floxuridine Fludara Fludarabine Fluoroplex Fluorouracil Fluorouracil cream Fluoxymesterone Flutamide Folinic Acid FUDR Fulvestrant Gefitinib Gemcitabine Gemtuzumab ozogamicin Gemzar Gleevec Gliadel Wafer Goserelin Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor G CSF Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor GM CSF Halaven Halotestin Herceptin Hexadrol Hexylen Hexamethylmelamine HMM Hycamtin Hydrea Hydrocort Acetate Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Sodium Phosphate Hydrocortisone Sodium Succinate Hydrocortone Phosphate Hydroxyurea Ibritumomab Ibritumomab Tiuxetan Idamycin Idarubicin Ifex IFN alpha Ifosfamide IL 11 IL 2 Imatinib mesylate Imidazole Carboxamide Inlyta Interferon alpha Interferon Alpha 2b PEG Conjugate Interleukin 2 Interleukin 11 Intron A interferon alpha 2b Ipilimumab Iressa Irinotecan Isotretinoin Ixabepilone Ixempra Jevtana Kidrolase t Lanacort Lapatinib L asparaginase LCR Lenalidomide Letrozole Leucovorin Leukeran Leukine Leuprolide Leurocristine Leustatin Liposomal Ara C Liquid Pred Lomustine L PAM L Sarcolysin Lupron Lupron Depot Matulane Maxidex Mechlorethamine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Medralone Medrol Megace Megestrol Megestrol Acetate Melphalan Mercaptopurine Mesna Mesnex Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methylprednisolone Meticorten Mitomycin Mitomycin C Mitoxantrone M Prednisol MTC MTX Mustargen Mustine Mutamycin Myleran Mylocel Mylotarg Navelbine Nelarabine Neosar Neulasta Neumega Neupogen Nexavar Nilandron Nilotinib Nilutamide Nipent Nitrogen Mustard Novaldex Novantrone Nplate Octreotide Octreotide acetate Ofatumumab Oncospar Oncovin Ontak Onxal Oprelvekin Orapred Orasone Oxaliplatin Paclitaxel Paclitaxel Protein bound Pamidronate Panitumumab Panretin Paraplatin Pazopanib Pediapred PEG Interferon Pegaspargase Pegfilgrastim PEG INTRON PEG L asparaginase PEMETREXED Pentostatin Phenylalanine Mustard Platinol Platinol AQ Prednisolone Prednisone Prelone Procarbazine PROCRIT Proleukin Prolia Prolifeprospan 20 with Cannustine Implant Provenge Purinethol Raloxifene Revlimid Rheumatrex Rituxan Rituximab Roferon A Interferon Alfa 2a Romiplostim Rubex Rubidomycin hydrochloride Sandostatin Sandostatin LAR Sargramostim Sipuleucel T Soliris Solu Cortef Solu Medrol Sorafenib SPRYCEL STI 571 Streptozocin SU11248 Sunitinib Sutent Tamoxifen Tarceva Targretin Tasigna Taxol Taxotere Temodar Temozolomide Temsirolimus Teniposide TESPA Thalidomide Thalomid TheraCys Thioguanine Thioguanine Tabloid Thiophosphoamide Thioplex Thiotepa TICE Toposar Topotecan Toremifene Torisel Tositumomab Trastuzumab Treanda Tretinoin Trexall Trisenox TSPA TYKERB Valrubicin Valstar vandetanib VCR Vectibix Velban Velcade Vemurafenib VePesid Vesanoid Viadur Vidaza Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate Vincasar Pfs Vincristine Vinorelbine Vinorelbine tartrate VLB VM 26 Vorinostat Votrient VP 16 Vumon Xalkori capsules Xeloda Xgeva Yervoy Zanosar Zelboraf Zevalin Zinecard Zoladex Zoledronic acid Zolinza Zometa and Zytiga .

In one embodiment of any method described herein the method further comprises administering a drug that treats at least one symptom of cancer or cancer therapy. For example for low blood count or anemia resulting from the chemo or radiation therapy erythropoietin can be administered to promote de novo the production of blood cell cells.

In one embodiment of any method described herein wherein the subject is a mammal. In another embodiment the subject is a primate mammal. In other embodiment the subject is human.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin or the composition further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment of any method described herein the method further comprises selecting a subject who has cancer or has been diagnose with cancer. The subject can be screened for cancer with a combination with diagnostics such as for example additional biomarkers mammography manual examination MRI or tissue biopsy and histopathological examination. A skilled oncologist or physician will be able to differentially diagnosis cancer using medical diagnostic methods known within the art.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 retinoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 can be a statin or a non statin molecule. For example fluvastatin and gefitinib fluvastatin and Taxol fluvastatin and crizotinib fluvastatin and bexarotene fluvastatin and azacitidine fluvastatin and tamoxifen fluvastatin and panitumumab fluvastatin and vinorelbine tartrate tranylcypromine and gefitinib tranylcypromine and Taxol tranylcypromine and crizotinib tranylcypromine and bexarotene tranylcypromine and azacitidine tranylcypromine and tamoxifen tranylcypromine and panitumumab tranylcypromine and vinorelbine tartrate a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and gefitinib a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and Taxol a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and crizotinib a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and bexarotene a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and azacitidine a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and tamoxifen a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and panitumumab a phenylcyclopropylamine derivative and vinorelbine tartrate a cyclopropylamine derivative and gefitinib a cyclopropylamine derivative and Taxol a cyclopropylamine derivative and crizotinib a cyclopropylamine derivative and bexarotene a cyclopropylamine derivative and azacitidine a cyclopropylamine derivative and tamoxifen a cyclopropylamine derivative and panitumumab and a cyclopropylamine derivative and vinorelbine tartrate.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least one additional cancer therapeutic retinoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least a statin and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin. For example tranylcypromine and fluvastatin tranylcypromine and lovastatin tranylcypromine and simvastatin tranylcypromine and mevastatin tranylcypromine and pravastatin tranylcypromine and atorvastatin and tranylcypromine and rosuvastatin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least a statin retinoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 at least a statin at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin. For example tranylcypromine gefitinib and fluvastatin tranylcypromine Taxol and lovastatin tranylcypromine crizotinib and simvastatin tranylcypromine bexarotene and mevastatin tranylcypromine azacitidine and pravastatin tranylcypromine tamoxifen and atorvastatin and tranylcypromine panitumumab and rosuvastatin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 retinoic acid at least a statin at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one statin at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example fluvastatin and gefitinib fluvastatin and Taxol fluvastatin and crizotinib fluvastatin and bexarotene fluvastatin and azacitidine fluvastatin and tamoxifen fluvastatin and panitumumab and fluvastatin and vinorelbine tartrate.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a composition comprising at least one statin retinoic acid at least one additional cancer therapeutic and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment of any composition described herein the composition is used for the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 for use in the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 for use in the treatment of cancer in a subject.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and at least one additional cancer therapeutic for use in the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 and a statin for use in the treatment of cancer wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides an inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 a statin and at least one additional cancer therapeutic for use in the treatment of cancer wherein the inhibitor of a LSD1 and or and a LSD2 is not a statin.

In one embodiment the disclosure described herein provides a statin for use in the treatment of cancer in a subject.

In one embodiment the statin is selected from the group consisting of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin pravastatin atorvastatin and rosuvastatin.

In one embodiment the monoamine oxidase inhibitor is tranylcypromine derivatives or analogues thereof.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 and or statin is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the composition is formulated to be administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intravitreous intratumor and parenteral administration.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the composition is administered in conjunction with retinoic acid.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the composition is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

In one embodiment of any composition described herein wherein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of radiation therapy chemotherapy immunotherapy and gene therapy.

In one embodiment of any of the composition described herein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of growth inhibitory agents cytotoxic agents anti angiogenesis agents apoptotic agents anti tubulin agents anti HER 2 antibodies anti CD20 antibodies an epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR antagonist a HER1 EGFR inhibitor a platelet derived growth factor inhibitor a COX 2 inhibitor an interferon and a cytokine e.g. G CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factor .

In other embodiments of any of the composition described herein the at least one additional cancer therapy is selected from the group consisting of 13 cis retinoic acid 2 CdA 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine 5 Azacitidine azacytidine 5 Fluorouracil 5 FU 6 Mercaptopurine 6 MP 6 TG 6 Thioguanine abiraterone acetate Abraxane Accutane Actinomycin D Adriamycin Adrucil Afinitor Agrylin Ala Cort Aldesleukin Alemtuzumab ALIMTA Alitretinoin Alkaban AQ Alkeran All transretinoic Acid Alpha Interferon Altretamine Amethopterin Amifostine Aminoglutethimide Anagrelide Anandron Anastrozole Arabinosylcytosine Ara C Aranesp Aredia Arimidex Aromasin Arranon Arsenic Trioxide Arzerra Asparaginase ATRA Avastin Axitinib Azacitidine BCG BCNU Bendamustine Bevacizumab Bexarotene BEXXAR Bicalutamide BiCNU Blenoxane Bleomycin Bortezomib Busulfan Busulfex C225 Cabazitaxel Calcium Leucovorin Campath Camptosar Camptothecin 11 Capecitabine Caprelsa Carac Carboplatin Cannustine Cannustine Wafer Casodex CC 5013 CCI 779 CCNU CDDP CeeNU Cerubidine Cetuximab Chlorambucil Cisplatin Citrovorum Factor Cladribine Cortisone Cosmegen CPT 11 Crizotinib Cyclophosphamide Cytadren Cytarabine Cytarabine Liposomal Cytosar U Cytoxan Dacarbazine Dacogen Dactinomycin Darbepoetin Alfa Dasatinib Daunomycin Daunorubicin Daunorubicin Hydrochloride Daunorubicin Liposomal DaunoXome Decadron Decitabine Delta Cortef Deltasone Denileukin Diftitox Denosumab DepoCyt Dexamethasone Dexamethasone Acetate Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Dexasone Dexrazoxane DHAD DIC Diodex Docetaxel Doxil Doxorubicin Doxorubicin Liposomal Droxia DTIC DTIC Dome Duralone Eculizumab Efudex Eligard Ellence Eloxatin Elspar Emcyt Epirubicin Epoetin Alpha Erbitux Eribulin Erlotinib L asparaginase Estramustine Ethyol Etopophos Etoposide Etoposide Phosphate Eulexin Everolimus Evista Exemestane Fareston Faslodex Femara Filgrastim Floxuridine Fludara Fludarabine Fluoroplex Fluorouracil Fluorouracil cream Fluoxymesterone Flutamide Folinic Acid FUDR Fulvestrant Gefitinib Gemcitabine Gemtuzumab ozogamicin Gemzar Gleevec Gliadel Wafer Goserelin Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor G CSF Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor GM CSF Halaven Halotestin Herceptin Hexadrol Hexylen Hexamethylmelamine HMM Hycamtin Hydrea Hydrocort Acetate Hydrocortisone Hydrocortisone Sodium Phosphate Hydrocortisone Sodium Succinate Hydrocortone Phosphate Hydroxyurea Ibritumomab Ibritumomab Tiuxetan Idamycin Idarubicin Ifex IFN alpha Ifosfamide IL 11 IL 2 Imatinib mesylate Imidazole Carboxamide Inlyta Interferon alpha Interferon Alpha 2b PEG Conjugate Interleukin 2 Interleukin 11 Intron A interferon alpha 2b Ipilimumab Iressa Irinotecan Isotretinoin Ixabepilone Ixempra Jevtana Kidrolase t Lanacort Lapatinib L asparaginase LCR Lenalidomide Letrozole Leucovorin Leukeran Leukine Leuprolide Leurocristine Leustatin Liposomal Ara C Liquid Pred Lomustine L PAM L Sarcolysin Lupron Lupron Depot Matulane Maxidex Mechlorethamine Mechlorethamine Hydrochloride Medralone Medrol Megace Megestrol Megestrol Acetate Melphalan Mercaptopurine Mesna Mesnex Methotrexate Methotrexate Sodium Methylprednisolone Meticorten Mitomycin Mitomycin C Mitoxantrone M Prednisol MTC MTX Mustargen Mustine Mutamycin Myleran Mylocel Mylotarg Navelbine Nelarabine Neosar Neulasta Neumega Neupogen Nexavar Nilandron Nilotinib Nilutamide Nipent Nitrogen Mustard Novaldex Novantrone Nplate Octreotide Octreotide acetate Ofatumumab Oncospar Oncovin Ontak Onxal Oprelvekin Orapred Orasone Oxaliplatin Paclitaxel Paclitaxel Protein bound Pamidronate Panitumumab Panretin Paraplatin Pazopanib Pediapred PEG Interferon Pegaspargase Pegfilgrastim PEG INTRON PEG L asparaginase PEMETREXED Pentostatin Phenylalanine Mustard Platinol Platinol AQ Prednisolone Prednisone Prelone Procarbazine PROCRIT Proleukin Prolia Prolifeprospan 20 with Cannustine Implant Provenge Purinethol Raloxifene Revlimid Rheumatrex Rituxan Rituximab Roferon A Interferon Alfa 2a Romiplostim Rubex Rubidomycin hydrochloride Sandostatin Sandostatin LAR Sargramostim Sipuleucel T Soliris Solu Cortef Solu Medrol Sorafenib SPRYCEL STI 571 Streptozocin SU11248 Sunitinib Sutent Tamoxifen Tarceva Targretin Tasigna Taxol Taxotere Temodar Temozolomide Temsirolimus Teniposide TESPA Thalidomide Thalomid TheraCys Thioguanine Thioguanine Tabloid Thiophosphoamide Thioplex Thiotepa TICE Toposar Topotecan Toremifene Torisel Tositumomab Trastuzumab Treanda Tretinoin Trexall Trisenox TSPA TYKERB Valrubicin Valstar vandetanib VCR Vectibix Velban Velcade Vemurafenib VePesid Vesanoid Viadur Vidaza Vinblastine Vinblastine Sulfate Vincasar Pfs Vincristine Vinorelbine Vinorelbine tartrate VLB VM 26 Vorinostat Votrient VP 16 Vumon Xalkori capsules Xeloda Xgeva Yervoy Zanosar Zelboraf Zevalin Zinecard Zoladex Zoledronic acid Zolinza Zometa and Zytiga .

In one embodiment of the combination cancer therapy the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin can be administered simultaneously with the at least one additional cancer therapy or sequentially. In one embodiment simultaneous administration can be achieve when the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin and the at least one additional cancer therapy are in one composition.

In one embodiment the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin is delivered in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment the term pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. Specifically it refers to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the therapeutic is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Water is a preferred carrier when the pharmaceutical composition is administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The composition if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. These compositions can take the form of solutions suspensions emulsion tablets pills capsules powders sustained release formulations and the like. The composition can be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides. Oral formulation can include standard carriers such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate etc. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. 1990 . The formulation should suit the mode of administration. Additional carrier agents such as liposomes can be added to the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

As used herein in one embodiment administering refers to the placement of an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin into a subject by a method or route which results in at least partial localization of the inhibitor or statin at a desired site. The inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin can be administered by any appropriate route which results in effective treatment in the subject i.e. administration results in delivery to a desired location e.g. directly to a tumor or near a tumor in the subject where at least a portion of the composition delivered i.e. at least an inhibitor or statin which inhibits LSD1 and or LSD2 activity is active in the desired site for a period of time. The period of time the LSD1 2 inhibitor is active depends on the half life in vivo after administration to a subject and can be as short as a few hours e.g. twenty four hours to a few days to as long as several years. Modes of administration include injection infusion instillation suppository e.g. for vaginal cervical. rectal or urethral insertion percutaneous implantation or ingestion. Injection includes without limitation intravenous intramuscular intraarterial intraventricular intradermal intraperitoneal subcutaneous subcuticular injection and infusion.

Therapeutic compositions contain a physiologically tolerable carrier together with at least an inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin as described herein dissolved or dispersed therein as an active ingredient. In one embodiment the therapeutic composition is not immunogenic when administered to a mammal or human patient for therapeutic purposes. As used herein the terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration to or upon a mammal without the production of undesirable physiological effects such as nausea dizziness gastric upset and the like. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier will not promote the raising of an immune response to an agent with which it is admixed unless so desired. The preparation of a pharmacological composition that contains active ingredients dissolved or dispersed therein is well understood in the art and need not be limited based on formulation. Compositions can be prepared as injectable either as liquid solutions or suspensions however solid forms suitable for solution or suspensions in liquid prior to use can also be prepared. The preparation can also be emulsified or presented as a liposome composition. The inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin can also be conjugated with lipids e.g. amphipathic lipids for stability and delivery purposes. The conjugation bonds are reversible and are broken or dissolved when the inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin are delivered to target destination. Alternatively the inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin described herein can be prepared as a solid or semi solid or emulsion in suppository e.g. as microspheres. The microspheres can be inserted as a solid into or targeted to a solid tumor. The inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin described herein can be mixed with excipients which are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient and in amounts suitable for use in the therapeutic methods described herein. Specifically contemplated pharmaceutical compositions are inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin in a preparation for delivery as described herein above or in references cited and incorporated herein in that section. Suitable excipients include for example water saline dextrose glycerol ethanol or the like and combinations thereof. In addition if desired the composition can contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering agents and the like which enhance the effectiveness of the active ingredient. The therapeutic composition comprising the inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin described herein can include pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the components therein. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the polypeptide that are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic tartaric mandelic and the like. Salts formed with the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine and the like. Physiologically tolerable carriers are well known in the art. Exemplary liquid carriers are sterile aqueous solutions that contain no materials in addition to the active ingredients and water or contain a buffer such as sodium phosphate at physiological pH value physiological saline or both such as phosphate buffered saline. Still further aqueous carriers can contain more than one buffer salt as well as salts such as sodium and potassium chlorides dextrose polyethylene glycol and other solutes. Liquid compositions can also contain liquid phases in addition to and to the exclusion of water. Exemplary of such additional liquid phases are glycerin vegetable oils such as cottonseed oil and water oil emulsions. The amount of inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin used in the methods described herein that will be effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques.

Routes of administration include but are not limited to direct injection intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intrauterine and oral routes. The inhibitors of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin or compositions described herein can be administered by any convenient route for example by infusion intravenous injection suppository or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa etc. and may be administered together with other biologically active agents. Administration can be systemic or local.

The precise dose and formulation to be employed depends upon the potency of the inhibitor and include amounts large enough to produce the desired effect e.g. a reduction in size and or growth of the tumors in the subject. The dosage should not be so large as to cause unacceptable adverse side effects. Generally the dosage will vary with the type of inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin and with the age condition and size of the tumors in the subject are also considered. Dosage and formulation of the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin will also depend on the route of administration and the mass and number of tumors in the subject and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each subject s circumstances. Effective doses can be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

The dosage can be determined by one of skill in the art and can also be adjusted by the individual physician in the event of any complication. Typically the dosage ranges from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight. In some embodiments the dosage range is from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 1 g kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 0.5 g kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 0.1 g kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 50 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 25 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 10 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 5 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 1 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 0.1 mg kg body weight from 0.001 mg kg body weight to 0.005 mg kg body weight. Alternatively in some embodiments the dosage range is from 0.1 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 0.5 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 1 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 1.5 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 2 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 2.5 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 3 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 3.5 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 4 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 4.5 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight from 4.8 g kg body weight to 5 g kg body weight. In one embodiment the dose range is from 5 g kg body weight to 30 g kg body weight. Alternatively the dose range will be titrated to maintain serum levels between 5 g mL and 30 g mL.

Administration of the doses recited above can be repeated for a limited period of time. In some embodiments the doses are given once a day or multiple times a day for example but not limited to three times a day. In one embodiment the doses recited above are administered daily for several weeks or months. The duration of treatment depends upon the subject s clinical progress and responsiveness to therapy e.g. shrinkage of tumor sizes. Continuous relatively low maintenance doses are contemplated after an initial higher therapeutic dose. As exemplary the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 or statin and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be formulated for direct application by injection into the tumor in the subject.

Efficacy testing can be performed during the course of treatment using the methods described herein e.g. ultrasound MRI and CT to monitor the shrinkage in size of the tumors in the treated subject. A decrease in size of the tumors during and after treatment indicates that the treatment is effective in reducing tumor size. Measurements of the degree of severity of a number of symptoms associated with cancerous tumors are also noted prior to the start of a treatment and then at later specific time period after the start of the treatment. A skilled physician will be able to ascertain the tumor sizes and related symptoms by known methods in the art and those described herein.

 18 The inhibitor of paragraph 17 wherein the statin is selected from the group consisting of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin mevastatin and pravastatin.

 20 The inhibitor of paragraph 16 wherein the inhibitor of LSD1 and or LSD2 is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor.

 21 The inhibitor of paragraph 20 wherein the monoamine oxidase inhibitor is tranylcypromine derivatives or analogues thereof.

 22 The inhibitor of any one of paragraphs 16 21 wherein the inhibitor is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intradermal topical intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intrauterine rectal vaginal intrasynovial intraocular periocular intratumor and parenteral administration.

 23 The inhibitor of any one of paragraphs 16 22 that is administered in conjunction with at least one additional cancer therapy to achieve a combination cancer therapy.

This invention is further illustrated by the following example which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references cited throughout this application as well as the figures and cited references are incorporated herein it their entirety by reference.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using not more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

Statins HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are widely used for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and have an established role in the reduction of mortality and morbidity of coronary artery diseases. Large clinical trials have demonstrated that statins have lipid independent pleiotropic effects including chemo preventive effects and adjuvant chemotherapeutic effects in cancer treatment. However the mechanism s of such anti tumor activity are largely unknown. Recent data have shown histone demethylases LSD1 and LSD2 to play important roles in cancer by affecting gene regulation through chromatin remodeling. Disclosed here for the first time is the discovery that statins inhibit LSD1 and LSD2 in vitro and in vivo providing a novel epigenetic mechanism relevant to anti tumor activity. Inhibition of histone demethylase activity by statins in cells results in direct epigenetic profile changes of LSD1 2 associated genes and consequent alteration of expression of LSDs target genes. These data indicate that histone demethylases are previously unrecognized cellular targets of statins and inhibition of LSD1 2 activity may be an underlying mechanism whereby statins act on the gene expression programs. These findings provide novel insights into understanding the lipid independent pleiotropic effects of statins and may directly link the action of statins to the epigenetic regulation of functional cancer genome.

Peptides Histones Antibodies and Reagents Synthetic histone peptides with specific modifications as well as antibodies Ab that recognize different histone modifications were purchased from Upstate Group Inc Lake Placid N.Y. UP or ABCAM Ltd Cambridge United Kingdom . Bulk histones were purchased from Sigma catalogue H9250 . Formaldehyde dehydrogenase EC1.2.1.46 purified from was purchased from Sigma F1879 . All statins were purchased from Calbiochem CA .

MALDI Mass Spectrometry Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Mass Spectroscopy Two microliters of the 100 l demethylation reaction mixture was desalted by passing through a C18 ZipTip Millipore . Prior to desalting the ZipTips were activated and equilibrated using 10 l of 50 acetonitrile 0.1 TFA 2 followed by 10 l of 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA 3 . The reaction mixture was then loaded onto the activated ZipTips. The ZipTips were washed with 10 l of 0.1 TFA 5 and the bound material was eluted from the ZipTip using 2 l of 70 acetonitrile containing 1 mg ml cyano 4 hydroxycinnamic acid MALDI matrix and 0.1 TFA. The eluates were spotted onto a circle of open MALDI target areas to allow solvent evaporation and peptide matrix cocrystallization. The samples were analyzed by a MALDI TOF TOF mass spectrometer Ultraflex Bruker Daltonics Billerica Mass. at the PFPC core facility of Department of Pathology Harvard Medical School.

Demethylase Assay For a typical reaction the volume of the reaction is 100 l in which either 6 g bulk histone or 3 ug nucleosome or 3 g of modified histone peptides were used as substrates. Substrate were incubated with 3 g purified recombinant LSD1 in the histone demethylase assay buffer 1 50 mM Tris pH 8.5 50 mM KCl 5 mM MgCl 0.5 BSA and 5 glycerol from 30 min up to 4 hr at 37 C. Inhibitors were first pre incubated with enzyme in reaction buffer without substrate for 20 mins and then substrates were added to initiate the reaction. The demethylation of histone and nucleosome substrates was analyzed by SDS PAGE Western blotting using methylation specific antibodies. The demethylation of histone peptides was analyzed either by formaldehyde dehydrogenase assay or by mass spectrometry.

Formaldehyde Dehydrogenase Assay Formaldehyde formation of demethylation reactions was continuously monitored by a coupled spectrophotometric assay 55 . LSD1 was first incubated in buffer containing 50 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.2 2 mM NAD and 0.1 U FDH 100 l reaction volume at 37 C. for 5 min without substrate. The demethylation FDH coupled reaction was initiated by the addition of the substrates. The absorbance at 340 nm was measured at each time point in a 0.5 min interval using Beckman DU640 spectrophotometer. Over a 6 min period a kinetic software program automatically recorded the absorbance at each time point. Standard curves were obtained using various concentrations of formaldehyde diluted from 37 formaldehyde solution Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. .

Calculation of ICof Fluvastatin In the fluvastatin inhibited endogenous LSD1 demethylase activity assay Western blot films were scanned and desitometric analysis was performed using Image J software NIH Bethesda Md. . The percentage of substrate conversion was used to represent the activity of LSD1. The ICof fluvastatin was calculated using sigmoidal dose response analysis with GraphPad Prism 4 software GraphPad Software La Jolla Calif. .

Cell Culture and Statin Treatment HeLa S stable cell lines transfected by either empty vector MOCK or pOZ LSD1 expressing Flag HA tagged LSD1 Flag LSD1 were maintained in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium with 10 fetal calf serum. At the time of treatment cells were washed twice with PBS and incubated with vehicle fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin or pravastatin at the dose ranges from 2 to 10 M. The cells were harvested for RNA and CHIP analyses after 24 hour or 72 hour incubation.

Chromatin Immunoprecipitation ChIP Analysis ChIP assays were carried out using EZ ChIP Kit Upstate 17 371 according to manufacturer s instructions with modifications. Briefly after treatment with 1 formaldehyde cells were harvested and sonicated in the ChIP lysis buffer to produce soluble chromatin with average sizes between 300 1000 bp. The chromatin samples were pre cleaned for 1 hour using salmon sperm DNA protein G agarose beads Upstate . Rabbit anti LSD1 Upstate 07 705 anti H3K4Me2 Upstate 07 030 or control antibodies Santa Cruz sc2027 were used for each ChIP. The antibody chromatin complexes were immunoprecipitated with salmon sperm DNA pre absorbed protein G agarose beads. After extensive washing bound chromatin was eluted de crosslinked and purified using QIAquick PCR Purification Kit QIAGEN . Relative abundance of targets of interest was quantified by real time PCR. ChIP primer sequences are as follows SCN2A 2F 5 cgtgtttcaaggctacagca 3 SEQ. ID. NO 1 SCN2A 2R 5 ctctagcctcccaaccttcc 3 SEQ. ID. NO 2 SYN1 RE F 5 tgggttttaggaccaggatg 3 SEQ. ID. NO 3 SYN1 RE R 5 ggtgctgaagctggcagt 3 SEQ. ID. NO 4 .

Quantitative Real time RT PCR Total mRNA was extracted from 2 10cultured Hela cells using the RNEASY Mini Kit Qiagen Sciences Germantown Md. . After DNase treatment cDNA was synthesized from RNA with the First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit Amersham Buckinghamshire UK . PCR amplification reactions were performed with CyberGreen reagent Qiagen Sciences for SYN1 and SCN2A. Primers used in RT PCR were as follows SYN1 forward 5 cgtgcgtgtccagaagattg 3 SEQ. ID. NO 5 reverse 5 tgtgatcccttccgtccttg 3 SEQ. ID. NO 6 SCN2A forward 5 gatgaggatgatgaaaatggc 3 SEQ. ID. NO 7 reverse 5 ctaattttctaatagggttgaaggg 3 SEQ. ID. NO 8 . Gene expression of IL 6 and actin was detected by Taqman Gene Expression Assays Applied Biosystems using the ABI Prism 7000 Sequence Detection System. The primers for IL 6 and were purchased from Applied Biosystems. CT method was used to determine mRNA levels. Target gene expression was normalized to actin levels.

Computational Docking and Modeling The analysis was performed using Schr dinger s applications Maestro Glide and Ligprep. Schr dinger LLC . Coordinates of human lysine specific demethylase Yong Chen et al PDB code 2HKO were first truncated to remove the tower and the SWIRM domain and subsequently prepared for docking using the protein preparation wizard. During the preparation step all water molecules were removed hydrogen atoms were added and the structure was minimized to an RMSD of 0.3 2. The prepped coordinates together with partial charges were used to calculate a cubic grid box which extended from the active site pocket allowing ligands up to 20 in length to be fitted. The full docking set consisted of five statins as well as one thousand compounds from a decoy set. The statin molecules in hydroxy acid form were prepared and minimized in Ligprep with OPLS 2005 forcefield and subsequently combined with the 1K Drug Like Ligand Decoys Set Schr dinger LLC . All docking calculations were done in Glide extra precision Glide XP with soften potential of nonpolar ligand atoms scaling factor of 0.8 and including ligands partial charges.

Statistical analyses. Data are given as means s.e.m. Statistical comparisons between two experimental groups were accomplished by two tail unpaired t test performed with GraphPad Prism Software. P value

Statins inhibit the demethylase activity of LSD1 toward specific histone mark. Demethylation of a dimethyl K4 histone H3 H3K4Me2 by LSD1 generates unmodified histone H3 with the net loss of 28 Da equal to the molecular weight of two CH2. It was previously reported that this loss can be readily detected by mass spectrometry using synthetic H3K4Me2 peptide as substrate 22 . Based on this MALDI TOF mass spectrometry based demethylase assay an LSD1 inhibitor screening scheme was developed to test a number of statins for LSD1 inhibitor activity . Statins were first analyzed whether they could directly inhibit LSD1 H3K4Me2 demethylase activity. As expected the mock treated diMeK4H3 peptide Me2 peaked at a molecular mass of 2864 Da Me2 . Incubation of the same peptide with recombinant LSD1 rLSD1 enzyme decreased the 2864 Da peak and resulted in the generation of two new peaks 2850 Da Me1 and 2836 Da peaks Me0 corresponding to the two expected demethylation products monoMeK4H3 Me1 and unmodified histone H3 peptide Me0 respectively. Addition of 1 mM of fluvastatin F FIG. B lovastatin L FIG. B simvastatin S FIG. B or mevastatin M FIG. B reduced the LSD1 mediated conversion of substrate diMeK4H3 to monoMeK4H3 and unmodified histone H3 FIG. B . Tranylcypromine T FIG. B a monoamine oxidase inhibitor that was recently shown to inhibit LSD1 activity inhibited LSD1 activity under the same assay conditions 20 37 39 thus serving as a positive control for the assay. The extent of inhibition was dependent on the specific statin tested. For example fluvastatin completely inhibited rLSD1 activity while the same concentration of mevastatin had less effect. Pravastatin P FIG. B showed no effect on the rLSD1 enzymatic activity. The effectiveness of these statins in inhibiting rLSD1 activity under these experimental conditions was in the order of F L S M P. Collectively the results indicate that certain but not all statins inhibit histone demethylase LSD1 activity.

Kinetic study of the inhibition of LSD1 by fluvastatin. It was next demonstrated that the inhibition of recombinant LSD1 by statins is dose dependent using the MALDI TOF mass spectrometry based assay . Increasing the concentration of fluvastatin from 0 to 1000 M resulted in a dose dependent inhibition of LSD1 activity as manifested by the decrease in the demethylation products H3K4Me0 and H3K4Me1 and a corresponding increase in the H3K4Me2 substrate FIG. A . Similar to fluvastatin lovastatin and simvastatin also inhibited LSD1 activity although they required higher concentrations to achieve complete inhibition data not shown .

Further characterization of LSD1 inhibition by statins was performed using fluvastatin one of the most potent LSD1 inhibitors was tested using an optimized formaldehyde dehydrogenase FDH coupled demethylation assay. This is a sensitive and reliable assay that measures the formaldehyde product generated from the LSD1 demethylation reaction . As demonstrated previously the assay detects concentrations of formaldehyde ranging from 0.01 nmole up to 5 nmole in a 100 l reaction volume by simply measuring O.D. at 340 nm to reflect the amount of NAD NADH conversion 16 . Importantly there was a linear correlation between the formaldehyde concentration and NAD NADH conversion in the presence of fluvastatin indicating that these agents do not interfere with the FDH demethylase activity assay. As shown in in the absence of fluvastatin F0 the addition of rLSD1 enzyme to the FDH coupled demethylase assay reaction generates an almost linear increase of OD340 value over a period of four minutes. The linearity of the data indicate the steady state of the reaction and thus the slope that represents the rate of formaldehyde production can be calculated and converted to the rLSD1 activity . As the concentration of fluvastatin increased the slopes of the corresponding reaction curves decreased reflecting diminished rLSD1 demethylase activity. While low concentrations of fluvastatin 1 10 M had little effect on rLSD1 demethylase activity a dramatic decrease in activity was seen at 30 M with almost complete inhibition at 100 M . No product was detected over the period of time monitor in this experiment where the substrate LSD1 enzyme or FAD was omitted. In a dose response curve was plotted. The ECof fluvastatin in this particular experiment condition is about 25 M. Thus with both MALDI TOF mass spectrometry analysis and FDH coupled demethylase analysis fluvastatin was shown to be a LSD1 inhibitor in vitro.

Statins inhibit LSD1 activity on histones and nucleosomes. To ascertain whether statins inhibit LSD1 activity on more relevant substrates such as core histones and native substrate nucleosomes another LSD1 demethylase assay using an antibody that specifically recognizes H3K4Me2 on bulk histones and nucleosomes was performed. Consistent with the peptide MALDI TOF mass spectrometry assay results fluvastatin inhibited LSD1 demethylase activity on bulk histones in a dose dependent manner lane 3 5 .

It was next demonstrated that statins inhibit native LSD1 activity on its physiological substrate nucleosome using the purified TAP CtBP complex as enzyme source which contains active endogenous LSD1 and its cofactor CoREST 27 40 42 . As shown in The CtBP complex was purified from HeLa cells and shown to efficiently demethylate H3K4Me2 on nucleosomes lane 2 17 19 . Fluvastatin had a dramatic inhibitory effect on the LSD1 activity when nucleosomes were used as substrate lane 4 6 . This inhibition was seen at low concentrations with an ICof 0.30 M lane 4 and was almost complete at a concentration of 3 uM lane 6 indicating fluvastatin is even more potent towards the native enzyme. Importantly the ICof native LSD1 falls into the range of fluvastatin serum concentrations in patients taking this medication 43 .

Effect of statins on the expression of LSD1 regulated target genes in vivo. Since LSD1 reduces the extent of H3K4Me2 it was reasoned that inhibition of LSD1 by statins would lead to increased levels of H3K4 dimethylation on the well characterized LSD1 target gene promoters SCN2A and synapasin1.1. Thus to assay for LSD1 activity in vivo the change of H3K4Me2 state of the LSD1 target promoters after fluvastatin treatment were measured using the chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP assay. It was show that treatment of HeLa cells with 5 M fluvastatin caused a 30 increase in H3K4Me2 levels on the SCN2A promoter and a 90 increase in H3K4Me2 levels on the synapasin1.1 gene promoter as compared to vehicle alone columns 2 . Similar increases in H3K4Me2 levels of SCN2A and syn1 1 were observed when LSD1 activity was reduced through the use of LSD1 siRNA 16 . Importantly in the presence of fluvastatin the levels of LSD1 enzyme bound to the SCN2A and synapasin1.1 promoters did not change indicating that the increased level of H3K4 dimethylation was due to the inhibition of LSD1 H3K4Me2 demethylase activity and not to changes in association of LSD1 protein with the promoters columns 3 . These findings are consistent with our hypothesis that statins inhibit LSD1 activity in vivo.

Because LSD1 is a co repressor silencing transcription of SCN2A and syn1.1 and these transcriptional effects are largely dependent on LSD1 s H3K4Me2 demethylase activity it was hypothesized that statins would increase expression of LSD1 responsive genes. As shown in FIG. B treatment with fluvastatin square lovastatin circle and simvastatin diamond resulted in significant increases in mRNA levels of SCN2A and syn1.1. The effectiveness of statins in increasing gene expression was in the order of fluvastatin lovastatin simvastatin corresponding to the same order of their inhibitory effect on LSD1 activity in vitro. Pravastatin did not show an effect of on gene expression consistent with our finding that pravastatin did not inhibit LSD1 demethylase activity in vitro.

These data strongly indicate that statins inhibit LSD1 repression of gene expression by reducing LSD1 enzymatic activity. If so increasing the levels of LSD1 protein should saturate the specific statins and overcome their effect on LSD1 target genes. To test this hypothesis we established a stable HeLa cell line that over expresses Flag tagged full length LSD1 FgLSD1 at levels roughly 100 fold of that of mock transfected control cells. Transcript levels of the LSD1 target genes a prototype target syn1.1 and a recently identified target IL 6 32 were assessed in mock and FgLSD1 over expressing cells treated with or without fluvastatin lovastatin or pravastatin. As demonstrated above fluvastatin and lovastatin caused similar increases in syn1.1 expression in mock control cells while these effects were markedly blunted in the FgLSD1 cells overexpressing LSD1 . Again pravastatin did not affect expression of the LSD1 target genes in either control or LSD1 overexpressed cells. Thus overexpressing LSD1 overcomes the ability of statins to regulate expression of LSD1 target genes lending further support to the hypothesis that LSD1 is a specific cellular target of a subtype of statins.

Statins inhibit the demethylase activity of LSD2 toward specific histone mark. By using multiple independent approaches as stated above to demonstrate the inhibitory effect of statins on LSD1 employed similar approach was also to study the statin effect on LSD2 enzymatic activity at biochemical cellular and molecular biological levels. As it has been previously reported that the enzymatic activity of LSD2 can be readily detected by Mass Spectrometry using synthetic H3K4Me2 peptide as substrate 24 . In contrast to LSD1 recombinant LSD2 enzyme can decrease the 2864 Da peak and result in the generation of only one new peak 2850 Da Me1 as the expected demethylation products monoMeK4H3 Me1 . No unmodified histone H3 peptide Me0 was detected . The data indicated that all the statins except pravastatin have better inhibitory effects than tranylcypromine which has been reported as an LSD1 inhibitor with LSD2 inhibition function . Moreover increasing the concentration of fluvastatin from 0 to 1000 M resulted in a dose dependent inhibition of LSD2 activity as manifested by the decrease in the demethylation products H3K4Me1 and a corresponding increase in the H3K4Me2 substrate . LSD2 demethylase assay was also performed using an antibody that specifically recognizes H3K4Me2 on bulk histones. Consistent with the peptide MALDI TOF mass spectrometry assay results fluvastatin inhibited LSD2 demethylase activity on bulk histones in a dose dependent manner . These data demonstrate that a subset of statins act as inhibitors of the histone demethylase LSD2 in vitro and in vivo indicating that histone demethylase LSD2 is also a novel cellular target of statins.

Overexpression LSD1 and LSD2 rescue statin induced cell death in human cancer cells independent of mevalonate biosynthesis pathway. The anti proliferative effect of statins in Hela cells in vitro was next tested that by treating them with various doses of fluvastatin lovastatin and pravastatin for 24 hours. Fluvastatin and lovastatin induced cell death at concentrations of 2.5 5 M. There was no significant cell death with pravastatin treatment at concentrations less than 10 M . Furthermore by flow cytometry fluvastatin and lovastatin induced a large subG1 population in POZ cells stably expressed with control vector and the mutant LSD1. In comparison cells overexpressing LSD1 and CTBP a cellular repressor complex that contains LSD1 showed a markedly decrease of subG1 population . LSD1 POZ had two hundred fold higher expression of LSD1 comparing with the control MOCK and mutant LSD1 POZ cells data not shown . Consistent with literature treatment with pravastatin had a smaller effect compared to that of fluvastatin and lovastatin.

A subset of statin molecules fit into the catalytic domain of the LSD1 and inhibit its catalytic activity. To gain insight into the extent to which statin molecules could fit into the catalytic domain of LSD1 and inhibit its catalytic activity we next explored the relationship between LSD1 protein and statins at the level of atomic structure using a systematic computational docking program Maestro Glide Ligprep Schr dinger s computational technology Schr dinger LLC . The full docking set which consisted of the five representative statins used in this study and over one thousand randomly chosen chemical compounds from a decoy set was used for a no bias best fit evaluation. Consistent with our findings the highest scoring statin was fluvastatin score of 10.17 ranking number 18 among the full docking set. Importantly in the simulated co structure of LSD1 fluvastatin complex the fluorophenyl group of fluvastatin packs tightly against the FAD portion of the LSD1 demethylase catalytic cavity with the fluorine atom letter F in insert A and green on fluorophenyl group pointing towards the positively charged patch created by Lys 661. We also superimposed the fluvastatin molecule into the catalytic cavity of the LSD1 demethylase in the presence of the putative substrate . This model indicates that by physically occupying the catalytic pocket statins can prevent the docking and positioning of methylated substrates in the catalytic cavity thus inhibiting substrate catalysis and the fluorophenyl group of fluvastatin may be important for its inhibitory effect on LSD1. Taken together this computer docking and modeling analysis provides a structural rationale for the inhibition of LSD1 by statins.

There is growing awareness from recent clinical data that statins may have anti tumor effects in various types of cancer. In melanoma the Air Force Texas Coronary Atherosclerosis Prevention Study AFCAPS TexCAPS evaluation of the efficacy of lovastatin in preventing coronary events found a significant decreased incidence of new melanomas in the lovastatin group 56 . In addition the Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Intervention Trial VA HIT demonstrated a significant reduction in melanoma with gemfibrozil treatment 57 . A number of translational studies that have investigated the effects of statins on melanoma cells showed them to induce apoptosis reduce tumor growth and diminish angiogenesis 58 59 . Moreover statins have been shown to heighten the response to chemotherapy drugs in the B16 mouse model of melanoma 60 . Lung cancer incidence rates in statin users were found to be significantly reduced 55 risk reduction in the Veterans Affairs VA Health Care System case control study 12 . Overall statin use also has been reported was associated with a risk reduction of human cancers of 20 adjusted odds ratio OR 0.80 95 CI 0.66 to 0.96 61 . However other studies have shown no anti cancer benefit for statins. A meta analysis study including 6662 incident cancers and 2407 cancer deaths showed that statins did not reduce the incidence of cancer OR 1.02 95 CI 0.97 1.07 or cancer deaths OR 1.01 95 CI 0.93 1.09 and there was no reduction in any individual cancer type 62 . Two studies reported that there were no benefits with statin treatment in breast cancer 63 64 although other clinical and translational basic research data support beneficial effects in breast cancer 14 65 . These conflicting reports underscore the need to better understand the effects of statins in cancer biology.

The current findings indicate an epigenetic mechanism for anti tumor effects of statins involving inhibition of histone demethylases which could provide new insights to the conflicting data from clinical trials. First it is well established that the distribution of histone demethylase expression is tissue specific and different cancers have different profiles of histone demethylase expression. From the AFCAPS data melanoma was the only type of cancer with significant beneficial effect p

To exclude the possibility that the changes in H3K4Me2 dimethylation and expression of LSD target genes was due to inhibition of HMG CoA reductase by statins the cultured cancer cells and HeLa cells were supplied with mevalonate the product of HMG CoA reductase catalyzed reaction to allow the cells to by pass the requirement for HMG CoA reductase activity. The addition of mevalonate did not rescue the cell death of cancer cells in breast cancer and melanoma moreover mevalonate did not reverse the derepression of the LSD1 target genes by statins . The data here indicate that the genomic pathway of statins involving histone demethylases as cellular targets plays a critical role in the anti tumor effect of statins by targeting at cancer stem cells and tumor cells resistant to chemotherapy while non genomic HMG CoA reductase pathway of statins play more important role in lipid lowing effect of statins.

Different statins have different effects on inhibiting LSD1 2 and only a subset of statins can inhibit histone demethylases. The data here show that pravastatin cannot inhibit LSD1 and LSD2 by multiple independent experiments in vitro including mass spec and demethylation assays and . Furthermore pravastatin did not induce apoptosis in cultured HeLa cells in vivo . This may provide insight to the results of the two clinical trials showing statins have no benefits in breast cancer patients since both trials used pravastatin. Thus the current study of identifying histone demethylase as cellular targets of statins provided insight on the understanding of anti cancer effect of statins It provides new information to the future better design of clinical trial and potential clinical application of statins in cancer treatment. Moreover statins as novel LSD inhibitors can be clinically used as adjuvant therapeutic agents to cancer treatment given the few side effects and low cost.

Using multiple independent approaches it was shown that a subset of statins act as inhibitors of the histone demethylases LSD1 and LSD2 indicating that histone demethylases are cellular targets of statins. Importantly inactivation of LSD1 by a subset of statins at a cellular level not only results in histone code changes in the LSD1 target genes but also consequently reprograms the expression of the target genes statins are capable of de repressing a subsets of neuronal specific genes such as SCN2A and synapsin 1.1 and pro inflammatory genes such as IL 6 genes in non neuronal HeLa cells. Thus in addition to the well established lipid related pathways non genomic the findings here indicate a new pathway genomic in which statins inhibit a key enzyme in the epigenetic gene regulation of many important biological functions and pathological processes .

The miniCoopR assay was performed as previously described Ceol et al. 2011 . Briefly transgenes were expressed in zebrafish melanocytes in the background of a stably integrated BRAFV600E transgene and a p53 loss of function mutation. The background also contained a mitfa loss offunction mutation which blocked melanocyte development. Transgenes were coupled via the miniCoopR vector to a rescuing mitfa gene ensuring that rescued melanocytes also expressed the transgene being tested. Then different type of statins with different doses will be administered to the melanoma forming zebrafish. Then drug effects will be monitored and scored by melanomas formations in zebrasfish. When the animals are sacrificed tumors will be formalin fixed embedded and sectioned transversely to be assessed.

The references and patent applications cited herein and throughout the specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

