---

title: Nasal implant introduced through a non-surgical injection technique
abstract: A method for non-surgically treating an internal nasal valve of a patient comprising, injecting a working device into the internal nasal valve of the patient, wherein the injected working device in the nasal tissue causes an alteration of an internal or external nasal valve. A device introduced by injection into the nose, allowing for structural support or filling of defects in the nose, and causing a change in external shape of the nose. The device and inserts and implants described also have use in cosmetic applications relating to the facial tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784488&OS=08784488&RS=08784488
owner: Spirox, Inc.
number: 08784488
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
This application is a continuation of and is based upon and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 for U.S. Ser. No. 12 507 697 filed Jul. 22 2009 which is a division of U.S. Ser. No. 11 898 768 filed Sep. 14 2007 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 780 730 on Aug. 24 2010 and the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e for U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 846 736 filed on Sep. 25 2006 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention has been created without the sponsorship or funding of any federally sponsored research or development program.

The invention relates to methods implants and devices for non surgically supporting the nasal valve and achieving cosmetic changes to the shape of the nose e.g. rhinoplasty . The device is introduced through an injectable method into the nasal tissue and by specially designed suture.

The information provided below is not admitted to be prior art to the present invention but is provided solely to assist the understanding of the reader.

The internal nasal valve is the narrowest point in the nasal airway and is the point that often limits inspiration flow. A large percentage of inspiratory resistance is attributable to internal nasal valve function or malfunction. Collapse of one or both internal nasal valves is a common cause of nasal airway obstruction. Narrowness of the nasal valve may lead to difficulty in respiration and snoring as well as other breathing related disorders such as sleep apnea. Internal nasal valve collapse can be a consequence of previous surgery trauma aging or primary weakness of the upper or lower lateral cartilage and is often symptomatic and debilitating.

A description of the nasal valve and its functions are more fully described in Cole The Four Components of the Nasal Valve Vol. 17 No. 2 pp. 107 110 2003 . See also Cole Biophysics of Nasal Air Flow A Review Vol. 14 No. 4 pp. 245 249 2000 .

Surgery to strengthen the nasal valve has been shown to significantly improve quality of life for treated patients. Rhee et al. Nasal Valve Surgery Improves Disease Specific Quality of Life 115 pp. 437 440 2005 . The most common procedure for treating nasal valve collapse is the so called alar batten grafting. In batten grafting a patient s cartilage is harvested from any one of a number of locations such as the nasal septum or the ear. The cartilage is sculpted to an appropriate size and shaped and beveled on the edges for improved cosmetics. The batten graft is placed in the desired location of the nasal passage through either an external or endonasal approach. A pocket is formed overlying the cartilages of the nose with the pocket sized to receive the batten graft. Placement of the batten graft is shown in page 577 of Millman et al. Alar Batten Grafting for Management of the Collapsed Nasal Valve Laryngoscope Vol. 112 pp. 574 579 2002 . Other nasal valve surgeries are described in Kalan et al. Treatment of External Nasal Valve Alar Rim Collapse with an Alar Strut Vol. 115 pages 788 791 2001 Karen et al. The Use of Percutaneous Sutures for Graft Fixation in Rhinoplasty Vol. 5 pp. 193 196 2003 and Fanous Collapsed Nasal Valve Widening by Composite Grafting to the Nasal Floor Vol. 25 No. 5 pp. 313 316 1996 .

The harvesting of a portion of the patient s natural cartilage is an additional procedure and requires sculpting or other modification of the graft prior to use. Accordingly surgically implanted synthetic nasal dilators and non surgical external dilators and cones have been suggested. An example of a surgically implanted dilator is found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 106 541 to Hurbis dated Aug. 22 2000. In the 541 patent the nasal dilator has a V shape with an apex placed over the bridge of the nose to support the nasal tissue at the area of the internal valve. Other examples include U.S. Pat. No. 6 322 590 to Sillers et al. dated Nov. 27 2001. However use of such devices require an open surgical technique for insertion.

External non implanted nasal dilators which are placed temporarily and are removed by the patient are also available. Such external devices are possibly placed on the outside surface of the nose such as the Breathe Right strips. U.S. Pat. No. 5 533 440 or U.S. Pat. No. 7 114 495 by Lockwood. Other devices may be placed in the nasal cavity but not implanted in the nose such as U.S. Pat. No. 7 055 523 given to Brown and U.S. Pat. No. 6 978 781 given to Jordan. However such devices can be uncomfortable unsightly and require the patient to remove and replace the device on a periodic basis.

Therefore there is an urgent need for identifying methods and systems for repairing nasal valves and related nasal structures including the repairing of the internal nasal valve collapse which would eliminate the need for invasive surgical techniques. And thus eliminating risks and costs of general anesthesia and operating room expenses and shorten recovery periods. It is also desirable to identify methods and systems that are implanted within the nose eliminating the need for disposable external devices

Unlike previous implant methods known and described the implant of this invention is inserted by means of an injection technique and does not require surgical incisions. It is inserted percutaneously or transmucosally usually under local anesthetic only. The implant may have different shapes and or physical properties than previous implants described. This allows for it to be inserted by means of a non surgical technique and the position may be adjusted initially after placement. One aspect of the invention would permit the implant to be adjusted after implantation

Unlike previous nasal strips and dilators the current invention provides a device and means whereby the device s is embedded within the tissue of the nose. It is designed to be permanent or long lasting. It is not visible externally and does not require the replacement or the adjustment by the patient and or the physician.

Objects of the present invention include providing a method and system for treating internal nasal valve collapse. According to the present invention this is achieved by non surgical or minimally invasive treatment. Treatment of the internal nasal valve includes injecting a working implant into the tissue of the patient affecting the internal nasal valve of the patient. The injection of the implant of this invention into the tissue surrounding internal nasal valve according to the invention causes an alteration or a change in the internal nasal valve angle.

In certain embodiments the increase in internal nasal valve angle is affected by the working device which causes an increase in the structural strength of the tissue surrounding the nasal valve thus preventing the tissue from collapsing during inspiration.

In another embodiment the working device is injected into more lateral structures of the nose which causes adjustment of the position of the lateral aspect of the lateral nasal cartilage whereby affecting the external nasal valve.

In another embodiment the working device is injected into more lateral structures of the nose strengthening the lateral nasal cartilage supporting the external nasal valve and preventing collapse during inspiration.

In another embodiment the working device is injected into more lateral structures of the nose strengthening the attachments of lateral nasal cartilage to the bone adjacent to the piriform aperture and supporting the external nasal valve and preventing collapse during inspiration.

In another embodiment the treatment method includes inserting an implant adjacent to lower lateral cartilage the nasal dorsum the paramedian tissue of the nasal dorsum or the collumella to change the external shape of the nose.

In another embodiment the implant is cylindrical in shape though other shapes have also been described and fall within the scope of the present invention. The size is selected such that the implant can fit in the core of a needle similar to a hypodermic needle . It is introduced into the nasal tissue by inserting the needle into the desired location. The implant is then maintained in that position by application of gentle pressure on the implant by an advancement shaft as the needle is withdrawn.

In another embodiment the implant has variable physical properties depending on the particular application. Implants may have a rigid or flexible shape or configuration. The insert may be moldable such that the shape is changed and maintained just before or after implantation or later modified as desired by the patient or as needed to obtain the results desired. Furthermore implants can have shape memory with a tendency to return to its preset shape when deflected.

In another embodiment of the invention the invention relates to an injection device for introducing the implant which comprises of an introduction needle containing the implant.

In another embodiment the implant may have sutures attached at either or both ends and a separate guiding needle attached to at least one end of one of the sutures. This needle may be passed along the desired path of the implant. The attached sutures can then be used to guide the implantation of the implant and to adjust position in the tissue immediately after implantation. These sutures may then be trimmed as needed.

The treatment method according to embodiments of the invention may be used to treat nasal snoring sleep apnea and or internal nasal valve collapse.

In another embodiment a system for non surgically treating the nasal valves of a patient or changing the shape of the nose includes an introducing needle an implant present within the needle an advancement shaft and a handle portion. In certain embodiments of the invention there may be a stop element to possibly control the movement of the advancement shaft after the introduction needle containing the implant is placed in the desired location.

In another embodiment the system includes a pre loaded syringe with a working device. In one embodiment the working device is comprising a solid or a semi solid material or a hollow or a non hollow cylinder of material. In another embodiment the working device is comprising a woven mesh of material biodegradable material or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the nasal implant proposed is an implant introduced into the nose through an injection technique either transmucosally from inside the nose or transcutaneously from outside the nose.

The implant of the present invention is intended for insertion into the nose tissue and serves to augment or modify the structure of the nose and the nasal or flow passages. The implant provides support of nasal valves in the nose and may serve to till defects and or supplement or modify the contour of the nose in the manner desired for the purpose.

The implant is introduced into a desired location within the nose or nasal passageway using an injection method. The implant is first incorporated into an injection device. The injection device may include a stop mechanism which serves to indicate when the implant is fully implanted.

The implant may be of any appropriate shape including a cylindrical an oval or a rectangular and may include one or more tapered ends

The implant of the present invention may be malleable which would permit the shape of the implant to be adjusted before or after implantation. While not required it may be preferred to use an implant made of a material which has shape memory properties. This property would permit the shape memory properties to be activated or adjusted after implantation with the application of an external condition such as temperature magnetic field or light.

In another embodiments of the invention the implant may be manufactured from a solid material a composite of materials and may be a single material or may be a composite of one or more materials. The implant may be in the form of a rod or rod like structure or may have a woven or braided structure. The implant may be woven or braided with several materials. In addition the implant may be manufactured with biodegradable materials including those with shape memory.

The implant may be introduced or injected through a transmucosal or transcutaneous route. The implant may be implanted within soft tissue of the nose in a location appropriate to provide the desired effect or result. When implanted into the soft tissue of the nose the implant may serve to support the soft tissue relative to the underlying bone structure. Further the implant may be used to augment the lower lateral cartilages of the nose. In another aspect of the invention the implant may be placed in the nose superior or inferior to the nasal cartilage. Further it may be placed in a manner which will serve to augment the dorsum of the nose or the collumella and may additionally be placed in a paramedian location in the nose.

In another embodiment the implant along with the inserting device and may be altered to be used in other areas of the body such as but not limited to naso labial folds lips and marrienette lines.

One embodiment of the invention is to provide a non surgical approach for treating and eliminating these cosmetic conditions whether related to nasal valve problems or any other cosmetic related conditions.

The implant may be introduced into the desired location using a pull through technique a guiding needle or a combination of such techniques. The implant may be provided separately or with an injection device. Where desired the implant may incorporate a special pull through suture. The implant may additionally include a trailing suture. Where a pull through needle or trailing suture is used both may be made or manufactured using materials which are dissolvable after the implant process is completed.

Before the subject invention is described further it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments of the invention described below as variations of the particular embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the appended claims. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments and is not intended to be limiting. Instead the scope of the present invention will be established by the appended claims.

In this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing the subject components of the invention that are described in the publications which components might be used in connection with the presently described invention.

The information provided below is not admitted to be prior art to the present invention but is provided solely to assist the understanding of the reader.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The structure of the lower two thirds of the nose is determined primarily by the nasal septal cartilage and paired upper and lower lateral cartilages covered by a soft tissue envelope . Structural weakness of these cartilages or their attachments may result in deleterious functional and cosmetic changes to the nose. The nasal valves may collapse contributing to a dynamic nasal obstruction. Internal and external nasal valves exist.

The internal nasal valves are formed by the angle of the septum and the lower edge of the upper lateral cartilage . During inspiration air flow creates a negative pressure on the cartilage resulting in a collapse of the nasal walls as seen in . This leads to nasal obstruction. In some cases there may also be collapse of the nasal valve at rest resulting in a constricted airway even at rest which is further exacerbated with inspiration.

The external valve is formed by the shape of the lower lateral cartilage and the strength of the attachments of these lower lateral cartilages to the lateral anterior maxillary bone. Weakening of this lateral cartilage also leads to airway obstruction which is exacerbated with inspiration.

Nasal patency is critical to the airway and nasal obstruction can contribute to snoring sleep apnea and disrupted sleep. The patency of a good nasal airway is also critical for the growing number of people using continuous positive airway pressure CPAP for sleep apnea.

Collapse and weakening of the nasal cartilage can also lead to external deformities and cosmetic changes to the nose. Loss of support and volume of the lower lateral cartilages mid nasal portion or the dorsum can lead to undesirable cosmetic changes. Relative tissue defects on the dorsum of the nose may lead to an irregular nasal profile. These cosmetic differences have traditionally been addressed by surgical rhinoplasty.

Common causes of nasal cartilage and nasal valve collapse today are prior surgery or trauma that weakens the cartilage age or congenital weakness of the nasal cartilage.

Current therapies to correct nasal valve collapse include several non surgical and surgical devices and techniques. Non surgical devices include external splints placed on the nasal surface which splay the lateral nasal walls outwardly thus widening the nasal airway. External strips are such an external device U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 533 440 6 238 411 6 982 359 7 114 495 . Other devices previously proposed include cone shaped applicators placed into the nostril or dilators having a variety of proposed shapes U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 055 523 6 978 781 .

Surgical therapies for repair of the valve collapse include insertion of spreader grafts for internal valve collapse batton grafts for external valve collapse or suspension sutures. These are placed through surgical incision techniques or external rhinoplasty approach. The grafts are most commonly harvested from septal or auricular cartilage.

Implants e.g. stents made from alloplastic materials inserted surgically through an external approach have also been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 106 541 6 454 803 6 322 590 2 173 848 . These prevent the morbidity or limitations of homografts but still require an incision surgical technique for placement.

Implants introduced through injection technique have been introduced into the palate and used for the treatment of snoring and sleep apnea U.S. Pat. No. 7 077 144 .

With reference to the figures provided herewith in which identical elements are numbered identically throughout a description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention will now be provided.

Before proceeding with a description of the apparatus and method of the present invention a review of relevant anatomy will facilitate an understanding of the present invention. show in perspective bottom plan and right side elevation respectively components of the nose with skeletal muscle soft tissue such as external skin or nasal mucosa and blood vessels removed.

The nose N includes nasal bone NB at an upper end of the nose. The bottom of the nose N includes the lower cartilage also referred to as the major alar cartilage. There is both a right lower cartilage RLC and a left lower cartilage LLC which are generally symmetrical in structure.

The lower cartilages RLC LLC include an external component referred to as the lateral crus LC and an internal component referred to as the medial crus MC. The medial crus and septal nasal cartilage create a nasal septum NS divide the nose N into a left nostril LN and a right nostril RN.

Upper cartilages reside between the lower cartilages and the nasal bones NB. The upper cartilages include both a right upper cartilage RUC and a left upper cartilage LUC separated by a septal cartilage SC extending down the bridge of the nose N. The opposing edges of the lower cartilage LLC RLC and upper cartilage LUC RUC may move relative to one another. Disposed between the opposing edges is an accessory nasal cartilage left and right LANC RANC.

When congested during inhalation airflow through the nostrils creates an inward pressure at the junction between the upper and lower cartilages. This pressure is expressed as a function of nasal resistance which is estimated as 10 centimeters of water per one liter per second. Cole The Four Components of the Nasal Valve pages 107 110 2003 .

In response to these forces a weakened nasal valve may collapse inwardly as illustrated in . In it will be appreciated that the inward deflection is exaggerated for ease of illustration. It will be noted with reference that the narrow angle between the LLC and the MC illustrated in and the relative weakness of the LLC contribute to the inward deflection and collapse of the airway.

The implant to be used in the present invention should be adapted for deployment in a nose. Thereto the implant should be adapted for introduction into the nose of a patient to be reliably positioned or installed within said nose and or to be retained in said nose. The adaptation may be such that the form or shape of the implant is adapted or preformed to the anatomy of the nose for which it is intended. For example the location in the nose and the required effect e.g. bulking only or stiffening may dictate that different shaped implants or implants with different materials be used. The implant is self holding when imbedded in the tissue.

Implants that can be used in the present invention include metallic implants polymeric implants biodegradable implants and covered or coated implants. They may be composed of a variety of metal compounds and or polymeric materials fabricated in innumerable designs composed of degradable and or nondegradable components fully or partially covered with graft materials such as the so called covered stents or sleeves and can be bare metal or drug eluting.

The implants may be comprised of a metal or metal alloy such as stainless steel spring tempered stainless steel stainless steel alloys gold platinum super elastic alloys cobalt chromium alloys and other cobalt containing alloys including ELGILOY Combined Metals of Chicago Grove Village Ill. PHYNOX Alloy Wire International United Kingdom and CONICHROME Carpenter Technology Corporation Wyomissing Pa. titanium containing alloys platinum tungsten alloys nickel containing alloys nickel titanium alloys including nitinol malleable metals including tantalum a composite material or a clad composite material and or other functionally equivalent materials and or a polymeric non biodegradable or biodegradable material. Representative examples of polymers that may be included in the implant construction include polyethylene polypropylene polyurethanes polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate e.g. DACRON or MYLAR E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company Wilmington Del. polyamides polyaramids e.g. KEVLAR from E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company polyfluorocarbons such as poly tetrafluoroethylene with and without copolymerized hexafluoropropylene available e.g. under the trade name TEFLON E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company silk as well as the mixtures blends and copolymers of these polymers. Stents also may be made with engineering plastics such as thermotropic liquid crystal polymers LCP such as those formed from p p dihydroxy polynuclear aromatics or dicarboxy polynuclear aromatics.

Further types of implants e.g. stents that can be used with the described therapeutic agents are described e.g. in PCT Publication No. WO 01 01957 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 165 210 6 099 561 6 071 305 6 063 101 5 997 468 5 980 551 5 980 566 5 972 027 5 968 092 5 951 586 5 893 840 5 891 108 5 851 231 5 843 172 5 837 008 5 766 237 5 769 883 5 735 811 5 700 286 5 683 448 5 679 400 5 665 115 5 649 977 5 637 113 5 591 227 5 551 954 5 545 208 5 500 013 5 464 450 5 419 760 5 411 550 5 342 348 5 286 254 and 5 163 952. Removable drug eluting stents are described e.g. in Lambert T. 1993 J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 21 483A. Moreover the stent may be adapted to release the desired agent at only the distal ends or along the entire body of the stent.

In addition to using the more traditional stents stents that are specifically designed for drug delivery can be used. Examples of these specialized drug delivery stents as well as traditional stents include those from Conor Medsystems Palo Alto Calif. e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 527 799 6 293 967 6 290 673 6 241 762 U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0199970 and 2003 0167085 and PCT Publication No. WO 03 015664 .

Other examples of stents that can be used in accordance with the invention include those from Boston Scientific Corporation e.g. the drug eluting TAXUS EXPRESSPaclitaxel Eluting Coronary Stent System over the wire stent stents such as the ExpressCoronary Stent System and NIR Elite OTW Stent System rapid exchange stents such as the EXPRESSCoronary Stent System and the NIR ELITE MONORAIL Stent System and self expanding stents such as the MAGIC WALLSTENT Stent System and RADIUS Self Expanding Stent Medtronic Inc. Minneapolis Minn. e.g. DRIVER ABT578 eluting stent DRIVER ZIPPER MX Multi Exchange Coronary Stent System and the DRIVER Over the Wire Coronary Stein System the S7 ZIPPER MX Multi Exchange Coronary Stent System S7 S670 S660 and BESTENT2 with Discrete Technology Over the Wire Coronary Stent System Guidant Corporation e.g. cobalt chromium stents such as the MULTI LINK VISION Coronary Stent System MULTI LINK ZETA Coronary Stent System MULTI LINK PIXEL Coronary Stent System MULTI LINK ULTRA Coronary Stent System and the MULTI LINK FRONTIER Johnson Johnson Cordis Corporation e.g. CYPHER sirolimus eluting Stent PALMAZ SCHATZ Balloon Expandable Stent and S.M.A.R.T. Stents Abbott Vascular Redwood City Calif. e.g. MATRIX LO Stein TRIMAXX Stent and DEXAMET stent Conor Medsystems Menlo Park Calif. e.g. MEDSTENT and COSTAR stent AMG GmbH Germany e.g. PICO Elite stent Biosensors International Singapore e.g. MATRIX stent CHAMPION Stent formerly the S STENT and CHALLENGE Stent Biotronik Switzerland e.g. MAGIC AMS stent Clearstream Technologies Ireland e.g. CLEARFLEX stent Cook Inc. Bloomington Ind. e.g. V FLEX PLUS stent ZILVER PTX self expanding vascular stent coating LOGIX PTX stent in development Devax e.g. AXXESS stent Irvine Calif. DISA Vascular Pty Ltd South Africa e.g. CHROMOFLEX Stent S FLEX Stent S FLEX Micro Stent and TAXOCHROME DES Intek Technology Baar Switzerland e.g. APOLLO stent Orbus Medical Technologies Hoevelaken The Netherlands e.g. GENOUS Sorin Biomedica Saluggia Italy e.g. JANUS and CARBOSTENT and stents from Bard Angiomed GmbH Medizintechnik KG Murray Hill N.J. and Blue Medical Supply Equipment Marietta Ga. Aachen Resonance GmbH Germany Eucatech AG Germany Eurocor GmbH Bonn Germany Prot Goodman Terumo Japan Translumina GmbH Germany MIV Therapeutics Canada Occam International B.V. Eindhoven The Netherlands Sahajanand Medical Technologies PVT LTD. India AVI Biopharma Medtronic Interventional Technologies Portland Oreg. e.g. RESTEN NG coated stent and Jomed e.g. FLEXMASTER drug eluting stem Sweden . Other types of stents can be in US20060147492A1 Medical implants and anti scarring agents. The entire content of US20060147492A1 is incorporated herein by reference.

Generally the implants are inserted in a similar fashion regardless of the site or the disease being treated. Briefly a preinsertion examination is conducted by direct visualization possible endoscopy and rarely diagnostic imaging. The areas of structural defects volume defects of dynamic collapse of the nose are noted. The implant size and material is selected to suit the particular application where more than one implant material and size may be available.

Topical local anesthetic may be applied by a combination of topical anesthetic cream applied to the skin e.g. 4 lidocaine cream available commercially and or topical anesthetic solution e.g 4 lidocaine solution applied on a cotton pledget in the nasal cavity. Local anesthetic may be infiltrated directly in the area where the implant will be placed or also injected to perform regional blocks such as an infraorbital nerve block.

The implant is then introduced through an injection technique as illustrated in this patent for example see . The implant is introduced through the injection method into the desired location in the nasal tissues. The introducing needle is gradually withdrawn while the implant is maintained in its desired position by means of the advancement shaft of the introduction device. Generally the puncture site performed by the introduction needle is small and does not require repair.

After insertion the implant shape may be adjusted manually. In some situations a special condition is applied to allow for adjustment of the shape of the implant. For example in the case of an implant with certain physical properties heat may be applied by external application of a heating pad to the nose. This is transmitted through the tissue to the implant which raises its temperature. The shape of the implant is then adjusted to the desired shape and the external heat source is removed. The implant then maintains this new shape as it is cools.

A post insertion examination is performed to visually confirm that the desired structural and shape change to the nose has been achieved. Rarely diagnostic imaging or endoscopy may also be used at this stage.

Implants are typically maneuvered into place directed by visual and tactile control. In certain aspects the implant e.g. stent can further include a radio opaque echogenic material or MRI responsive material e.g. MRI contrast agent to aid in visualization of the device under ultrasound fluoroscopy and or magnetic resonance imaging. The radio opaque or MRI visible material may be in the form of one or more markers e.g. bands of material that are disposed on either end of the implant .

As suitable implant materials both organic and inorganic materials as well as combinations thereof may be used. The material of the implant may be solid e.g. titanium nitinol or Gore tex braided or woven from a single material such as titanium or Polyethylene Terephthalate or a combination of materials . The woven materials may have pores which allow ingrowth of tissue after implantation. It may be manufactured from biodegradable materials e.g poly L lactic Poly D lactic and poly L glycolic acid which will gradually absorb after implantation. It may be malleable allowing adjustment of the shape before or after implantation.

Synthetic polymers provide for very suitable organic implant e.g. stent materials. Advantages of such polymers include the ability to tailor mechanical properties and degradation kinetics to suit various applications. Synthetic polymers are also attractive because they can be fabricated into various shapes. Numerous synthetic polymers can be used to prepare synthetic polymer comprising stents useful in aspects of the invention. They may be obtained from sources such as Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. Polysciences Warrenton Pa. Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. Fluka Ronkonkoma N.Y. and BioRad Richmond Calif.

Representative synthetic polymers include alkyl cellulose cellulose esters cellulose ethers hydroxyalkyl celluloses nitrocelluloses polyalkylene glycols polyalkylene oxides polyalkylene terephthalates polyalkylenes polyamides polyanhydrides polycarbonates polyesters polyglycolides polymers of acrylic and methacrylic esters polyacrylamides polyorthoesters polyphe azenes polysiloxanes polyurethanes polyvinyl ohols polyvinyl esters polyvinyl ethers polyvinyl halides polyvinylpyrrolidone poly ether ether ketone s silicone based polymers and blends and copolymers of the above. The stent may comprise both oligomers and polymers of the above.

Specific examples of these broad classes of polymers include poly methyl methacrylate poly ethyl methacrylate poly butyl methacrylate poly isobutyl methacrylate poly hexyl methacrylate poly isodecyl methacrylate poly lauryl methacrylate poly phenyl methacrylate poly methyl acrylate poly isopropyl acrylate poly isobutyl acrylate poly octadecyl acrylate polyethylene polypropylene poly ethylene glycol poly ethylene oxide poly ethylene terephthalate poly vinyl alcohols poly vinyl acetate poly vinyl chloride polystyrene polyurethane poly lactic acid poly butyric acid poly valeric acid poly lactide co glycolide poly fumaric acid poly maleic acid copolymers of poly caprolactone or poly lactic acid with polyethylene glycol and blends thereof.

The polymers used in implants e.g. stents may be non biodegradable. Examples of preferred non biodegradable polymers include ethylene vinyl acetate EVA poly meth acrylic acid polyamides silicone based polymers and copolymers and mixtures thereof.

Polymers used in implants e.g. stents may also be biodegradable. The rate of degradation of the biodegradable stent is determined by factors such as configurational structure copolymer ratio crystallinity molecular weight morphology stresses amount of residual monomer porosity and site of implantation. The skilled person will be able to choose the combination of factors and characteristics such that the rate of degradation is optimized.

Examples of preferred biodegradable polymers include synthetic polymers such as polyesters polyanhydrides poly ortho esters polyurethanes siloxane based polyurethanes poly butyric acid tyrosine based polycarbonates and natural polymers and polymers derived therefrom such as albumin alginate casein chitin ch embedded image not shown osan collagen dextran elastin proteoglycans gelati embedded image not shown and other hydrophilic proteins glutin zein and other prolamines and hydrophobic proteins starch and other polysaccharides including cellulose and derivatives thereof e.g. methyl cellulose ethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose hydroxybutyl methyl cellulose carboxymethyl cellulose cellulose acetate cellulose propionate cellulose acetate butyrate cellulose acetate phthalate cellulose acetate succinate hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate cellulose triacetate cellulose sulphate poly 1 lysine polyethylenimine poly allyl amine polyhyaluronic acids and combinations copolymers mixtures and chemical derivatives thereof substitutions additions of chemical groups for example alkyl alkylene hydroxylations oxidations and other modifications routinely made by those skilled in the art . In general these materials degrade either by enzymatic hydrolysis or exposure to water in vivo by surface or bulk erosion. The foregoing materials may be used alone as physical mixtures blends or as a co polymer.

Other polymers are polyesters polyanhydrides polystyrenes and blends thereof. The polyesters and polyanhydrides are advantageous due to their ease of degradation by hydrolysis of ester linkage degradation products being resorbed through the metabolic pathways of the body in some cases and because of their potential to tailor the structure to alter degradation rates. The mechanical properties of the biodegradable material are preferably selected such that early degradation and concomitant loss of mechanical strength required for its functioning as a structure supporting implant is prevented.

Biodegradable polyesters are for instance poly glycolic acid PGA poly lactic acid PLA poly glycolic co lactic acid PGLA poly dioxanone poly caprolactone PCL poly 3 hydroxybutyrate PHB poly 3 hydroxyvalerate PHV poly lactide co caprolactone PLCL poly valerolactone PVL poly tartronic acid poly malonic acid poly propylene fumarate PPF preferably photo cross linkable poly ethylene glycol poly lactic acid PELA block copolymer poly L lactic acid e caprolactone copolymer and poly lactide poly ethylene glycol copolymers.

Biodegradable polyanhydrides are for instance poly 1 6 bis carboxyphenoxy hexane poly fumaric co sebacic acid or P FA SA and such polyanhydrides may be used in the form of copolymers with polyimides or poly anhydrides co imides such as poly trimellitylimidoglycine co bis carboxyphenoxy hexane poly pyromellitylimidoalanine co 1 6 bis p carboph enoxy hexane poly sebacic acid co 1 6 bis p carboxyphenoxy hexane or P SA CPH and poly sebacic acid co 1 3 bis p carboxyphenoxy propane or P SA CPP .

Other suitable stent materials are biocompatible materials that are accepted by the tissue surface. The broad term biocompatible includes also nontoxicity noncarcinogenity chemical inertness and stability of the material in the living body. Exemplary biocompatible materials are titanium alumina zirconia stainless steel cobalt and alloys thereof and ceramic materials derived therefrom such as ZrO2 and or Al2O3.

As examples of inorganic implants e.g. stents materials calcium phosphate matrices CaP and hydroxyapatite HA matrices may be used wherein HA may optionally be combined with tricalcium phosphate to form such compounds as biphasic calcium phosphate BCP . CaP sintered hydroxyapatite and bioactive glasses or ceramics such as 45S5 Bioglass US Biomaterials Corp USA and apatite and wollastonite containing glass ceramic glass ceramic A W may also be used. Very suitable matrix materials are the combined materials such as osteoinductive hydroxyapatite HA TCP matrices preferably BCP.

One form of the nasal implant described here is introduced through an injection device. The implant A is elongated in shape having a length L and side profile P . The side profile may be oval in shape rectangular or tapered at the ends and . Furthermore it may be a hollow cylinder or made of a composite of materials or a braid of wires. They are introduced into the nose non surgically through an injection device. The injection route may include transcutaneous route i.e. through the nasal skin or transmucosally through the internal mucosa of the nose. The intention of this device is that it be introduced under local anesthetic.

The nasal implant may also incorporate an introduction needle and suture and or a trailing suture . This provides an alternative method for introduction of the implant. The guiding needle is introduced through the skin or mucosa and tracked along the desired path to the location chosen for the implant and then to a location where it exits the body such as through the skin. This guiding needle is introduced and guided by the physicians fingers or using standard medical instruments. This method for introduction of the implant which includes a pull through and trailing sutures is illustrated in . After introduction of the pull through suture shown in the guiding needle may be cut off. The implant is then introduced with the injection device in with the guidance of the pull through suture as illustrated in . Alternatively it may be introduced without an injection device but simply by guiding it to the desired location by gently pulling on the pull through suture. The trailing suture can also be used to make adjustments to the position of the implant in situ. When the desired position is accomplished the pull through suture and the trailing sutures are cut. The suture can be made of absorbable material. The suture may have a diameter similar to the diameter of the implant or be smaller or larger.

The injector device allows the introduction of the implant into the body through an injection technique. Shown in it incorporates the nasal implant FIG. an introducing needle FIG. . The implants are introduced through an injection device either through the transcutaneous route or through the nasal mucosa. The implant is placed through a straight introducer device or a specially curved introducer device or may be malleable to allow for special shaping of the needle prior to injection.

These implants may be placed adjacent to the upper lateral cartilage below the nasal surface as illustrated in . This will apply lateral force to the medial portion of the lateral nasal cartilage stenting the internal nasal valves open. This is an alternative to the spreader grafts currently placed surgically.

The implants may be placed adjacent to the lateral edge of the lower lateral cartilages. The implants may extend to the bony process of the anterior maxillary bone as illustrated in . This will secure the lateral cartilage more securely to the maxillary bone preventing lateral nasal collapse. These implants may be placed to secure the external valve in place of alar batten grafts that are now employed and are applied surgically. They may be inserted overlying or underlying the lateral surface of the lower lateral cartilage.

The implants may have a straight or curved shape. Alternately they may have a malleable property and can have the shape adjusted after implantation. They may also have shape memory properties such as composed of Nitinol which allows for their shape to assume a predetermined shape after implantation. Use of inserts made of materials which have shape memory properties permit the implant to assume a preset shape after insertion. Alternately certain conditions may be applied such as application of heat cold light or a magnetic field that will allow the material to assume a desired fixed or modified shape after implantation. The necessary condition will depend on the intrinsic properties of the shape memory material chosen to produce the implant. The fixed shape of the implant may also be adjusted before or after insertion. The implant may be composed of biodegradable materials with or without shape memory.

Another aspect of this invention provides for the use of the described injectable implants for cosmetic changes to the nose. The implants may be introduced transcutaneously or transmucosally to improve the structural strength of the nasal cartilages or to fill defects in the nasal contours. Examples of proposed areas where the implants can be placed include locations adjacent to the lower lateral cartilage as lateral alar implants in the mid nasal region and the nasal dorsum or the collumella as illustrated in and .

The first is a 1.4 cm long 0.8 mm thick titanium rod that is incorporated in a 16 gauge injection needle. This is designed for use into the lateral nasal wall which supports the external valve. The implant is injected in a fashion similar to the technique illustrated in . The currently preferred method of introduction is transmucosally from inside the vestibule of the nose . The implant is placed between the lower lateral cartilage and the nasal mucosa and extends over the maxillary bone. When placed it appears similar to the implant I shown in . One implant is placed for each side of the nose if bilateral valve collapse is present. After implantation the shape of the implant can be adjusted by molding the shape of the titanium implant.

In another example a 1.8 cm long and 1 mm thick rod manufactured from a 85 15 poly L lactide co glycolide polymer has been produced. It is introduced using a 14 gauge needle. This polymer is bio absorbable. It is inserted transcutaneously over the medial portion of the nose similar to the one shown in . After implantation the material has some structural strength and by providing an upward force on the medial portion of the upper lateral cartilage it supports the internal nasal valve preventing its collapse. The shape of the implant can be adjusted after implantation by temporarily placing a heating pad at 64 degrees Celsius on the surface of the nose. This temperature is tolerated by the human nose for a brief period of time. The temperature is transmitted to the implant and at such a temperature the polymer softens and the implant shape can manually adjusted. The implant retains the new shape as it cools.

The third example used is a tapered rod with an oval shaped cross section similar to the implant shown in . The implant dimensions may be trimmed prior to implantation depending on the particular size desired for the particular patient to be implanted. This implant is manufactured from a porous polyethylene. It is inert non absorbable and has a porous structural surface which allows for fibrovascular tissue ingrowth. It is introduced through a 14 gauge needle into the dorsum of the nose filling in volume defects in the nose. This is similar to the DI implant shown .

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art of molecular biology. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described herein. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

