---

title: Method and device for generating a presentation
abstract: A computer-implemented method of generating a presentation including a plurality of slides, the method comprising: storing a first slide and a second slide, each slide having one or more content elements; selecting, based on the one or more content elements of the first slide or the second slide or both, a slide transition from a set of slide transitions, each slide transition in the set of slide transitions defining how display of one slide changes to display of another slide; displaying the first slide; and, subsequently changing display of the first slide to display of the second slide in accordance with the selected slide transition. An electronic device and computer program product are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098512&OS=09098512&RS=09098512
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09098512
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120928
---
The disclosed embodiments relate to an electronic device and a method of generating a presentation. In particular the disclosed embodiments relate to a method of generating a presentation including a plurality of slides.

Typically when designing a presentation using conventional presentation tools the author will design the presentation using a standard slide transition for each slide. The slide transition defines how the display one slide changes into the display of another slide. For example the author may choose that the content of the slide animates into the slide from the left.

Although this slide transition may be appropriate for some content types and sizes this transition may look ugly and cumbersome for others. When designing the presentation manually choosing an appropriate slide transition may be frustrating and time consuming. This problem is exacerbated on portable electronic devices where the user input and interface is limited in functionality such that manually defining the slide transitions becomes even more awkward. If design is automated it may not be appropriate to select a slide transition for all slides of a presentation.

It is desirable to improve the readability of a presentation and its appearance to an audience and therefore improve audience enjoyment understanding interest and participation.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a computer implemented method of generating a presentation including a plurality of slides. The method comprising storing a first slide and a second slide each slide having one or more content elements selecting based on the one or more content elements of the first slide or the second slide or both a slide transition from a set of slide transitions each slide transition in the set of slide transitions defining how display of one slide changes to display of another slide displaying the first slide and subsequently changing display of the first slide to display of the second slide in accordance with the selected slide transition. In this way the audience interactivity with the presentation is dramatically improved and the visual appearance of the presentation is enhanced thus improving the readability. Cumbersome and time consuming manual input and editing is obviated.

The selecting may be based on the number of content elements in the first slide or the number of content elements in the second slide or both. In this way if there is a small number of content elements on the slide an appropriate slide transition will be selected which may be different from an appropriate slide transition for a large number of content elements.

The selecting may be based on content type of the one or more content elements of the first slide or the content type of the one or more content elements of the second slide or both. Thus for example image or text elements may have different transitions.

The selecting may be based on a characteristic of the one or more content elements of the first slide or a characteristic of the one or more content elements of the second slide or both the characteristic defining an aspect of the graphical appearance and layout of the one or more content elements. In this way the transitions are tailored to the content elements of the slides. The characteristic may be selected from the group consisting of type face font weight font size font colour image contrast image saturation font contrast font saturation background colour and background effect.

The selecting may be based on one or more dimensions of the respective region covered by the one or more content elements of the first slide or the region covered by the one or more content elements of the second slide or both. In this way a large content element may have a different transition to a small content element that is the content element will cover a larger region on the slide.

The selecting may be based on comparison of the one or more content elements of the first slide with the one or more content elements of the second slide. The transition between slides is therefore made as seamless as possible.

The first slide or second slide or both may contain a plurality of content elements of different content types and wherein the slide transition selected may define a different animation for each content type. In this way different content types may have different transitions so as to appear in the most visually appealing way to the user.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided an electronic device for generating a presentation including a plurality of slides the device comprising one or more processors and memory comprising instructions which when executed by one or more of the processors cause the electronic device to store a first slide and a second slide each slide having one or more content elements select based on the one or more content elements of the first slide or the second slide or both a slide transition from a set of slide transitions each slide transition in the set of slide transitions defining how display of one slide changes to display of another slide display the first slide and subsequently change display of the first slide to display of the second slide in accordance with the selected slide transition.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure there may be provided a computer program product for generating a presentation including a plurality of slides the computer program product comprising memory comprising instructions which when executed by one or more of the processors of an electronic device cause the electronic device to store a first slide and a second slide each slide having one or more content elements select based on the one or more content elements of the first slide or the second slide or both a slide transition from a set of slide transitions each slide transition in the set of slide transitions defining how display of one slide changes to display of another slide display the first slide and subsequently change display of the first slide to display of the second slide in accordance with the selected slide transition.

The present disclosure is described in the context of an electronic device and particularly a portable electronic device. However the skilled person would understand that the present disclosure is applicable to any presentation software and any electronic device. Examples of portable electronic devices include mobile or handheld wireless communication devices such as pagers cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants wirelessly enabled notebook computers wirelessly enabled tablet computers and so forth. The portable electronic device may also be a portable electronic device without wireless communication capabilities such as a handheld electronic game device digital photograph album tablet computer digital camera or other device.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. It will be appreciated that one or more of the electronic devices suitable for use with the present disclosure may be of a type which differs from the electronic device of and that some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which implement the principles of the present disclosure.

In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. It will however be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed above.

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computers such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a controller including one or more processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame which surrounds the display . In such example embodiments the frame may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some example embodiments the electronic device may include a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analogue to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analogue D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analogue output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device may in at least some example embodiments include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

The electronic device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some example embodiments an electronic device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some example embodiments the electronic device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some example embodiments each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device and or the housing of the electronic device . In such example embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some example embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . The short range communication subsystem may be used to provide a common user interface UI mode between the electronic device and another electronic device which may in at least some example embodiments be an electronic device which is the same or similar to the electronic device discussed with reference to . In at least some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device may in some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

As discussed above electronic devices may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments one or more of the electronic devices which are configured to enter a common user interface mode with another electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

In at least some example embodiments the one or more of the electronic devices may be a tablet computer. Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a tablet computer is illustrated.

The tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However the tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

A frame surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some example embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the electronic device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of the tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other example embodiments.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Public speakers giving talks in the business and education fields often make use of visual aids. Ever since the advent of Microsoft s PowerPoint program a common visual aid has been a slide based presentation consisting of a set of slides which are displayed to the audience. The term slide in the present context is a metaphor for photographic slides small glass or plastic transparencies through which light was projected that prior to the digital information age were commonly used to display a sequence of images to audiences. The slides generated and shown via presentation software are actually digital information comprising text and images. Each slide generally acts as a visual aid to a portion of the talk given by the speaker. The speaker will advance through the set of slides as the talk progresses so that the audience sees the visual aid most relevant to that portion of the talk. The set of slides is usually referred to as a presentation or as a slide based presentation the two terms will be used interchangeably throughout the present description.

Generally the presentation is displayed to the audience on an external display that either reflects or emits light. Often a projector is used to project each slide onto a surface the audience can see such as a reflective screen designed for the purpose or even a bare wall the audience sees each slide as light reflected by the external display the screen or wall . Alternatively the presentation is displayed using a large monitor again suitable for viewing by the audience members such as an LCD LED or plasma monitor in such case the audience sees each slide as light emitted by the external display the monitor . An additional element of the presentation is typically a set of notes for the presenter. These notes are not displayed to the audience but may be shown on the electronic device so that only the presenter can see them.

Although the presentation may be displayed using a projector or a monitor the content of the presentation itself is often provided to the projector or monitor using a separate electronic device. It will be understood that the device may alternatively be integral with the projector or monitor. The separate electronic device may be in the form of a personal computer smartphone or tablet device such as those described above. The speaker may control the presentation using an input device integral with the separate electronic device or using a separate remote control.

A presentation program is a computer software package which is often used to generate and present a presentation. The functionality of such a program typically includes the ability to load and store presentations the ability to edit presentations by adding deleting and altering elements text images and other features such as bullets hyperlinks and buttons to trigger sounds or videos and modes of animating slides by for example revealing moving or hiding elements or transitioning between consecutive slides and the ability to show the presentation by means of an external display in either a fully automated manner a semi automated manner or a fully speaker controlled manner.

In a slide based presentation a presentation is made up of many slides each of which may provide a different arrangement of elements. Although slide based presentations are the most common type used the proposed solution is envisioned to be applicable to more complex presentations as well. For example a presentation may not be made up of a set of discrete slides but may instead be made up of one large continuous arrangement of elements that covers a larger area than the display and which may be traversed to display different regions of the arrangement of elements at a time. In another example embodiment the presentation may be dynamically generated where the arrangement of elements is automatically generated based on real time user input and context based intelligence and therefore the slide is simply the current arrangement of elements being presented.

In a slide based presentation a theme defines the layout of the content elements on the slide as well as the graphical appearance of each content element. For example the theme may define that if a slide is to have a title it is to be placed along a central vertical axis of the slide and substantially near to the top when the slide is displayed. The theme may also define that the title may have a particular font face font size font weight and colour and may or may not be placed in front of a coloured background region.

It will be understood that the above are merely examples and it will be clear that there are any number of characteristics possible that may define the graphical appearance and layout of a presentation. The characteristics of the elements can be set independently. For example single paragraphs and images can have a different appearance. Paragraphs with different settings can be rendered on the same slide.

As briefly mentioned above a slide transition defines how the display of one slide changes into the display of another. The slide transition defines how paragraphs images and bullets for example are animated when they appear on the screen and when they disappear. All types of transformations and transparency modifications can combine to create an individual slide transition. In a very simple exemplary slide transition the content elements currently being displayed on the slide may fade away that is become increasingly transparent until they disappear and the next set of content elements may fade into view that is become increasingly opaque until they are fully displayed. In another simple example the content elements may move from outside the boundaries of the slide to their final display position. Multiple animations can be combined to form a complete slide transition. For example the displayed content elements can fade away whilst the upcoming content elements of the next slide can move into position from outside of the slide boundaries.

Generally slide transitions in presentation software are highly customisable. In the fade example briefly described above the fade could be customised by setting at least the duration and opacity of the fade. Additionally slide transitions may be both audio and visual for example the fade above may be accompanied by a sound matching the fade.

As well as the location of the elements on the screen and the movement of the elements as they approach their final resting location the characteristics described above in the context of a theme may contribute to a slide transition. For example a block of text may increase from a small font size to a final font size when the block of text appears on the slide. Generally slide transitions are the animation of the content items as they appear on the slide and then further animation as they disappear from view. The slide transition may govern the appearance and disappearance of individual content elements independently or the slide of content elements as a whole.

To further explain the concept of a slide transition a number of specific examples of slide transitions will be described. In a first example a slide slide transition may comprise a content element such as an image starting outside the boundaries of the displayed slide and horizontally moving into a final position on the displayed slide. In this transition the content element may move from the left or the right provided the movement is substantially horizontal when it appears on the display and moves into its final position. The movement of the element thus mimics a slide movement.

In a flip transition example one or more of the content elements on the slide may rotate until they are no longer visible that is the reverse side of the element not shown in normal display has the same colour or effect as the background of the slide. The content elements of the second slide which is to be viewed after the first slide may also rotate into view in the same or in an opposing direction.

In a zoom transition example the content elements of the slide may start small and progressively increase in size until they reach their final display size. Of course the zoom could be reversed and the content elements may start large and decrease in size until they reach their final display size.

In a fly transition example the content elements may start outside the boundaries of the slide and move into their final position at a particular angle so that it appears the elements are flying. The angle itself may be curved in some transitions.

In a push transition example the content elements may appear onto the slide vertically starting from a position outside the boundaries of the slide. When the content elements are removed from the slide they may disappear vertically but in the opposite direction from which they appeared. Thus the content elements appear to be pushed off the slide by the content elements of the arriving slide. Although it is described that this push transition may be vertical in fact the movement of the elements may be any arbitrary angle provided that the content elements disappear at the opposite angle from which they arrived.

In a cover transition example the content elements of the arriving slide are moved into position while the content elements of the previous slide remain in place. It thus appears that the content elements of the second slide cover the content elements of the first slide.

Some transitions are particularly suited to certain types of content. For example a dissolve transition example may be particularly suited to transitioning to or from an image. In the dissolve transition small portions of the content element are taken away or inserted until the complete content element is produced or removed. When this content element is text the transition is not smooth because a large portion of the content element is blank space.

In other slide transitions the entire slide may be treated as a whole where the content elements are not transitioned individually. Of course this approach is equally applicable to the slide transitions described above. Slide transitions which are particularly suited to the whole slide include a shuffle transition where the slide is treated like a card of a pack of cards and the approaching slide is shuffled into place replacing the previous slide. In a rotate transition example the entire slide is rotated in one direction with the next slide being rotated into place in the same direction. This results in the slides appearing to be positioned on two adjacent sides of a cube with the cube being rotated in order to display the next slide.

As is clear from the above there are myriad slide transitions possible. A slide transition can be considered to be a transformation or transparency modification from one slide to the next.

In accordance with the present disclosure a presentation generation engine or presentation software may be operable to determine the most appropriate slide transition to be used to change display from one slide to another based on the content of the slides. The transition selected may be based on the content of the first slide or the content of the second slide. The selection may take place automatically by the presentation generation engine or the presentation software.

To demonstrate this concept in a first example a first slide may include a text paragraph. The presenter indicates that the presentation should move to the next slide that is the second slide. This slide also includes a text paragraph. The slide transition selected for this transition is based on the fact that a text paragraph is changing to another text paragraph. In this example the chosen transition dictates that the first paragraph will move towards the top and gradually fade out with a mask. A mask determines the opacity of a content element. The new paragraph animates in from below in a similar manner.

If instead of a text paragraph the second slide contains an image the slide transition chosen may be different because the software has determined that the slide transition is going from a text paragraph to an image. In this example the slide transition dictates that the text paragraph moves to the left and fades out with a mask while the image appears from the same place and moves to the right. In this way the slide transition is entirely appropriate to the content and the visual appeal of the presentation is improved whilst minimising the manual user input. In this specific example a content element appears to pushed off the screen by one the same type but a content element appears to be replaced by one of a different type. The audience member thus appreciates the seamless transition from one slide to another.

In the two examples described above the slide transition is based on the type of the content elements such as text or image. In addition to the slide transition being chosen on the basis of the type of the content element of the slide the slide transition may be selected based on the size of the content element or the dimensions of region occupied by the element on the slide. For example a different slide transition may be used for a small image to a large image. A large image for example might suit a dissolve transition described above because it uses are large amount of the displayed slide. This transition may be unsuitable for a small image because the blocks used to put together or dissolve the image may be too small for the audience to see. A small image like this may be more suited to a fly transition where it appears from outside the boundaries of the slide. Since it is small it has space to move into position. A large image might not suit a fly transition because it has no space to move before it reaches its final position. In another example a zoom from small to large transition would not suit a small image but would suit a large image and vice versa for a zoom from large to small transition.

In a further example if a paragraph of text is too long to fit inside the specified layout region that has been reserved for paragraphs the paragraph can automatically be split into two or more virtual paragraphs that are handled as two separate pieces of text. The transition from the first part to the second part is faster and uses different start positions than a transition between two normal paragraphs to indicate that these two virtual paragraphs belong together. For example the first part can animate down and dock with the second part. Both parts can animate upwards towards the centre and then the first part can animate out of the slide upwards while the second part stays in the centre. Thus the transition signifies to the user that the two parts of the paragraph belong together. If the selection of the transition was not based on the content elements then the two parts might use a push transition which might indicate that the text elements are distinct and unrelated.

Referring now to a number of more specific examples will be described. Each of illustrates the display at a particular point in time. In the first illustration a number of content elements are shown. A title is position to the left of the slide separated from the region designated for the detailed content of the slide by a separating bar . For the purposes of this illustration it is assumed that the previous slide showed merely the title and the separating bar . The illustration in shows the slide transition of a text content element the text content element moving into place. Arrow shows the movement of the text content element . In this particular slide transition the text content is gradually made more opaque as it moves into position. In the implementation the opacity will most likely be controlled with a mask.

Once the text element has disappeared from view the next slide is ready to be transitioned into view. In this instance the next slide contains an image content element . The presentation generation engine or presentation software determines that the content element is an image and selects the slide transition accordingly. In the slide transition illustrated in the title remains in place. The separating bar expands to match the size of the content element. The image content element moves in the direction indicated by arrow and appears from out of the separating bar . The image content element gradually appears and becomes more opaque as it moves into view. As will be seen the slide transition for the image content element is different from the slide transition for the text content element .

In the example illustrated in a slide transition between a slide showing a title and a slide showing a text content element is shown. In the title is shown emboldened and with a large font size with a separator bar to its right. illustrates the slide transition that will occur when the presentation generation engine or presentation software has determined that the first slide contains a title content element and the second slide i.e. the next slide to be displayed in the set contains a text content element.

The title is reduced in size and the separator bar progressively moves in the direction indicated by arrow as the title reduces in size. At the same time the text content element appears out of the separator bar in the direction indicated by arrow . illustrates the final resting position of these elements. The title is positioned at its final small size to the left of the separator bar as also illustrated in and the text content element is fully opaque and positioned to the right of the separator bar and is entirely visible. No part of the text content element is hidden behind the separator bar .

As is clear from the above the slide transition between slides and for individual content elements of the slides is different depending on the nature and characteristics of the content elements themselves. The examples illustrated should be considered as examples which merely illustrate the concepts described. There are of course myriad slide transitions possible. What is key is that the slide transition is selected based on the content of the displayed slide the next content of the next slide in the set of slides or both.

In a further exemplary embodiment the automatic transition generation could be used for doing a live performance when showing a presentation. The presentation control user interface provided on the electronic device could have two or more different buttons which are used to indicate that the next slide should be displayed. Each button signifies a different slide transition. the automatic slide transition may select two or more appropriate transitions which have different properties. The presenter can then choose which of the appropriate slide transitions to use. For example one of the options given to the presenter will be the standard slide transition that may be simple and fast. Another of the options may be more grandiose where the presenter wants to emphasise the next slide or piece of content. Each slide transition in this example the standard and grandiose options may be appropriate to the content of the slide and may be selected by the software according to the content. The slide transitions selected by the software may be tailored according to the properties or emphasis the presenter is trying to achieve.

The embodiments described above are merely illustrative of particular implementations and are not meant to be restrictive. Various adaptations modifications and combinations of the described embodiments can be made while remaining within the scope of the claims appended.

