---

title: Method for diagnosing abnormality in tissue samples by combination of mass spectral and optical imaging
abstract: The invention generally relates to mass spectral analysis. In certain embodiments, methods of the invention involve analyzing a lipid containing sample using a mass spectrometry technique, in which the technique utilizes a liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology during analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09157921&OS=09157921&RS=09157921
owner: Purdue Research Foundation
number: 09157921
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 487 363 filed May 18 2011 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under EB009459 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Imaging mass spectrometry MS is currently in its translational phase as a tool in medical histopathology. Many biological applications are being pursued due to its capability to provide comprehensive information on the distribution of multiple endogenous and exogenous molecules within animal tissues van Hove ERA Smith D F Heeren R M A 2010 J. Chromatogr. A 1217 25 3946 3954 Watrous J D Alexandrov T Dorrestein P C 2011 Journal of Mass Spectrometry 46 2 209 222 . Imaging MS has the capability of mapping drugs metabolites lipids peptides and proteins in thin tissue sections with high specificity and without the need of fluorescent or radioactive labeling normally used in histochemical protocols Schwamborn K Caprioli R M 2010 Mol. Oncol. 4 6 529 538 and Chughtai K Heeren R M A 2010 Chem. Rev. 110 5 3237 3277 .

Within the imaging MS techniques Alberici R M et al. 2010 Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry 398 1 265 294 ambient ionization techniques such as desorption electrospray ionization mass spectrometry DESI MS have been rapidly emerging and have the advantage of being performed at atmospheric pressure without the need for sample preparation Ifa D R Wu C P Ouyang Z Cooks R G 2010 Analyst 135 4 669 681 . Other imaging techniques such as matrix assisted laser desorption ionization MALDI Oppenheimer S R Mi D M Sanders M E Caprioli R M 2010 Journal of Proteome Research 9 5 2182 2190 and secondary ion mass spectrometry SIMS Fletcher J S Vickerman J C 2010 Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry 396 1 85 104 are commonly performed under high vacuum conditions and the former requires careful sample preparation through the application of a matrix. More recently much effort has been put towards advancing ambient imaging mass spectrometry within the biomedical field especially in cancer diagnostics Dill A L Eberlin L S Ifa D R Cooks R G 2011 Chemical Communications 47 10 2741 2746 . The prospect of improving the accuracy of histopathological cancer evaluation by adding chemical information to the morphological microscopic analysis especially related to cancer diagnosis and grading represents an attainable and relevant medical application. Nonetheless technical challenges remain and validation studies are still needed to successfully merge microscopic and mass spectrometric information into routine histopathology workflow.

As the ability of DESI MS as a diagnostic tool is demonstrated in many studies this capability must be validated through extensive chemical and microscopic examination of tissue sections and development of classification rules relating MS imaging molecular information to traditional pathology. The correlation between histology and DESI MS has thus far been performed by comparing the ion images obtained to the diagnosis from pathological evaluation of a serial hematoxylin and eosin H E stained section Masterson T A et al. 2010 Distinctive Glycerophospholipid Profiles of Human Seminoma and Adjacent Normal Tissues by Desorption Electrospray Ionization Imaging Mass Spectrometry. J. Am. Soc. Mass. Spectrom. in press . Even though this strategy is sufficient for optical image evaluation under routine microscopic pathology workflow practicality and unambiguous correlation demand the use of the same tissue section for morphological and MS imaging evaluation.

The first strategy reported for conducting histopathology and imaging MS analysis on the same tissue section was the development of MALDI imaging compatible dyes which provide limited histological details Chaurand P et al. 2004 Analytical Chemistry 76 4 1145 1155 . Tissue section staining after MALDI imaging spectra acquisition and matrix removal is considered the most promising approach to pair MALDI imaging and histological staining a strategy named post acquisition staining Crecelius A C et al. 2005 Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry 16 7 1093 1099 . As an ambient imaging MS technique DESI MS frees the user from the need of a homogeneous matrix deposition on the sample.

A limitation preventing DESI MS imaging compatibility with histochemistry is that the most common DESI solvent systems methanol water and acetonitrile water 1 1 v v completely destroy the native tissue morphology during analysis.

The present invention provides new methodologies by which mass spectral analysis of tissue such as ambient tissue imaging by desorption electrospray ionization mass spectrometry can be performed while morphology of the tissue section is kept intact or unmodified allowing subsequent analysis of the tissue by histochemistry or many other techniques to be performed. This is a new methodology for non destructive morphologically friendly tissue analysis by mass spectrometry techniques such as desorption electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Thus in certain aspects the invention provides methods for analyzing tissue that involve analyzing a tissue sample using a mass spectrometry technique in which the technique utilizes a liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology during analysis. In certain embodiments analyzing involves imaging a tissue section.

In certain embodiments methods of the invention allow extraction of lipid species from tissue during DESI MS analysis while morphology of the tissue remains undisturbed therefore allowing subsequent analysis to be performed on the same tissue section. Particularly methods of the invention allow high quality 2D DESI MS ion images to be directly compared and even overlaid with the H E stained tissue section allowing a better correlation between the spatial distribution of the lipid species detected and the substructures of a subject s brain. Pathological evaluation of the tissue sections confirmed that no morphological damage was caused to the tissue as a result of DESI MS imaging when using appropriate solvents.

Importantly methods of the invention allow for DESI MS imaging of any type of sample that includes lipids for example human or animal tissue plant tissue soil industrial chemical mixtures and cleaning materials. In certain embodiments the sample is human tissue. The human tissue may be epithelium tissue healthy or diseased such as cancerous bladder kidney and prostate tissue. In these embodiments DESI MS imaging may be performed on the tissue to obtain a molecular diagnosis and then the same tissue section can be used not only for H E staining but also for immunohistochemistry. These advancements allow DESI MS imaging to be included in the tissue analysis clinical workflow. They also allow more detailed diagnostic information to be obtained by combining two orthogonal techniques imaging MS and histological examination.

In other aspects the invention provides methods for imaging a lipid containing sample e.g. a tissue sample that involve imaging a lipid containing sample using a direct ambient ionization sampling technique in which the technique is performed in a manner that allows the sample to be subjected to further analysis after imaging.

Another aspect of the invention provides analysis methods that involve obtaining a lipid containing sample imaging the sample using a mass spectrometry technique in which the technique utilizes a liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology during analysis and performing a histochemistry analysis technique on the sample.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods for diagnosing cancer that involve obtaining a lipid containing sample imaging the sample using a mass spectrometry technique in which the technique utilizes a liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology during analysis performing a histochemistry analysis technique on the sample and diagnosing a cancer based results of the imaging and the performing steps.

Any mass spectrometry technique known in the art may be used with methods of the invention. Exemplary mass spectrometry techniques that utilize ionization sources at atmospheric pressure for mass spectrometry include electrospray ionization ESI Fenn et al. Science 246 64 71 1989 and Yamashita et al. J. Phys. Chem. 88 4451 4459 1984 atmospheric pressure ionization APCI Carroll et al. Anal. Chem. 47 2369 2373 1975 and atmospheric pressure matrix assisted laser desorption ionization AP MALDI Laiko et al. Anal. Chem. 72 652 657 2000 and Tanaka et al. Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom. 2 151 153 1988 . The content of each of these references in incorporated by reference herein its entirety.

Exemplary mass spectrometry techniques that utilize direct ambient ionization sampling methods including desorption electrospray ionization DESI Takats et al. Science 306 471 473 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 335 897 direct analysis in real time DART Cody et al. Anal. Chem. 77 2297 2302 2005 Atmospheric Pressure Dielectric Barrier Discharge Ionization DBDI Kogelschatz Plasma Chemistry and Plasma Processing 23 1 46 2003 and PCT international publication number WO 2009 102766 and electrospray assisted laser desoption ionization ELDI Shiea et al. J. Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 19 3701 3704 2005 . The content of each of these references in incorporated by reference herein its entirety.

In certain embodiments the mass spectrometry technique is desorption electrospray ionization DESI . DESI is an ambient ionization method that allows the direct ionization of species from thin tissue sections Takats et al. Science 306 471 473 2004 and Takats U.S. Pat. No. 7 335 897 . DESI MS imaging has been successfully used to diagnose multiple types of human cancers based on their lipid profiles detected directly from tissue Eberlin L S Ferreira C R Dill A L Ifa D R Cooks R G 2011 Desorption Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometry for Lipid Characterization and Biological Tissue Imaging. Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta Molecular And Cell Biology Of Lipids accepted .

Human bladder cancer and adjacent normal tissues were successfully distinguished on the basis of multiple marker lipids Cooks R G et al. 2011 Faraday Discussions 149 247 267 . Multivariate statistical analysis of the DESI MS imaging data by means of principal component analysis and partial least squares discriminant analysis allowed a successful correlation between DESI MS data and pathological evaluation in 88 of the cases analyzed Dill A L et al. 2011 Chemistry a European Journal 17 10 2897 2902 . DESI MS imaging was also applied for the diagnosis of human cancers including two types of kidney cancer Dill A L et al. 2010 Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry 398 7 8 2969 2978 human prostate cancer Eberlin LS et al. 2010 Analytical Chemistry 82 9 3430 3434 and the grading of brain gliomas WHO grade II grade III and grade IV glioblastoma Eberlin LS et al. 2010 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 49 34 5953 5956 . In addition to cancer diagnostics DESI MS imaging has been used to characterize tissues of other disease states such as chemically profiling and imaging of human arterial plaques with atherosclerosis Manicke N E et al. 2009 Analytical Chemistry 81 21 8702 8707 . In addition to the possibility of supplementing the DESI MS solvent with ionization facilitator compounds Jackson A U Shum T Sokol E Dill A Cooks R G 2011 Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry 399 1 367 376 a unique capability of DESI MS is the possibility to use reactants in the solvent to facilitate the ionization reactive DESI and detect important metabolic intermediates that can be difficult to ionize such as cholesterol Wu C P Ifa D R Manicke N E Cooks R G 2009 Analytical Chemistry 81 18 7618 7624 .

Operated in an imaging mode it uses a standard microprobe imaging procedure which in this case involves moving the probe spray continuously across the surface while recording mass spectra. See for example Wiseman et al. Nat. Protoc. 3 517 2008 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein its entirety. Each pixel yields a mass spectrum which can then be compiled to create an image showing the spatial distribution of a particular compound or compounds. Such an image allows one to visualize the differences in the distribution of particular compounds over the lipid containing sample e.g. a tissue section . If independent information on biological properties of the sample are available then the MS spatial distribution can provide chemical correlations with biological function or morphology. More over the combination of the information from mass spectrometry and histochemical imaging can be used to improve the quality of diagnosis.

In particular embodiments the DESI ion source is a source configured as described in Ifa et al. Int. J. Mass Spec rom. 259 8 2007 . A software program allows the conversion of the XCalibur 2.0 mass spectra files .raw into a format compatible with the Biomap software freeware htto www.maldo msi.org . Spatially accurate images are assembled using the Biomap software.

Methods of the invention involve using a liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology. Any liquid phase that does not destroy native tissue morphology and is compatible with mass spectrometry may be used with methods of the invention. Exemplary liquid phases include DMF ACN and THF. In certain embodiments the liquid phase is DMF. In certain embodiments the DMF is used in combination with another component such as EtOH HO ACN and a combination thereof. Other exemplary liquid phases that do not destroy native tissue morphology include ACN EtOH MeOH CHCl and ACN CHCl.

In certain embodiments methods of the invention involve performing a histochemical analysis on the tissue sample after it has been subjected to mass spectrometric analysis. Any histochemical analytical technique known in the art may be performed on the tissue and the performed technique will depend on the goal of the analysis. Exemplary histochemical analytical techniques include H E staining or immunohistochemistry.

The present invention provides new methodologies that allow mass spectrometry analysis of a lipid containing sample e.g. DESI MS imaging to be performed in a non destructive matter so that other analyses of the same sample can be performed after the mass spectrometry analysis is performed. A particular embodiment of the invention relates to mass spectral tissue imaging using DESI. DESI MS imaging has been increasingly applied in the biomedical field. Methods of the invention which use a variety of solvent systems for imaging allows DESI MS imaging of chemical compounds to be performed on lipid containing samples e.g. tissue sections while the morphology of the tissue remains unmodified. After DESI MS imaging the tissue can be used for H E staining immunohistochemistry and any other tissue analysis technique to obtain more information on the distribution of its chemical constituents.

A frozen mouse brain from a male mouse was purchased from Rockland Immunochemicals Inc. Gilbertsville Pa. USA and stored at 80 C. until it was sliced into coronary sections of varying thickness 2 m 3 m 5 m and 15 m using a Shandon SME Cryotome cryostat GMI Inc. Ramsey Minn. USA and thaw mounted onto glass slides. The glass slides were stored in a closed container at 80 C. until analysis when they were allowed to come to room temperature and dried in a dessicator for approximately 15 minutes. All human tissue samples were handled in accordance with approved institutional review board IRB protocols at Indiana University School of Medicine. Six human bladder cancer and paired normal samples four human prostate cancer and paired normal samples and one human kidney cancer and paired normal sample were obtained from the Indiana University Medical School Tissue Bank. All tissue samples were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen at the time of collection and subsequently stored at 80 C. until sliced into 5 or 10 m thick sections. The 5 and 15 m thick sections were used for DESI MS imaging experiments followed by either p63 immunohistochemistry or H E stain respectively. Tissue sections not analyzed by DESI MS were used in control experiments. The thin tissue sections were thaw mounted to glass slides each slide containing one section of tumor tissue and one section of adjacent normal tissue from the same patient. The glass slides were stored in closed containers at 80 C. Prior to analysis they were allowed to come to room temperature and then dried in a dessicator for approximately 15 minutes.

The DESI ion source was a lab built prototype similar to a commercial source from Prosolia Inc. Indianapolis Ind. USA configured as described elsewhere Watrous J D Alexandrov T Dorrestein PC 2011 Journal of Mass Spectrometry 46 2 209 222 . It consists of an inner capillary fused silica 50 m i.d. 150 m o.d. Polymicro Technologies AZ USA for delivering the spray solvent and an outer capillary 250 m i.d. 350 m o.d. for delivering nitrogen nebulizing gas. The DESI spray was positioned 2.5 mm from the tissue sample at an incident angle of 54 . A low collection angle of 10 was chosen to ensure the most efficient collection of the material being desorbed. The distance between the spray and the inlet was 6.0 mm. Multiple spray solvent systems were tested in the experiments including ACN HO MeOH ethanol EtOH tetrahydrofuran THF N N dimethylformamide DMF chloroform CHCl acetone and many of their binary mixtures in a ratio of 1 1 . The only tertiary mixture investigated was of ACN HO DMF at different v v proportions such as 8 3 1 and 1 1 1 . DESI MS experiments were carried out in the negative ion mode using a 5 kV spray voltage and a flow rate of 0.5 1.5 L min depending on the solvent system of choice. The nebulizing gas N2 pressure was set for all experiments at 175 180 psi. The mass spectrometer used was a LTQ linear ion trap mass spectrometer controlled by XCalibur 2.0 software Thermo Fisher Scientific San Jose Calif. USA .

Analysis were performed using an imaging approach. The tissues were scanned using a 2D moving stage in horizontal rows separated by a 150 m vertical step for the mouse brain imaging assay and 250 m vertical step for the human tissue imaging assays. For the DESI MS assay shown in the same mouse brain section was imaged 10 times with DMF EtOH 1 1 and each analysis was performed in 10 lines of 250 m. After one analysis was concluded the moving stage was set to coordinate 0 0 x y for the new analysis to be performed. The surface moving stage included an XYZ integrated linear stage Newport Richmond Calif. USA and a rotary stage Parker Automation Irwin Pa. USA . A software program allowed the conversion of the XCalibur 2.0 mass spectra files .raw into a format compatible with the Biomap software freeware http www.maldi msi.org . Spatially accurate images were assembled using the BioMap software. The color scale is normalized to the most intense 100 relative intensity peak in the mass spectra.

Tissue sections were subjected to H E staining after DESI MS imaging analysis or after being dried in a dessicator control sections . All chemicals used for the H E staining were purchased from Sigma Alrich St. Louis Mo. USA . The H E staining was performed at room temperature dip in MeOH for 2 minutes rinse in water 10 dips stain in Harris modified hematoxylin solution for 1.5 minutes rinse in water 10 dips 1 quick dip in 0.1 ammonia blueing agent rinse in water 10 dips counterstain in Eosin Y 8 seconds rinse in 100 EtOH 10 dips rinse again in 100 EtOH 10 dips rinse in Xylene 6 dips and rinse again in Xylene 6 dips . Sections were allowed to dry and covered with a glass cover slide. Immunohistochemistry assays were performed in the Veterinary Department at Purdue University by Dr. Carol Bain in accordance to their standard protocol. The primary antibody p63 4A4 sc 8431 was purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology INC Santa Cruz Calif. USA .

Pathological evaluation of the human tissue sections that were either H E stained or subjected to p63 immunohistochemistry was performed by Dr. Liang Cheng at IU School of Medicine in a blind fashion. Optical images of tissue sections were obtained using a SM LUX Binocular Brightfield Microscope Leitz Wetzlar Germany under 16 25 and 40 magnification.

The solvent system used in DESI tissue imaging is taught to be an important technical parameter for optimization Badu Tawiah A Bland C Campbell D I Cooks R G 2010 Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry 21 4 572 579 and Green F M Salter TL Gilmore I S Stokes P O Connor G 2010 Analyst 135 4 731 737 . Many studies have shown that the chemical and physical properties of the solvent system used affect the molecular information obtained during DESI MS tissue imaging Ellis SR et al. 2010 J. Am. Soc. Mass Spectrom. 21 12 2095 2104 . Optimization of the spray composition allows targeted classes of compounds to be enhanced depending on the overall goal. Besides the chemical information the effect of the solvent system on the morphology of the tissue being analyzed is a factor in DESI MS imaging. Commonly used DESI MS imaging solvent systems such as mixtures of water with methanol or acetonitrile Wiseman J M Ifa D R Venter A Cooks R G 2008 Nature Protocols 3 3 517 524 with or without an acidic modifier yield extensive chemical information but are known to cause depletion and destruction of the tissue sections precluding any consecutive analysis to be performed. To overcome these problems different solvents such as ACN HO MeOH ethanol EtOH tetrahydrofuran THF N N dimethylformamide DMF chloroform CHCl acetone and mixtures of these were investigated in the analysis of 15 m thick serial coronary mouse brain tissue sections.

A binary mixture of MEOH HO 1 1 v v or ACN HO 1 1 v v has been commonly used in DESI imaging of brain tissue yielding high signal intensity for polar lipids and free fatty acids Eberlin L S Ifa D R Wu C Cooks R G 2010 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 49 5 873 876 and Wiseman J M Ifa D R Song Q Y Cooks R G 2006 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 45 43 7188 7192 . The majority of the ions observed in the mass spectra obtained from the solvent systems tested here correspond to commonly observed lipid species in brain tissue when using standard MeOH HO 1 1 such as deprotonated free fatty acids phosphatidylserines PS phosphatidylinositols PI and sulfatides ST Eberlin L S Ifa D R Wu C Cooks R G 2010 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 49 5 873 876 . Variations in the relative abundance of the lipid species and in the total ion signal obtained were observed depending on the solvent composition. For instance spectra obtained when using pure methanol as the solvent system showed higher relative abundance of fatty acid dimers in the m z 500 700 region of the mass spectrum. In particular it was observed that pure DMF yielded spectra with high total abundance and with chemical information which is very similar to that which is obtained using MeOH HO.

Interestingly the DMF spray was observed to not cause tissue destruction. The effect of DMF in the tissue was further explored by combining this solvent with other solvents in binary 1 1 v v and tertiary mixtures. The combination of DMF with either ACN EtOH THF or CHClyielded very high ion signal and chemical information similar to what is seen using MeOH HO. Combinations of DMF with either HO or MeOH greatly enhanced the signal of low molecular weight compounds such as small metabolites FAs and FA dimers Eberlin L S Ferreira C R Dill A L Ifa D R Cooks R G 2011 Desorption Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometry for Lipid Characterization and Biological Tissue Imaging. Biochimica Et Biophysica Acta Molecular And Cell Biology Of Lipids accepted . In terms of spray stability and total ion abundance the combinations of DMF with either EtOH or ACN are great solvent systems for tissue imaging experiments. The change in chemical information obtained by DESI MS using different solvent combinations can be compared to the use of different matrices in MALDI imaging but in DESI MS imaging experiments the matrix is delivered in real time spot by spot without the need for sample preparation or without causing spatial delocalization of molecules.

Importantly none of these solvent combinations were observed to cause visual damage to the 15 m thick tissue sections that were analyzed. shows the physical and chemical effect of two of the new solvent systems developed DMF EtOH 1 1 and DMF HO 1 1 in comparison to the standard MEOH HO solvent system. DESI MS conditions were kept identical in all analyses performed. It is striking to observe that while extensive chemical information was obtained from the tissue sections when using DMF HO and DMF EtOH tissue integrity was preserved.

As observed in the optical images shown of the DESI MS experiment damage to the tissue was insignificant when using DMF solvent systems. To confirm preservation of tissue integrity H E staining was performed on the tissue sections previously analyzed by DESI MS. H E staining is a commonly used histochemical protocol to evaluate cellular structure and tissue morphology by light microscopy. Careful microscopic examination of the H E tissue sections revealed no damage or change in the cellular morphology of the sample after DESI analysis using DMF EtOH and DMF HO solvent systems while the tissue analyzed using MeOH HO was found to be altered and damaged as was macroscopically observed. DESI MS analysis of sequential mouse brain tissue sections of 2 3 and 5 m thicknesses was also performed and sequential H E staining of the tissue sections also revealed that no morphological damage occurred following DESI MS analysis using DMF EtOH or DMF ACN as the solvent system.

The physical and chemical effect of the DMF EtOH solvent system was further investigated by performing several DESI MS analyses of the same mouse brain tissue section. The same tissue region of a 5 m and a 15 m thick tissue section were analyzed 10 times using the DESI MS moving stage system. Mass spectra were recorded for 10 rows 250 m step size of each mouse brain section and after 10 analyses had been performed each tissue section was H E stained and observed under brightfield microscopy under 16 40 magnification. and B show the mass spectra obtained from the gray matter region of the 5 m thick mouse brain tissue section from the 5row scanned using DMF EtOH in the 1and 10DESI MS analysis respectively. The ion count is approximately 60 times greater in the 1analysis of the mouse brain compared to the ion count obtained in the 10analysis of the same region. The ion count of the main ion observed in the gray matter region of the 5row scanned m z 834.4 PS 18 0 22 6 was plotted as a function of the DESI MS analysis number for both the 5 m and a 15 m thick tissue sections shown in .

Interestingly the signal of the typical ion of m z 834.4 obtained in the 3or even 4DESI MS analysis is still observed at high intensities. Furthermore the decay profile of the ion count is consistent with the extraction mechanism proposed for DESI MS Costa A B Cooks R G 2008 Chem. Phys. Lett. 464 1 3 1 8 . While a MeOH HO spray extracts the chemical compounds from the tissue cells resulting in tissue damage the DMF based solvent system is able to extract the chemical compounds from the tissue section without disturbing the tissue morphology. H E staining of both a 5 m and a 15 m thick tissue section after ten DESI MS imaging analyses revealed no damage to the tissue indicating that the repetitive removal of the phospholipids by the DESI solvent spray does not affect the morphology of the cells. In fact the extraction process that occurs in DESI MS is comparable to the fixative procedures commonly used in histology for lipid removal DiDonato D Brasaemle DL 2003 Journal of Histochemistry Cytochemistry 51 6 773 780 such as the alcohol wash used in the initial step of the H E staining data. This alcohol wash step extracts the majority of cellular phospholipids while the cellular cytoskeletal elements are kept intact. Since hematoxylin stains nucleoproteins and eosin stains intracellular and extracellular proteins the removal of the lipid content with conservation of the tissue integrity by DESI MS should not interfere with this standard histochemistry protocol. Importantly the use of DMF based solvent systems or even other solvent systems with similar morphologically friendly properties allows pathological evaluation to be performed on the same tissue section previously analyzed by DESI MS but with acquisition of complementary results.

All combinations of DMF with other solvents used in the DESI MS assays on mouse brain tissue sections were found to not destroy the native morphology of the tissue. Other pure solvents such as ACN DMF THF ethanol and others did not cause damage to the tissue integrity as observed in the H E stains. A few other combinations that did not contain DMF such as ACN EtOH 1 1 MeOH CHCl 1 1 and ACN CHCl 1 1 did not destroy the native morphology of the tissue. The morphological effect that the DESI spray has on tissue appear to be related to the physical and chemical properties of the solvent systems itself.

While solubility of the proteic cellular and extracellular components of the tissue section in the DESI spray solvent system plays a role in the conservation of the tissue morphology integrity the physical properties of the solvent system such as surface tension and its effects on the dynamics of the DESI spray primary droplets also impact the damage caused to the tissue. When solubilization of cellular and extracellular components that keep cellular morphological integrity intact occurs the tissue becomes more susceptible to the mechanical action of the DESI spray droplets. Therefore tissue damage should be related to both solubilization of tissue components and mechanical action of the DESI spray system. The fact that the morphologically friendly solvent systems described here do not disturb tissue integrity appear to be related to the physical properties of the DESI spray primary droplets but also on the solubility of tissue components on the solvent system.

Chemical information and image quality are important factors in DESI MS imaging applications. The geometric parameters of the DESI spray as well as the choice of solvent system gas pressure and solvent flow are important when optimizing imaging conditions. When the solvent system is modified it is important to observe that the spray spot is stable and that the ion signal intensity is maximized for obtaining good quality 2D chemical images.

In the images shown in two distinctive MS peak patterns associated with the lipid compositions representative of the gray and white matter of the brain were observed in the negative ion mode for the brain section analyzed Eberlin L S Ifa D R Wu C Cooks R G 2010 Angewandte Chemie International Edition 49 5 873 876 . The ion images of m z 834.3 PS 18 0 22 6 m z 885.6 PI 18 0 20 4 and m z 303.3 FA 20 4 show a homogeneous distribution in the brain gray matter which are complementary and distinct from the ion images of m z 888.8 ST 24 1 and m z 890.7 ST 24 0 which are homogeneously distributed in the mouse brain white matter. shows the optical image of the same tissue section which was H E stained after DESI MS imaging was performed. This order of analysis in which ambient MS imaging is performed followed by histochemical analysis of the same tissue section is comparable to the post acquisition staining methodology used in MALDI MS imaging Schwamborn K et al. 2007 International Journal of Molecular Medicine 20 2 155 159 . The high quality 2D DESI MS ion images can be directly compared and even overlaid with the H E stained tissue section allowing a better correlation between the spatial distribution of the lipid species detected and the substructures of the mouse brain.

The capability to perform DESI MS imaging and histochemical analysis of the same tissue section is important in the investigation of diseased tissue. The comparison of histological features from stained sections with corresponding molecular images obtained by ambient imaging MS is important for accurate correlations between molecular signatures and tissue disease state. This is especially true in the analysis of cancerous tissue sections which are very often highly heterogeneous with regions of containing various tumor cell concentrations Agar N Y R et al. 2011 Neurosurgery 68 2 280 290 infiltrative normal tissue Dill A L et al. 2011 Chemistry a European Journal 17 10 2897 2902 precancerous lesions Eberlin LS et al. 2010 Analytical Chemistry 82 9 3430 3434 etc. Integration of DESI MS imaging into a traditional histopathology workflow required that the mass spectrometric analysis not interfere with the morphology of the tissue section. Provided this is the case the combination of the two different types of data as represented by the case of superimposed images greatly increases discrimination between different tissue types including that between diseased and healthy tissue.

To investigate this capability human bladder kidney and prostate cancer tissues along with adjacent normal samples were analyzed by DESI MS imaging in the negative ion mode using one of our histology compatible solvent system and sequentially H E stained. The lipid species present in the tissue sections were identified based on collision induced dissociation CID tandem MS experiments and comparison of the generated product ion spectra with literature data Hsu F F Turk J 2000 Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry 11 11 986 999 . shows a series of negative ion mode DESI MS ion images of species commonly observed in human bladder transitional cell carcinoma and adjacent normal tissue from sample UH0210 13. B C D and E show the ion images obtained for the ions at m z 788.4 PS 18 0 18 1 m z 885.6 PI 18 0 20 4 m z 835.6 PI 16 0 18 1 m z 281.6 FA 18 1 and m z 537.2 FA dimer .

As previously reported for DESI MS imaging of human bladder cancer in combination with statistical analysis using a standard ACN HO 1 1 solvent system the ions that most significantly contribute to the discrimination between cancerous and normal bladder tissue are the free fatty acid and the fatty acid dimers which consistently appear at increased intensities in the ion images of cancerous tissue when compared to normal tissue using the morphology friendly solvent system DMF EtOH 1 1 and D Dill A L et al. 2011 Chemistry a European Journal 17 10 2897 2902 and Dill A L et al. 2009 Analytical Chemistry 81 21 8758 8764 . Representative mass spectra obtained for the cancerous and normal tissue sections are shown in and H. Many other individual ions observed in the mass spectra were found at different intensities in the normal and cancerous tissues as observed in extracted DESI MS ion images.

The optical image of the same tissue sections stained with H E after DESI MS imaging analysis is shown in and were used to obtain a histopathological diagnosis. Detailed pathological examination of the H E stained sections confirmed that there was no morphological damage to the tissue sections as a result of DESI MS imaging analysis allowing a straightforward diagnosis of the sections as cancerous and normal. No difference in cell morphology or tissue integrity was observed at the microscopic scale when the H E stained tissue section of the DESI MS imaged tissue was compared to a control tissue section.

The non destructive nature of the DMF based solvent system enables ion images to be overlaid with the H E stain of the same tissue section for unambiguous diagnosis and correlation. For example a small region of tissue within the cancerous section detected by DESI MS as negative for bladder cancer based on the distribution of the FA dimer m z 537.2 was confirmed as normal tissue by pathological evaluation of the overlaid DESI MS ion image and H E stain of the same tissue section. This unambiguous correlation is made possible through the use of the morphologically friendly solvent systems so that the histological data can be considered in combination with the DESI MS imaging data. H E stained serial sections of the same sample imaged using standard ACN HO 1 1 revealed that the tissue integrity was completely destroyed and were inadequate for pathological evaluation. The same histological observation that DESI imaging is histology compatible was obtained in the analysis of the H E stained sections of five other human bladder cancer and paired normal samples four human prostate cancer and paired normal samples and one kidney cancer and paired normal sample initially imaged by DESI MS with a morphologically friendly solvent system. Previously reported molecular information that allowed a diagnosis to be obtained for these types of cancer was consistent using the new solvent system. The capability of DESI MS imaging to be histology compatible was further investigated by performing immunohistochemical IHC analysis with p63 antibody on bladder and prostate cancer tissue sections which was performed after DESI MS imaging. The gene p63 is one of the most commonly used basal cell specific markers in the diagnosis of prostate cancer whose expression is known to be down regulated in adenocarcinoma of the prostate when compared to normal prostate tissue Signoretti S et al. 2000 American Journal of Pathology 157 6 1769 1775 . Negative IHC staining of tumor protein p63 is commonly used as a clinical tool for identifying prostate cancerous tissue. The role of p63 in bladder carcinogenesis is not as clear as in prostate cancer Comperat E et al. 2006 Virchows Archiv 448 3 319 324 and positive staining of p63 is typically associated with both benign and malignant bladder epithelial cells.

Two bladder cancer samples and two prostate cancer samples were subjected to p63 IHC after DESI MS imaging on the same tissue section. Detailed pathological evaluation of the tissue sections that were subjected to IHC after DESI MS imaging confirmed that the DESI MS analysis of the tissue lipid content did not interfere with the p63 IHC protocol as the tissue remained intact after the imaging experiment. p63 IHC of the bladder sample was found to be positive for both cancerous and normal tissue sections. For the prostate cancer sample UH0002 20 it was subjected to p63 IHC after DESI MS imaging and again no damage to the morphology of the tissue was observed allowing a diagnosis of cancerous and adjacent normal tissue to be achieved which correlated with the cholesterol sulfate signal previously reported as a possible prostate cancer biomarker using DESI MS imaging Eberlin LS et al. 2010 Analytical Chemistry 82 9 3430 3434. . Also these findings confirmed that protein position in the tissue samples remained unchanged which is probably due to the insolubility of these proteins in the solvent combinations used.

The results reported here introduce a novel capability of histologically compatible ambient molecular imaging by DESI MS. The feasibility of DESI MS imaging to be performed while tissue integrity and cell morphology is conserved allows ambient mass spectrometric analysis of tissue to be combined with traditional histopathology with the goal of providing better disease diagnostics. As DESI MS imaging using histologically friendly solvent systems does not interfere with pathological analysis the technique could be included as the initial step in the clinical tissue analysis workflow.

Methods reported herein will allow DESI MS to be more broadly applied in the biomedical field such as in intraoperative applications. In additional to biomedical applications the morphologically compatible solvent system allows DESI MS imaging to be combined to other analytical techniques for chemical analysis of the same tissue section.

References and citations to other documents such as patents patent applications patent publications journals books papers web contents have been made throughout this disclosure. All such documents are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the invention described herein.

