---

title: Authoring a virtualized data center
abstract: Described are methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products for authoring a virtual representation of a data center. An identity of a first IT component is determined. First position data indicating a position of the first IT component in the data center is received. The associated identity of the first IT component and the first position data is stored as a first part of the virtual representation of the data center. An identity of the second IT component is determined. Relative position data indicating a position of the second IT component relative to the first position data is received. Second position data indicating a position of the second IT component in the data center is determined. The associated identity of the second IT component and the second position data is stored as a second part of the virtual representation of the data center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09176648&OS=09176648&RS=09176648
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09176648
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
The present technology relates generally to data center management and more specifically to authoring and using a virtual representation of a data center.

In some implementations a data center can provide computer processing and or storage resources. A data center can support performing one or more prescribed processing tasks. In some common applications for example a data center can be used to implement any kind of network accessible service such as an Email service search service etc. . In some common applications a data center can be used to implement storage backup and or archival functionality.

A data center can include various physical resources to support and provide e.g. computer processing and or storage. A data center can include IT components such as racks servers data storage devices disk drives networking equipment and uninterruptible power supplies UPSs . Data centers can include supporting resources such as HVAC units chillers cooling equipment generators and battery backup systems. In some cases the physical resources of a data center can be housed in an enclosure such as a room or building. For a large scale service a data center can require a large number of physical resources occupying one or more buildings.

There have been recent developments in mobile computing devices such as laptops smart phones and tablets. In particular mobile computing devices can provide a variety of functions such as a digital camera capable of functioning as an optical code scanner. Mobile computing devices can provide accelerometers GPS receivers and other sensors.

Optical code scanners can be used in applications that rely on optical codes such as bar codes Quick Response QR codes or other matrix codes to store information. Industries such as retail airline self service automotive parcel delivery pharmaceutical and healthcare use optical codes to provide inventory control customer identification item tracking and many other functions. Optical code scanners scan or read an optical code that is typically attached to or printed on an object. A typical optical code is comprised of a number of bars or modules. Information is encoded in an optical code by the arrangement of bars or modules. When an optical code is placed within the field of view of a scanner the scanner can read the bars or modules comprising the optical code and then use this data to decode the information encoded in the optical code. This operation is called decoding an optical code. The information produced by decoding an optical code can take the form of an alphanumeric string numeric string or binary string.

As the number of the IT components in data centers increase the management of the data centers becomes increasingly complex. Accordingly there is a need to simplify the management of data centers. As described herein virtual representations of data centers can be authored and used to facilitate management.

In one aspect there is a method executed on a mobile computing device for authoring a virtual representation of a data center. The method can include scanning by the mobile computing device a first identification marker associated with a first IT component. The method can include determining by the mobile computing device an identity of the first IT component based on the first identification marker. The method can include receiving by the mobile computing device first position data indicating a position of the first IT component in the data center. The method can include associating by the mobile computing device the identity of the first IT component with the first position data. The method can include storing by the mobile computing device the associated identity of the first IT component and the first position data as a first part of the virtual representation of the data center. The method can include scanning by the mobile computing device a second identification marker associated with a second IT component. The method can include determining by the mobile computing device an identity of the second IT component based on the second identification marker. The method can include receiving by the mobile computing device relative position data indicating a position of the second IT component relative to the first position data. The method can include determining by the mobile computing device second position data indicating a position of the second IT component in the data center based on the first position data and the relative position data. The method can include associating by the mobile computing device the identity of the second IT component with the second position data. The method can include storing by the mobile computing device the associated identity of the second IT component and the second position data as a second part of the virtual representation of the data center.

In some embodiments the method can include displaying by the mobile computing device a plurality of directional buttons wherein receiving by the mobile computing device relative position data indicating the position of the second IT component relative to the first position data includes detecting by the mobile computing device selection of a directional button of the plurality of directional buttons.

In another aspect there is a computer program product tangibly embodied in a non transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions being operable to cause a mobile computing device to scan a first identification marker associated with a first IT component determine an identity of the first IT component based on the first identification marker receive first position data indicating a position of the first IT component in the data center associate the identity of the first IT component with the first position data store the associated identity of the first IT component and the first position data as a first part of the virtual representation of the data center scan a second identification marker associated with a second IT component determine an identity of the second IT component based on the second identification marker receive relative position data indicating a position of the second IT component relative to the first position data determine second position data indicating a position of the second IT component in the data center based on the first position data and the relative position data associate the identity of the second IT component with the second position data and store the associated identity of the second IT component and the second position data as a second part of the virtual representation of the data center.

In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions being operable to cause a mobile computing device to display a plurality of directional buttons wherein the instructions being operable to cause the mobile computing device to receive relative position data indicating the position of the second IT component relative to the first position data comprise instructions being operable to cause the mobile computing device to detect selection of a directional button of the plurality of directional buttons.

In another aspect there is a mobile computing device including a scanner and a data center management module configured to scan with the scanner a first identification marker associated with a first IT component determine an identity of the first IT component based on the first identification marker receive first position data indicating a position of the first IT component in the data center associate the identity of the first IT component with the first position data store the associated identity of the first IT component and the first position data as a first part of the virtual representation of the data center scan with the scanner a second identification marker associated with a second IT component determine an identity of the second IT component based on the second identification marker receive relative position data indicating a position of the second IT component relative to the first position data determine second position data indicating a position of the second IT component in the data center based on the first position data and the relative position data associate the identity of the second IT component with the second position data and store the associated identity of the second IT component and the second position data as a second part of the virtual representation of the data center.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device includes a display wherein the data center management module is configured to display on the display a plurality of directional buttons and receive relative position data indicating the position of the second IT component relative to the first position data by detecting selection of a directional button of the plurality of directional buttons.

In some embodiments the relative position data indicating the position of the second IT component relative to the first position data indicates at least one of the second IT component is right of the first position data the second IT component is left of the first position data the second IT component is in front of the first position data the second IT component is behind the first position data the second IT component is below the first position data the second IT component is above the first position data.

In some embodiments the first IT component and the second IT component are racks. In some embodiments the relative position data indicating the position of the second IT component relative to the first position data indicates the position of the second IT component within the first IT component. In some embodiments the first IT component is a rack and the second IT component is one of a server storage controller or disk enclosure in the rack. In some embodiments the first IT component is a disk enclosure and the second IT component is a hard drive. In some embodiments the first identification marker and the second identification marker are QR codes.

Described herein is technology for managing data centers. The technology can be used to author a virtual representation of a data center. The virtual representation of the data center or virtual data center can be a computer based model of the real world data center. The virtual representation of the data center can include data that describes aspects of the data center. The virtual representation of the data center can include a representation of the building or room housing the data center. For example the position of walls floors ceilings doors and other structural aspects in the data center can be included in the virtual representation of the data center. The virtual representation of the data center can include representations of IT components that are in the data center. For example the position of racks servers data storage devices disk drives networking equipment UPSs HVAC units chillers cooling equipment generators and battery backup systems can be included in the virtual representation of the data center. Beneficially a virtual representation of a data center can facilitate the management of the data center. For example the IT components within the data center and the location of those IT components within the data center can be determined from the virtual representation of the data center. As another example the cabling or re cabling of IT components within the data center can be planned using the virtual representation of the data center.

The technology can involve a mobile computing device authoring and or using a virtual representation of a data center. In some embodiments a virtual data center can be authored by a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device can receive the positions of structural aspects of the data center and create the virtual representation of the data center. The mobile computing device can identify an IT component in the data center e.g. by scanning an optical code on the IT component and or referencing a database containing information about the IT component . The mobile computing device can receive position data indicating the position of the IT component in the data center e.g. by input from a user or by determining the position programmatically . The mobile computing device can update the virtual representation of the data center to include the position data for the IT component. In some embodiments a similar sequence can be performed for other IT components in the data center. The mobile computing device can use the virtual representation of the data center to determine information about the IT components in the data center.

In some embodiments a virtual representation of a data center can be created to facilitate planning a data center. The virtual representation of the data center can include a representation of the building or room housing the data center. The virtual representation of the data center can include representations of IT components that will be added to the data center. The layout of the IT components can be planned using the virtual representation of the data center. The actual IT components can be placed in the data center in accordance with the virtual representation.

As described in greater detail below the technology can involve creating a virtual representation of a data center such as data center . For example the technology can be used to create a virtual representation of data center that includes the positions of racks servers cooling equipment and walls .

In some embodiments identification markers can be applied directly to IT components. For example identification markers can be applied to racks during the manufacturing process. In some embodiments identification markers can comprise ink paint or powder coat applied to racks . In some embodiments identification markers can be printed on paper or a label and affixed to the face of an IT component. In some embodiments identification markers can be applied to servers .

Identification markers are merely exemplary. In some embodiments identification markers can be QR codes or bar codes. In some embodiments identification markers can include any kind of optical code such as Codabar Code 11 EAN 13 EAN 8 MSI Plessey PostNet UPC A UPC E LOGMARS PDF417 DataMatrix or Maxicode optical codes.

Identification markers can represent data. In some QR codes the arrangement of black modules and white modules can represent an alphanumeric string. In some embodiments an identification marker can represent information about the IT component to which it is attached. In some embodiments an identification marker can represent an IT component s serial number or other number assigned by its manufacturer. In some embodiments an identification marker can represent an IT component identifier assigned by the system owner. In some embodiments an identification marker can represent additional information about an IT component such as IT components it contains its IP address etc.

Identification analysis logic can for example determine an identification result e.g. the identity of an IT component based on code result . In some embodiments for example code result can be the decoded value of an optical code. Identification analysis logic can based on the decoded value of the optical code request an IT component identity from equipment identification information and or management status information source . For example if code result includes a serial number of an IT component and equipment identification information includes a database mapping serial numbers of IT components to IT component identities e.g. IP address system name model manufacturer and or other specification data identification analysis logic can retrieve IT component identities from equipment identification information . In the illustrated embodiment equipment identification information can be stored on mobile computing device . As another example if code result includes a serial number of an IT component and management status information source includes a database mapping serial numbers of IT components to IT component identities identification analysis logic can retrieve IT component identities from management status information source . In some embodiments IT component status information can be retrieved from management status information source . In the illustrated embodiment management status information source can be a separate computing device from mobile computing device e.g. a server . Mobile computing device can communicate with management status information source via link e.g. via a WIFI connection over antenna .

Association logic can associate identification result and position information e.g. associate position information and identification result thereby indicating that they relate to an IT component . Association logic can store the associated position information and identification result to a virtual data center. In some embodiments the virtual data center can be stored in equipment identification information of mobile computing device . In some embodiments the virtual data center can be stored on an external server.

Link can enable communications between identification analysis logic and external sources such as management status information source . Link can be one or more TCP IP lines which may use a known protocol such as NFS HTTP and Windows Networking Link can be a WIFI or WAN or other wireless connection or a dedicated physical connection such as a USB or serial connection.

Management status information source can be can include or can be included in a management system for IT components. Management status information source can support one or more interfaces such as an application programming interface API command line interface CLI graphical user interface GUI or web services.

Identification analysis logic can obtain management and or status information about IT components from Management status information source . For example Identification analysis logic can obtain status information e.g. utilization runtime etc. about IT components from Management status information source .

As described above a virtual data center can be a computer based model. For example a virtual data center can be a computer based model including one or more objects or data structures. In some embodiments physical items in the data center can be represented by objects e.g. each rack server HVAC wall etc. is represented by an object . In some embodiments items in the data center can be represented by container objects e.g. instances of a container class . For example each rack server disk enclosure disk drive identification marker HVAC wall etc. in the data center can be represented by a container object in the virtual representation of the data center. In some embodiments each rack server HVAC wall etc. in the data center is represented by an instance of a class derived from the container class e.g. rack class server class HVAC class wall class etc. .

In some embodiments the virtual data center can be a hierarchy of container objects. For example a container object can be the child of another container object its parent e.g. to denote the child is contained by the parent . A container object can be a parent of one or more other container objects its children . A container object can have no parent or children. For example with reference to data center rack servers disk enclosure and identification markers and can each be represented by a separate container object. The container object representing data center can be the parent of the container object representing rack to denote rack is contained in data center . The container object representing rack can be the parent of the container objects representing servers and disk enclosure to denote that servers and disk enclosure are installed in rack . The container object representing rack can be the parent of the container object representing identification marker

A container object can have member variables representing information about the item in the data center that the container object represents. The container object can have member variables that store the manufacturer model serial number system identification etc. for the item that the container object represents. The container object can have member variables that store position data for the item that the container object represents. In some embodiments position data can include coordinates e.g. x y z in 3D space of the item that the container object represents. The coordinates can be relative to a coordinate system based on the data center e.g. where in the data center the item is located . The coordinates can be relative to a coordinate system based on a parent object e.g. where in a rack a server is located or where on the face of a server an identification marker is located . In some embodiments position data can include the dimensions or size for the item that the container object represents e.g. width height and depth . In some embodiments position data can include a three dimensional vector indicating the direction in which the item that the container object represents is facing.

Mobile computing device can author a virtual representation of a data center e.g. data center . depicts flow chart for a method of authoring a virtual representation of a data center. depict mobile computing device authoring a virtual representation of a data center. In the illustrated example representations of rack and rack are added to the virtual representation of data center .

With reference to mobile computing device can display a visualization of a virtual representation of data center . For example graphic in visualization represents rack in data center graphic in visualization represents rack in data center and graphic in visualization represents rack in data center . Visualization can reflect the spatial positions of IT components in data center . As shown in the virtual representation of data center does not include a representation of racks and and accordingly visualization does not include graphics representing racks and . As described below mobile computing device can add representations of racks and to the virtual representation of data center .

In some embodiments mobile computing device can scan a first identification marker associated with a first IT component step . For example mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image e.g. original image of rack including identification marker . In some embodiments mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image in response to receiving a signal from user input unit . Mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to locate in original image identification marker on rack

In some embodiments mobile computing device can determine an identity of the first IT component based on the first identification marker step . For example mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to generate code result by processing the image of identification marker on rack . In some embodiments code result can be an identity of rack e.g. the serial number of rack . In some embodiments code result can be used to determine the identity of rack . For example identification analysis logic can use code result to query equipment identification information and or management status information source for the identity of rack

In some embodiments mobile computing device can receive first position data indicating a position of the first IT component in the data center step . For example association logic can receive position information . Position information can be received from a user. As illustrated in mobile computing device can receive position information via user gesture e.g. a user tapping display to indicate the position of rack in data center . In some embodiments a user can supply the position of rack in data center by entering values e.g. coordinates of rack in data center into a text field on mobile computing device . As noted above position data can include the dimensions or size for the item that the container object represents e.g. width height and depth . In some embodiments position data can include a three dimensional vector indicating the direction in which item that the container object represents is facing.

In some embodiments some or all position data can be retrieved from equipment identification information and or management status information source . For example an IT components model number can be determined from its identity. Based on the model number the dimensions of the IT component can be retrieved from equipment identification information and or management status information source .

In some embodiments mobile computing device can associate the identity of the first IT component with the first position data step . For example association logic can associate the identity of rack as determined in step with the position data received in step . For example association logic can create an object representing rack populate the member variables that store e.g. serial number or system identification and populate the member variables that store position data.

In some embodiments mobile computing device can store the associated identity of the first IT component and the first position data as a first part of the virtual representation of the data center step . For example association logic can add an object representing rack as a part of the virtual representation of data center . In some embodiments the object representing rack can be a child of the object representing data center . With reference to a representation of rack is added to the virtual representation of data center and accordingly visualization includes graphic representing rack

In some embodiments mobile computing device can scan a second identification marker associated with a second IT component step . For example mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image e.g. original image of rack including identification marker . In some embodiments mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image in response to receiving a signal from user input unit . Mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to locate in original image identification marker on rack

In some embodiments mobile computing device can determine an identity of the second IT component based on the second identification marker step . For example mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to generate code result by processing the image of identification marker on rack . In some embodiments code result can be an identity of rack e.g. the serial number of rack . In some embodiments code result can be used to determine the identity of rack . For example identification analysis logic can use code result to query equipment identification information or management status information source for the identity of rack

In some embodiments mobile computing device can receive relative position data indicating a position of the second IT component relative to the first position data step . Relative position information can be received from a user. As illustrated in mobile computing device can prompt the use to enter relative position information by displaying arrows . As illustrated in the user can provide relative position information via user gesture e.g. a user tapping display to select arrow to indicate rack is to the right of rack in data center . In some embodiments selection of arrow indicates the current IT component is behind the previous IT component selection of arrow indicates the current IT component is in front of the previous IT component and selection of arrow indicates the current IT component is to the left of the previous IT component.

In some embodiments mobile computing device can determine second position data indicating a position of the second IT component in the data center based on the first position data and the relative position data step . For example association logic can determine the position data for rack in data center based on the relative position data received in step and the position data for rack . In some embodiments for example association logic can determine that rack is located to the right of rack and separated by a pre determined rack spacing distance.

In some embodiments mobile computing device can associate the identity of the second IT component with the second position data step . For example association logic can associate the identity of rack as determined in step with the position data received in step . For example association logic can create an object representing rack populate the member variables that store e.g. serial number or system identification and populate the member variables that store position data.

In some embodiments mobile computing device can store the associated identity of the second IT component and the second position data as a second part of the virtual representation of the data center step . For example association logic can add an object representing rack as a part of the virtual representation of data center . In some embodiments the object representing rack can be a child of the object representing data center . With reference to a representation of rack is added to the virtual representation of data center and accordingly visualization includes graphic representing rack

With reference to mobile computing device can display visualization which is a visualization of a portion of the virtual representation of data center . For example graphic in visualization represents rack in data center . Graphic in visualization represents server in rack . Graphic is shown as installed in graphic to reflect that server is installed in rack . As shown in the virtual representation of data center does not include a representation of server and accordingly visualization does not include graphics representing server . As described below mobile computing device can add a representation of server to the virtual representation of data center .

In some embodiments mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image e.g. original image of server including identification marker . In some embodiments mobile computing device can use camera to acquire an image in response to receiving a signal from user input unit . Mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to locate in original image identification marker on server

In some embodiments mobile computing device can use optical code analysis logic of data center management module to generate code result by processing the image of identification marker . In some embodiments code result can be an identity of server e.g. the serial number of server . In some embodiments code result can used to determine the identity of server . For example identification analysis logic can use code result to query identification information or management status information source for the identity of server

In some embodiments association logic can receive position information . Position information can be received from a user. As illustrated in mobile computing device can receive position information via user gesture e.g. a user tapping display to indicate the position of server in rack .

In some embodiments mobile computing device can determine position information for an IT component based on one or more identification markers. For example mobile computing device can determine the position of server in rack based on the position of identification marker which is affixed to rack identification marker which is affixed to server and the position of identification marker which is affixed to server . Since the virtual representation of the data center includes position information for identification marker and position information for identification marker mobile computing device can infer position data for identification marker based for example on an image that contains identification markers and

In some embodiments association logic can associate the identity of server with the position data received. For example association logic can create an object representing server populate the member variables that store e.g. serial number or system identification and populate the member variables that store position data.

In some embodiments association logic can add an object representing server as a part of the virtual representation of data center . In some embodiments the object representing server can be a child of the object representing rack . With reference to a representation of server is added to the virtual representation of data center and accordingly visualization includes graphic representing server

The above described techniques can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in a non transitory information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the technology by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface and or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The technology has been described in terms of particular embodiments. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the technology can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

