---

title: Digital wallet
abstract: A digital wallet that facilitates fast, convenient, and secure commerce using a mobile electronic device (or non-mobile electronic device) and stores information associated with transactions, such as purchase confirmations and receipts. The digital wallet can store information for use in transactions, including information associated with one or more financial accounts, user information, and shipping information. To complete an online purchase, the digital wallet can interact with a merchant's website to obtain information regarding the purchase. The digital wallet provides a user interface for the user to review and confirm the purchase information. The user interface also allows the user to select from multiple payment options, customize shipping information, or provide information requested by the merchant. The digital wallet can transmit user confirmation to the merchant's website and receive a receipt for the purchase. The digital wallet can store the receipt and synchronize the receipt with a remote storage location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355391&OS=09355391&RS=09355391
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09355391
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120306
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S patent application Ser. No. 13 277 182 filed Oct. 19 2011 and entitled Digital Wallet which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 424 611 filed Dec. 17 2010 and entitled Digital Wallet. The entire contents of the above identified priority applications are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to electronic commerce and more particularly to a digital wallet for facilitating transactions and storing information associated with transactions.

Electronic commerce such as online shopping has been increasingly common since the advent of the Internet. Online shopping websites generally provide a user interface for customers to select products to purchase. After the customer has selected products for purchase the customer typically can choose from multiple payment options to purchase the products. Two conventional payment options generally supported by online merchants are using a financial account for example a credit card account or checking account and using a third party payment processor such as PAYPAL or other processor.

To complete an online purchase using a credit card or other financial account a consumer typically provides a significant amount of information to the merchant via the merchant s website. This information generally includes an account identifier for example credit card number debit card number etc. shipping information and the name address and contact information of the consumer. The requirement of entering this information for each merchant from which the consumer makes purchases can be cumbersome and frustrating to the consumers. This requirement can be particularly frustrating and difficult for consumers making online purchases using a mobile device as many mobile devices do not include a user interface optimized to enter significant amounts of information. This deficiency for mobile devices results in substantially lower mobile browser conversion rates from product searching to product purchase compared to desktop browser conversion rates.

One conventional approach to alleviating the burden on the consumer involves a toolbar plug in application for web browsers. Conventional toolbar applications are used to automatically populate web forms such as a web form for receiving payment and consumer information for completing an online purchase with stored information. However these conventional toolbar applications often are inaccurate as they merely attempt to predict which form is presented on a web page and then preload default values for the predicted form.

The use of a third party payment processor to complete online purchases is another approach to alleviating the burden of entering a significant amount of information at each merchant s website. Generally a third party processor requires a consumer to register for an account and to provide one or more payment options. After registering the consumer can use the payment options to complete purchases at participating merchants websites. To complete an online purchase using the third party payment processor the consumer generally selects a link at the merchant s website and in response the consumer is redirected from the merchant s website to a website of the third party payment processor. At this website the consumer first has to provide login information and then can select one of the payment options to complete and confirm the purchase. After the purchase is confirmed the consumer is directed back to the merchant s website. The third party payment processor then settles with the financial institution associated with the selected payment option and with the merchant to complete the transaction.

The use of a third party processor has several deficiencies. First the process is disruptive to the consumer as the consumer is directed away from the merchant s website to the third party payment processor s website and then back to the merchant s website. Second the use of a third party payment processor limits the amount of information that the merchant receives. For example the merchant may not have access to information associated with the consumer or information regarding the payment method used. The use of a third party processor also presents an additional cost to the merchant.

Thus a need in the art exists for systems and methods that overcome one or more of the above described limitations.

An aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for completing an online transaction. A digital wallet module resident on a client device receives a request for payment information to complete the transaction. The request originates from a website of a merchant. In response to receiving the request the digital wallet module retrieves the payment information from a storage location on the client device and transmits the retrieved payment information to the merchant website.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product for completing an online transaction. The computer program product includes a computer readable storage device having computer readable program instructions stored therein. The computer readable program instructions includes computer program instructions for receiving a request for payment information to complete the transaction the request originating from a website of a merchant computer program instructions for retrieving in response to the request the payment information and computer program instructions for transmitting the retrieved payment information to the merchant website.

Another aspect of the present invention provides an apparatus for completing an electronic purchase from a merchant via a distributed network. The apparatus includes a web browser application a digital wallet module logically coupled to the web browser application. The digital wallet module is configured to receive a request for payment information to use in completing the purchase from the merchant website retrieve payment information from a computer readable storage device logically coupled to the digital wallet module and transmit the retrieved payment information to the merchant.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for completing a purchase from a merchant via a website of the merchant. A digital wallet module embedded in a web browser in communication with the merchant website receives a purchase request message including a request for payment information for use in compensating the merchant for the purchase. In response to receiving the purchase request message the digital wallet module presents a confirmation display requesting a user to authorize the purchase. In response to receiving authorization from the user the digital wallet module retrieves stored payment information and transmits a payment authorization message including the retrieved payment information to the merchant website.

The exemplary embodiments provide a digital wallet that can facilitate fast convenient and secure commerce using a mobile electronic device or non mobile electronic device and that stores information associated with transactions such as purchase confirmations and receipts. The digital wallet can provide a user interface for entering information for use in transactions such as information associated with one or more financial accounts for example credit card or debit card information contact information and shipping information. The digital wallet can store this information for subsequent use in online for example via the Internet and offline purchases for example via a merchant point of sale device including a contactless payment device . The user can use the digital wallet to complete purchases by selecting a payment option stored by the digital wallet without the need to re enter financial account information contact information or shipping information for each purchase. The user also may select a default payment option to use such that the user can confirm a purchase without making a payment option selection. The digital wallet can be particularly advantageous when utilized to complete a purchase using a mobile device such as a mobile phone or other electronic device having a limited user interface that may not be optimized to enter a significant amount of information.

The digital wallet can be embodied as a stand alone application program or as a companion program to a web browser for example as a companion program to a Hypertext Markup Language revision 5 HTML5 compliant web browser or other type of web browser having messaging and storage capabilities. In a web browser embodiment the digital wallet can leverage the messaging and storage capabilities of the web browser to provide a consistent buying experience across multiple merchant websites. That is the digital wallet can provide a consistent user interface independent of merchants differing websites. The digital wallet also can allow a user to complete a purchase without navigating from the merchant s website as required by third party payment processors. While certain embodiments are described in which parts of the digital wallet are implemented in software it will be appreciated that one or more acts or functions of the digital wallet may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems.

To complete an online transaction using the digital wallet a user can navigate to a merchant s website using a web browser and locate one or more products. After the user indicates a desire to purchase one or more products the digital wallet can interact with the merchant s website and with the user in a secure manner to complete the transaction. Once the transaction is completed the digital wallet can receive or generate a confirmation or receipt for the transaction and can store the confirmation or receipt. The digital wallet also can synchronize the confirmation or receipt with a remote storage location such as a cloud computing environment.

To complete an offline purchase at a merchant s store location the digital wallet can interact with a merchant s point of sale device and with the user. The user can activate the digital wallet for example by launching an application by pressing a physical or virtual button on the mobile device or by making a gesture with the mobile device. The digital wallet can then communicate payment information to the point of sale device and when the payment information is confirmed receive a receipt from the point of sale device. The mobile device can communicate with the point of sale device using a wireless technology such as near field communication technology NFC BLUETOOTH or other suitable wireless technology.

The digital wallet can also store coupons or loyalty reward for use in transactions and can automatically apply the stored coupons during a purchase transaction if appropriate. For example a coupon for a product may be displayed to a user in response to an Internet search. The user can download the coupon to the digital wallet and store the coupon on the mobile device. The digital wallet can search the coupons during purchases to determine if one or more of the stored coupons may be applied to the purchase. If so the digital wallet can automatically apply the stored coupon.

The digital wallet can communicate with a remote system to facilitate multiple functions. For example the digital wallet can receive security information that identifies trusted merchants and non trusted merchants from the remote system. The digital wallet can use this security information to prevent the user from providing financial account information or other information to non trusted merchants. For example the digital wallet may compare a merchant name merchant website Uniform Resource Locator URL or Internet Protocol IP address to a list of known non trusted merchants prior to passing information from the digital wallet to the merchant s website.

The remote system also can maintain an account for each individual user. This user account can include information associated with payment options for use in transactions and receipts or other information regarding completed transactions. The digital wallet can synchronize for example periodically with the remote system to maintain current information at both locations. The remote system also may provide a user interface via a web browser that enables the user to modify information such as financial account information of stored payment options and contact information for use in transactions and to access stored receipts. The user can access the stored receipts for example to determine when a certain purchase was made to determine how much the user paid for an item or for budgeting purposes. In certain implementations the remote system or a third party having access to the receipts stored at the remote system can use the receipts to target advertisements or other promotional materials to the user.

Users may in appropriate circumstances be allowed to limit or otherwise affect the operation of the features disclosed in this specification. For example users may be given an initial opportunity to opt in or opt out of the collection or use of certain data or the activation of certain features. In addition users may be provided opportunities to change the manner in which the features are employed including for situations in which users may have concerns regarding their privacy. Instructions also may be provided to users to notify the users regarding policies about the use of information including personally identifiable information and receipt information and manners in which the users may affect such use of information. Thus sensitive personal information can be used to benefit a user if desired through receipt of targeted advertisements or other information without risking disclosure of personal information or the user s identity.

One or more aspects of the invention may comprise a computer program that embodies the functions described and illustrated herein wherein the computer program is implemented in a computer system that comprises instructions stored in a machine readable medium and a processor that executes the instructions. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing the invention in computer programming and the invention should not be construed as limited to any one set of computer program instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such a computer program to implement an embodiment of the disclosed invention based on the appended flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use the invention. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more aspects of the invention described herein may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems. Moreover any reference to an act being performed by a computer should not be construed as being performed by a single computer as the act may be performed by more than one computer. The inventive functionality of the invention will be explained in more detail in the following description read in conjunction with the figures illustrating the program flow.

Turning now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like but not necessarily identical elements throughout the figures exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in detail. is a block diagram depicting an operating environment for a digital wallet in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments.

Referring to the exemplary operating environment includes a merchant system a cloud computing environment and a user device associated with a user . The user device may be a personal computer mobile device for example notebook computer tablet computer netbook computer personal digital assistant PDA video game device GPS locator device cellular telephone smartphone or other mobile device or other appropriate technology that includes or is coupled to a web browser application module such as GOOGLE S CHROME MICROSOFT S INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA S FIREFOX .

In certain exemplary embodiments the web browser application is an HTML5 compliant web browser. HTML5 compliant web browsers include a cross document messaging application programming interface API and a local storage API that previous HTML versions did not have. The cross document messaging API of HTML5 compliant web browsers enables documents such as web pages to communicate with each other. For example a first document can send a message to a second document requesting information. In response the second document can send a message including the requested information to the first document. The local storage API of HTML5 compliant web browsers enables the web browser to store information on a client device upon which the web browser is installed or is executing such as the user device . Websites also can employ the local storage API to store information on a client device. Other web browsers having cross document messaging and or local storage capabilities also may be used in certain exemplary embodiments.

The user can use the web browser application to view download upload or otherwise access documents or web pages via a distributed network . The network includes a wired or wireless telecommunication system or device by which network devices including devices and can exchange data. For example the network can include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an intranet an Internet or any combination thereof. Throughout the discussion of exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the terms data and information are used interchangeably herein to refer to text images audio video or any other form of information that can exist in a computer based environment.

The web browser application can interact with web servers or other computing devices connected to the network such as web server of the merchant system and or web server of the cloud computing environment .

The user device also includes a digital wallet application module . The exemplary digital wallet can interact with the web browser application or can be embodied as a companion application of the web browser application . As a companion application the digital wallet executes within the web browser application . That is the digital wallet may be an application program embedded in the web browser application .

The user device also includes a data storage unit accessible by the digital wallet and the web browser application . The exemplary data storage unit can include one or more tangible computer readable storage devices as discussed below with reference to . The data storage unit can be stored on the user device or can be logically coupled to the user device . For example the data storage unit can include on board flash memory and or one or more removable memory cards or removable flash memory.

The exemplary digital wallet enables storage of one or more payment options that can be used for online purchases and offline purchases. Each payment option can include or be associated with a financial account such as a credit card account a debit card account a checking account a savings account a loyalty rewards account or other type of account that can be used to make a purchase. The digital wallet can store for each payment option information associated with the financial account for that payment option. This payment information can include a financial account identifier for example account number card number an expiration date of one or more financial cards associated with the financial account and a billing address for the account. The payment information can also include information associated with the user such as name contact information for example residential address phone number e mail address demographic information or any other suitable information associated with the user . The payment information also can include shipping information such as one or more shipping addresses preferred shipping provider s and preferred shipping method s for example ground air expedited signature confirmation or other shipping method . The payment information for each payment option can be maintained by the digital wallet and stored in the data storage unit .

The user can interact with a user interface provided by the digital wallet to add modify or remove payment information from the digital wallet . In a web browser companion application embodiment this user interface can be provided via the web browser application . In addition or in the alternative the payment information may be synchronized with a remote storage location such as the cloud computing environment . In such an embodiment the user can access the payment information stored at the remote location using another device such as a desktop computer connected to the network . The remote storage location can update the digital wallet in response to any changes made at the remote storage location.

The payment option s stored in the digital wallet can be used to complete purchases from merchants via a merchant s website operating on the web server or via a merchant s point of sale device . In certain exemplary embodiments each merchant s website operating on the web server that accepts payment via a digital wallet can include a set of computer readable program instructions for example using JavaScript that enable the merchant s website to interact with the digital wallet . These program instructions can include program instructions for detecting whether the user device includes a digital wallet and program instructions for attaching to a detected digital wallet . Once attached the merchant s website can communicate with the digital wallet for example via cross document messaging. In certain exemplary embodiments the computer readable instructions also include program instructions for downloading a digital wallet onto a user device . For example if the merchant s website detects that the user device does not have a digital wallet the merchant s website can prompt the user to download and install the digital wallet . If the user elects to download the digital wallet the computer readable program code can download and install the digital wallet on the user device . Embedding this computer readable program instructions in a website for interacting with a digital wallet supports a simpler and efficient integration for the merchant system compared to integrating with a third party payment processor.

The merchant s website and the digital wallet can communicate using a defined messaging protocol. The digital wallet can encode a message using the protocol and send the encoded message to the merchant s website where the message is decoded using the protocol. Similarly the merchant s website can encode a message using the protocol and send the encoded message to the digital wallet where the message is decoded using the protocol.

The merchant system includes a payment processor logically coupled to the web server . The payment processor can receive payment information via the web server and interact with the financial institution not shown or an acquirer not shown to authorize payment information.

To complete an online purchase via the Internet the digital wallet can interact with a website of the merchant system and with the user . The user can browse the merchant s website for products using the web browser and indicate a desire to purchase one or more products. As used throughout the specification the term products should be interpreted to include tangible and intangible products as well as services. After the user has indicated a desire to purchase the product s for example by actuating a checkout link the merchant s website can present a user interface in the form of a web page to receive payment information from the user . The merchant s website also can detect whether the user device includes a digital wallet . If the digital wallet is detected the merchant s website can automatically attach to the digital wallet as discussed in further detail below in connection with . In addition or in the alternative the merchant s website can include a pay with wallet link or control that when actuated causes the merchant s website to attach to the digital wallet . Once attached the merchant s website sends a purchase request message to the digital wallet requesting payment information. The purchase request message also can include information regarding the requested purchase including information regarding the product s for purchase for example name and or description of each product price for each product total price etc. information regarding the merchant system for example merchant name payment methods accepted by merchant etc. and requests for the user to provide additional information. In response to receiving a purchase request message from the merchant s website the digital wallet can present a user interface to the user for the user to confirm the purchase. This user interface can display all or a portion of the information in the purchase request and an actuatable button or link for the user to confirm the purchase. This user interface also can allow the user to select from multiple payment options stored by the digital wallet to use as payment for the product s and from multiple shipping options. If the user confirms the purchase the digital wallet can retrieve the information requested in the purchase request message generate a merchant request message that contains the information and the confirmation and transmit the merchant request message to the merchant s website . If the purchase is authorized via the payment processor the merchant s website can transmit an electronic confirmation and or a receipt to the digital wallet and then detach from the digital wallet . The digital wallet can store the confirmation and or receipt at the user device and also synchronize with the cloud computing environment . An exemplary method for completing an online purchase using the digital wallet is illustrated in and discussed below.

The receipt received by the digital wallet can include line item details of the completed purchase. For example the receipt can include a list of products purchased a description of each product purchased the price for each product purchased a product category for each product purchased a total price a stock keeping unit SKU or similar identifier for each product purchased taxes paid rebates for one or more of the products purchased payment method used discounts applied the time and or date of purchase warranty information for one or more of the products purchased or other suitable information. The receipt also can include information regarding the merchant system including a name of the merchant associated with the merchant system a description of the the URL of the merchant s website and any other suitable information regarding the merchant system .

In certain exemplary embodiments the digital wallet can generate a receipt for a purchase rather than or in addition to receiving a receipt from the merchant s website . For example the digital wallet can generate the receipt using the information in the purchase request message received from the merchant s website or from the merchant request message sent to the merchant s website .

The exemplary cloud computing environment includes the web server one or more data storage units and one or more application servers . The cloud computing environment may be provided by the provider of the digital wallet by a merchant or by another party. In certain exemplary embodiments multiple cloud computing environments may be employed. For example a first cloud computing environment may store receipt information and provide access to the receipts from a user device connected to the first cloud computing environment and a second cloud computing environment may provide security information such as lists of non trusted merchants to the digital wallet . Although the illustrated environment includes a cloud computing environment other types of computing environments such as a client server environment may be used instead.

The application server can maintain a digital wallet account for each user including the user . This digital wallet account can store in the data storage unit the payment options created by the user and their associated payment information and receipts and other information obtained by the digital wallet in response to completed transactions. The application server can synchronize this information with the digital wallet periodically on command for example by the user or in response to an update in information at the digital wallet or at the cloud computing environment .

The digital wallet and the web browser application can interact with the application server via the web server . The application server can provide a user interface via the web server that enables the user to access view and or modify content stored in the user s digital wallet account using the user device or another device connected to the network. For example the user may add or modify payment information using a web browser application residing on a desktop computer having a better user interface for entering a significant amount of information.

The exemplary digital wallet can include a user interface for accessing receipt information stored on the user device or at the cloud computing environment in a meaningful and useful way. One feature of this user interface enables the user to search the receipts for information. For example the user may search for a product purchased to determine the price that was paid for the product or when the product was purchased. In another example the user may search for warranty information regarding a product to determine if the warranty has expired. In yet another example the user may search the receipts for merchant return policy information.

This digital wallet s user interface also includes a budgeting feature. This budgeting feature of the digital wallet enables the user to set a budget for expenditures associated with one or more products or product categories and to monitor this budget using the stored receipts. For example the user can set a budget of 200 to spend eating out each month. The digital wallet can run a query on the receipts corresponding to transactions completed in the current month to identify receipts that correspond to a restaurant purchase or otherwise to eating out. The digital wallet can then determine the total dollar amount of these receipts and the remaining budget for the current month.

The digital wallet s user interface also enables the user to filter information associated with receipts and view the filtered information. The receipt information can be filtered by product category merchant time period or any other receipt parameter or combination thereof. For example the user can use the digital wallet to view the total amount spent at a particular merchant such as the merchant associate with merchant system in the past three months or other desired time period.

One or more of the components of the exemplary operating environment such as the user device the web server the web server and the application server can include one or more computer systems such as the computer system illustrated in . Referring to the computer system includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can include any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer system such as during start up is stored in the ROM .

The computer system also includes a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk such as a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM compact disk read write CD RW DVD or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. Although the exemplary computer system employs a ROM a RAM a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk other types of computer readable media also can be used in the exemplary computer system . For example the computer readable media can include any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport data for use by or in connection with one or more components of the computer system including any electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or propagation medium such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges and the like. The drives and their associated computer readable media can provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer system .

A number of modules can be stored on the ROM RAM hard disk drive magnetic disk or optical disk including an operating system an application module and the web browser application the digital wallet and the website application discussed above in connection with . The web browser application the digital wallet website application and application module can include routines sub routines programs objects components data structures etc. which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

A user such as user can enter commands and information to the computer system through input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device . The pointing device can include a mouse a trackball an electronic pen that can be used in conjunction with an electronic tablet or any other input device such as a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port a universal serial bus USB or the like. A display device such as a monitor also can be connected to the system bus via an interface such as video adapter . In addition to the display device the computer can include other peripheral output devices such as speakers not shown and a printer .

The computer system is configured to operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The remote computer can be any network device such as a personal computer a server a client a router a network PC a peer device or other device. While the remote computer typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system only a memory storage device has been illustrated in for simplicity. The logical connections depicted in include a LAN A and a WAN B. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer system is often connected to the LAN A through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer system typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN B such as the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external is connected to system bus via a serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer system or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device .

It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used. Moreover those having ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate that the computer system illustrated in can have any of several other suitable computer system configurations. Furthermore those skilled in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure will recognize that certain components of the computer system may be added deleted or modified in certain alternative embodiments. For example a user device embodied as a mobile phone or handheld computer may not include all the components depicted in and or described above.

The components of the exemplary operating environment are described hereinafter with reference to the exemplary methods illustrated in . The exemplary embodiments can include one or more computer programs that embody the functions described herein and illustrated in the appended flow charts. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing aspects of the exemplary embodiments in computer programming and these aspects should not be construed as limited to one set of computer instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such computer programs to implement exemplary embodiments based on the flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use the exemplary embodiments. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more acts described may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems.

The computer readable program instructions can include program instructions for interacting with web browser applications such as web browser application to determine whether the user device has a digital wallet installed thereon. The computer readable program instructions also can include program instructions for attaching to a detected digital wallet to exchange messages. In certain exemplary embodiments the program instructions are configured to exchange messages with a digital wallet embedded in an HTML5 compliant web browser . In an exemplary embodiment the computer readable program instructions comprise execute when the browser application on the user device downloads a web page from the merchant s website . The browser application executes the code locally to search for an installed digital wallet on the user device . If a digital wallet is installed then the browser is instructed to surface a wallet control button for selection by the user. If a digital wallet is not installed then the browser is instructed to surface another control for interaction with the user such as an option to install a wallet application .

In block the digital wallet is installed on the user device . In certain exemplary embodiments the user can navigate to a website of a provider of the digital wallet and download and install the digital wallet . In certain exemplary embodiments as discussed previously a merchant s website can prompt the user to download and install the digital wallet for example upon selecting the checkout option on the merchant s website . In such an embodiment the user may provide payment information to the merchant s website in a conventional manner and then download and install the digital wallet . The payment information provided to the merchant s website can then be automatically stored in the digital wallet installed on the user device . An exemplary method of installing a digital wallet is discussed further in connection with .

In block the user navigates to the merchant s website using the web browser application . In block the user browses the merchant s website for one or more products to purchase. In block the user indicates a desire to purchase one or more products. For example the user may browse the merchant s website and add products to a virtual shopping cart. Once the user is ready to checkout the user can actuate a checkout link on the merchant s website .

In block the merchant s website presents a web page via the web browser application for obtaining payment information from the user . This web page can include conventional payment options such as a form for receiving payment information and contact information and or a link to a third party payment processor. This web page also can include the computer readable program instructions for detecting and interacting with the digital wallet . Furthermore this web page can include a pay with wallet link or button that the user can select to pay using the digital wallet .

In block the merchant s website interacts with the digital wallet to complete the purchase of the products selected by the user . The merchant s website can attach to the digital wallet and send a purchase request message to the digital wallet . As discussed above the purchase request message can include a request for payment information and further include information regarding the requested purchase such as information associated with the selected products and information associated with the merchant system . In response to receiving the purchase request message the digital wallet can present a user interface to the user for the user to confirm the purchase. The user interface also can allow the user to select from multiple payment options to send to the merchant s website . If the user confirms the purchase the digital wallet sends a merchant request message including the confirmation and payment information associated with the payment option to the merchant s website . The payment processor can interact with an acquirer or the financial institution associated with the payment information to authorize the purchase. Block is discussed in further detail in connection with .

In block the merchant s website sends a message including a receipt to the digital wallet . The receipt can include information associated with the purchase such as a list of products purchased a description of each product purchased the price for each product purchased a product category for each product purchased a total price a stock keeping unit SKU or similar product identifier for each product purchased taxes paid rebates for one or more of the products purchased payment method used discounts applied the time and or date of purchase warranty information for one or more of the products purchased or other suitable information. The receipt also can include information regarding the merchant associated with the merchant system including a name of the merchant a description of the merchant the URL of the merchant s website and other suitable information regarding the merchant or the merchant system .

In block the digital wallet stores the receipt in the data storage unit . In an embodiment where the digital wallet is embedded in an HTML5 compliant web browser application or similar web browser application the digital wallet can employ the local storage functionality of the web browser application to store the receipt in the data storage unit .

In block the digital wallet synchronizes with the cloud computing environment by sending the receipt to the web server . The web server in turn stores in the data storage unit the received receipt in the user s digital wallet account with the cloud computing environment . From step the method ends.

In block the digital wallet and the merchant s website establish a secure connection for communication between the digital wallet and the merchant s website . In certain exemplary embodiments the digital wallet may authenticate the merchant s website prior to establishing the secure connection. For example the digital wallet may compare the merchant name the URL of the merchant s website or the IP address of the merchant s website to a list of known trusted or known non trusted merchants prior to establishing the secure connection. If the merchant system is not trusted by the digital wallet then the digital wallet will not authorize the secure connection rather the digital wallet detaches from the merchant s website by disconnecting the connection between the website and the digital wallet .

After establishing the secure connection in block the merchant s website transmits a purchase request message to the digital wallet . The purchase request message includes a request for payment information from the digital wallet to complete the purchase. The purchase request message also can include information regarding the product s for purchase such as a name and or description of each product a price for each product a total price for all products taxes shipping charges handling charges other charges a SKU or other product identifier for each product shipping options and associated costs and or a discount amount for each product. The purchase request message also can include information regarding the merchant such as the merchant s name a description of the merchant and or payment methods accepted by the merchant for example VISA MASTERCARD debit card or other payment method . In certain exemplary embodiments the purchase request message also can include a request for the user to provide additional information. This request can be configured by the merchant to solicit additional information from the user such as an e mail address or a loyalty rewards account number.

In block the digital wallet receives the purchase request message from the merchant s website and interacts with the user to confirm the purchase. In certain exemplary embodiments this interaction includes the digital wallet presenting a user interface on the user device that displays information associated with the purchase to the user and requests confirmation to complete the purchase. The information displayed by the digital wallet may include some or all of the information included in the purchase request message.

In certain exemplary embodiments the user interface displayed by the digital wallet also enables the user to select from multiple payment options stored by the digital wallet . The user interface also may allow the user to select or update shipping information. The digital wallet may block the user from using a payment option not accepted by the merchant system as indicated in the purchase request message. The user interface also may prompt the user to enter information requested by the merchant system in the purchase request message. After reviewing the purchase information and or selecting a payment method updating shipping information and or providing additional information the user actuates a link or button control to confirm the purchase. If the user does not want to confirm the purchase the user selects a cancel link or button control to cancel the purchase thereby terminating the session between the digital wallet and the website .

In block if the user confirmed the purchase in block the digital wallet generates and transmits a merchant request message to the merchant s website . The merchant request message includes confirmation of the purchase and payment information to use in completing the purchase. For example the merchant request message can include the form of payment and all information needed to process that payment for example credit card number shipping method shipping address e mail address user name and any other information for the purchase transaction. The merchant request message also can include the information in the purchase request message and any information requested by the merchant system . The digital wallet can automatically retrieve payment information for a selected payment option from the data storage unit to include in the merchant request message upon confirmation from the user and or a selection of a payment option by the user .

In block the merchant s website receives the merchant request message and sends the payment information to the payment processor for processing. The payment processor interacts with an acquirer or a financial institution associated with the payment information to authorize the payment information and to credit and debit the appropriate accounts for payment from the user to the merchant.

In block the web server receives a message from the payment processor indicating whether the payment information was authorized. If the payment information was authorized the method follows the YES branch to step as referenced in . Otherwise the method follows the NO branch to step .

In step the merchant s website notifies the user that the payment information was not authorized and can prompt the user to try another payment option. After block the method returns to block where the digital wallet interacts with the user to complete the purchase using a different payment option. The user could cancel the purchase if the user does not want to complete the purchase using a different payment option.

In block the merchant s website scans the user device and or the web browser application to determine whether a digital wallet is installed on the user device or embedded in the web browser application . In block if the merchant s website detects a digital wallet then the method follows the YES branch and ends as a digital wallet is already installed on the user device . If a digital wallet is not detected by the merchant s website the method follows the NO branch to block .

In block the merchant s website presents a form for the user to provide payment information to complete the purchase of the one or more products. This form can be similar to a conventional web form having text entry fields for receiving credit card debit card or other payment information shipping address billing address e mail address name phone number and other user information. The form also can include fields for receiving user information and user contact information.

In block the user completes the form by providing the requested information and submits the form to the merchant s website . In block the merchant system processes the received payment information and completes the transaction. In block the merchant s website prompts the user to download and install the digital wallet on the user device .

In block if the user elects to install the digital wallet the method follows the YES branch to block . Otherwise the method follows the NO branch and the method ends.

In block the merchant s website downloads and initiates the installation of the digital wallet on the user device . During the installation process the digital wallet can prompt the user to set up a digital wallet account at the cloud computing environment. The user can opt in or opt out of this feature and also can select to install or activate certain features only. If the user opts in to the digital wallet account the digital wallet can obtain information from the user for the account such as payment information contact information preferred shipping information and a user name and password for security purposes.

The installed digital wallet can interact with the merchant s website to obtain the payment information used to complete the purchase and a receipt for the purchase. In block the digital wallet stores the payment information and the receipt in the data storage unit . If the user elected to create a digital wallet account with the cloud computing environment the digital wallet synchronizes the receipt and the payment information with the digital wallet account.

In an alternative exemplary embodiment the installation of the digital wallet on user device can occur prior to step whereby the user downloads the digital wallet application provides the payment and user information for storage by the digital wallet on the date storage unit and then completes the purchase with the website via the digital wallet .

The exemplary embodiments described herein can be used with computer hardware and software that perform the methods and processing functions described previously. The systems methods and procedures described herein can be embodied in a programmable computer computer executable software or digital circuitry. The software can be stored on computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include a floppy disk RAM ROM hard disk removable media flash memory memory stick optical media magneto optical media CD ROM etc. Digital circuitry can include integrated circuits gate arrays building block logic field programmable gate arrays FPGA etc.

The exemplary methods and acts described in the embodiments presented previously are illustrative and in alternative embodiments certain acts can be performed in a different order in parallel with one another omitted entirely and or combined between different exemplary embodiments and or certain additional acts can be performed without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly such alternative embodiments are included in the inventions described herein.

Although specific embodiments have been described above in detail the description is merely for purposes of illustration. It should be appreciated therefore that many aspects described above are not intended as required or essential elements unless explicitly stated otherwise. Modifications of and equivalent acts corresponding to the disclosed aspects of the exemplary embodiments in addition to those described above can be made by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined in the following claims the scope of which is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass such modifications and equivalent structures.

