---

title: Increasing engagement of low engagement users in a social network
abstract: Techniques to increase engagement with a social networking system. In one embodiment, an engagement level of a user with a social networking system is monitored. A low engagement user type associated with the user is identified from a plurality of low engagement user types. It is determined whether the engagement level of the user is less than a threshold. If so, a communication is provided for the user based on the low engagement user type associated with the user. The communication may be a notification or a digest communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903927&OS=08903927&RS=08903927
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08903927
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
The present application relates to social networking and in particular systems and methods for increasing engagement of low engagement users in a social network.

Social networking websites provide a dynamic environment in which members can connect to and communicate with other members. These websites commonly may provide online mechanisms allowing members to interact within their preexisting social networks as well as create new social networks. Members may include any individual or other entity such as an organization or business. Among other attributes social networking websites allow members to effectively and efficiently communicate relevant information to their social networks.

A member of a social network may highlight or share personal information news stories relationship activities music and any other content of interest to areas of the website dedicated to the member. Other members of the social network may access the shared content by browsing member profiles or performing dedicated searches. Upon access to and consideration of the content the other members may react by taking one or more responsive actions such as providing an opinion about the content or other feedback. The ability of members to interact in this manner fosters communications among them and helps to realize the goals of social networking websites.

Low engagement with the social networking website poses myriad disadvantages. For example if the user posts infrequently or posts unpopular or uninteresting content to the social networking website that user may elicit little or no feedback from other members. In another example if the user is a new user or has not connected to many other users within the social networking website the user s postings may only be available to a few members and may not elicit any or significant feedback. If the user has little interaction on the social networking website she may not experience the full potential of the social networking website and may be less likely to visit and frequent the website in the future.

To increase user engagement with a social networking system embodiments of the invention provide communications to be sent to a user regarding activities in the social network of the user. In an embodiment of the invention an engagement level of a user with a social networking system is monitored. A low engagement user type associated with the user is identified from a plurality of low engagement user types. It is determined whether the engagement level of the user is less than a threshold. If so a communication is provided for the user based on the low engagement user type associated with the user. The communication may be a notification or a digest communication. Information for inclusion within the communication may be selected based upon the low engagement user type.

In an embodiment of the invention the threshold may correspond to types of low engagement user types. The threshold may be based on various predetermined values including but not limited to time between logins of the user time between visits of the user to the social networking system an amount of content shared by the user over a period of time an amount of feedback received by the user in response to content shared by the user over time a number of friends of the user a time after the account of the user is created or any combination thereof.

In an embodiment of the invention the communication can include various types of information to be sent to the user. The information can include but is not limited to a notification about the occurrence of an event an indication that another user likes content shared by the user an indication that another user likes content in which the user has been tagged an identification of other users determined to be potential friends of the user or any other activity directly or indirectly related to the social networking system.

In an embodiment of the invention the engagement level of the user may be continuously monitored to determine whether the engagement level is less than the threshold. Communications may be provided for the user so long as the engagement level is less than the threshold.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device may interact with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally a markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable customization of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers including one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . In an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes for example.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server and a low engagement module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains user profiles including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system and the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user profiles of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Rash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. For example the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

The social networking system may also include the low engagement module to identify low engagement users and increase the level of engagement of the low engagement users with the social networking system . The level of interaction between various users and the social networking system may vary. For example while some users may often engage with the social networking system other users may less frequently so engage. While some users have befriended many other users other users have only a few friends. And while some users frequently post content that is viewed as interesting or engaging other users post infrequently or post poor quality content that does not receive feedback or comments from other users.

Users may have limited engagement with the social networking system for a variety of reasons. For example they may choose to spend much of their social time in offline activities. As another example even when online they may choose to frequent other websites. Low levels of engagement impede communications among members of a social network and detract from the overall user experience of the social networking system . In some cases a low engagement user may lose interest in the social network if the user has not connected to many other users or if the content posted by the user does not receive feedback. If the user loses interest in the social network the user may become less active or inactive or may even deregister from the social network. In contrast a high level of engagement for all users fosters communication among users and helps to realize the potential of the social networking system .

Once it has been determined that a user is a low engagement user the low engagement module can selectively provide tailored communications to the low engagement user to increase the user s engagement with the social networking system . The low engagement module may control the content and frequency of communications provided to users regarding activities that have transpired in their social networks or suggestions about how to participate in their social network. Such communication encourages low engagement users having a low level of engagement with the social networking system to increase their engagement with the social networking system as discussed in more detail below.

The low engagement module may also categorize low engagement users into different categories of low engagement so that the social networking system can provide appropriate communications to the low engagement users. In an embodiment the low engagement module can tailor the content and frequency of the communications based on the type of low engagement category. For example if the low engagement user is a new user the low engagement module can send an email that identifies the user s friends or can suggest users that the new user may wish to befriend. As will be discussed below different types of communications can be sent to users depending upon their type of low engagement in order to maximize the effectiveness of the communication in encouraging increased activity on the social networking system .

The low engagement module includes an email engine a communication transfer agent CTA a multifeed module a coefficient module a communication log a login log and a low engagement identification ID module . In an embodiment of the invention the functions performed by the components e.g. logs engines modules etc. shown in may be variously replaced by combined with or integrated into other components. In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The email engine controls the provision of communications through the communication transfer agent CTA to a user of the social networking system based on information exchanged with the multifeed module the coefficient module the communication log the login log and the low engagement identification ID module . The communication transfer agent CTA may provide electronic communications e.g. messages to a user who receives such messages through for example email SMS or a message system external to the social networking system such as the external system .

In an embodiment the low engagement ID module may identify users and target those users whose engagement with the social networking system is low. The users may be identified and categorized into different types of low engagement users. Low engagement ID module may compare the activity or attributes related to activity of a user on the social networking system to one or more activity thresholds corresponding to different types of low engagement. It may be determined that if a user falls below a particular threshold then the engagement level of the user may not be optimal. In an embodiment the thresholds may be predetermined or selected values that may represent minimum acceptable levels of activity for users that engage with the social networking system .

In one embodiment the low engagement ID module may identify users who have posted little content to the social networking system as low feedback users one type of low engagement users. Content can include but is not limited to status updates photos videos articles links announcements events likes comments and the like. The low engagement ID module can monitor the amount of content or the number of content items posted by a user or the frequency of content postings by the user. If for example the frequency of the content postings falls below the threshold of a predetermined frequency low engagement ID module can categorize the user as a low engagement user. The predetermined content posting frequency can be for example one post per day two posts per week eight posts per month or any desired frequency.

Additionally or alternatively the low engagement ID module can identify the user as a low feedback user if the user receives little feedback on the content she posts or posts little content or shares or both. Feedback can be responses provided by other users to content posted by the user. For example other users can provide feedback by liking or commenting on content posted by the user. Feedback can also include responses provided by other users to content associated with the user. As an example other users can provide feedback to the user if they like or comment on content in which the user is identified or tagged. In general other users can provide feedback by responding within the social networking system to content associated with the user or content posted by the user. If the feedback received by the user falls below the threshold of a predetermined frequency low engagement ID module can categorize the user as a low engagement user. The predetermined feedback frequency can be for example 1 feedback entry per day 2 feedback entries per week 2 feedback entries every two weeks 8 feedback entries per month or any desired frequency. In an embodiment the low engagement ID module may also identify the user as a low feedback user if the amount of content posts or shares of the user in a first time period falls below a threshold. In an embodiment the low engagement ID module may identify a user as a low feedback user if both the amount of content posts or shares of the user in first time period falls below a first threshold and the amount of feedback on the posts or shares of the user in a second period of time falls below a second threshold. In an embodiment the first time period and the second time period may be any suitable values and may be different or the same. Likewise the first threshold and the second threshold may be any suitable values whether different or the same. For example the threshold relating to the number of posts and the threshold relating to the number of feedback may be less than or equal to eight posts per month and two feedback on posts within the last 14 days respectively.

The low engagement ID module can also characterize users who have not logged into or visited the social networking system for a particular time period or who have logged in infrequently as low activity users another type of low engagement users. Low engagement ID module may use predetermined time periods and predetermined thresholds for log ins or visits to determine whether a user is a low engagement user. For example if a user has not logged into the social networking system within a predetermined time period of for example 30 days the user may be categorized as a low engagement user. The predetermined time period also can be one day one week 30 days 60 days 90 days or any time period desired. Also if the frequency of a user logging in or visiting is less than a predetermined frequency the user may be characterized as a low engagement user. For example if the user s log in frequency is less than say two logins per week then low engagement ID module may determine that the user is a low engagement user. The predetermined frequency can be any desired frequency such as two logins per week five logins per day ten logins per month 50 logins per year or any other frequency. The low engagement ID module may also identify users as low activity users based on the number or frequency of logins or visits to the social networking system through each or combinations of various devices or access channels such as a mobile phone a tablet the web other websites integrated or otherwise affiliated with the social networking system etc.

In yet another embodiment the low engagement ID module may characterize a user with a low number of friends a low friend count user as another type of low engagement user. Users with a low number of friend connections on the social networking system may be less inclined to revisit the social networking system because they have few other users with whom to interact. Therefore low engagement ID module may characterize users with fewer than a predetermined number of friends i.e. connections to other users as low engagement users. The predetermined number of friends can be any desired number including but not limited to one friend five friends ten friends 50 friends 200 friends etc.

The low engagement ID module in an embodiment may also characterize new users i.e. users who recently created their account as another type of low engagement users. In this case low engagement ID module may determine that the user is a new user based upon the age of the account. In some instances new users may be less inclined to revisit the social networking system . This may be because the new user has made few connections with other users or because the user has not yet explored the features of the social networking system . If the age of the user account is less than a predetermined age then the user may be characterized as a new user. The predetermined age can be one day one week one month or any desired time period.

The low engagement ID module may also characterize user accounts as new users based on the age of the account and the amount of activity related to the account since the account was created. As an example a user may be characterized as a new user if she has had no activity within two days of account creation. The amount of activity can be any desired amount and the type of activity can be any activity associated with the user. Similarly the age of the account can be any desired age. For example a user can be characterized as a new user if the account was created two days ago and there has been no login activity in that time if the user account was created one week ago and there has only been one login in that time etc.

Various examples of types of low engagement user have been provided. However other types of low engagement users may be defined according to other criteria that may be used to determine if the user s engagement is low including but not limited to a number of games played by the user a number of clicks made by the user on one or more web pages of the social networking system a duration of time the user has spent using the social networking system a number of advertisements viewed or clicked by the user etc. As a generalization a user who has any type of low engagement in connection with social networking system can be characterized as a low engagement user so that the low engagement module can take action to encourage increased activity on the site. Additionally the criteria for determining whether a user is a low engagement user can be applied individually or can be combined in any way desired. For example in an embodiment the low engagement ID module may categorize a user as a low engagement based solely on the age of the user account. Similarly in an embodiment low engagement ID module may combine low engagement categories and categorize a user as a low engagement user if the user has posted content at low frequency and has received feedback at a low frequency. Various other combinations can also be used to categorize a user as a low engagement user.

Further while example predetermined values have been discussed as possible thresholds to identify categories of low engagement users various types of thresholds may be used. In an embodiment the thresholds may be absolute values relative values or combinations of both. A relative threshold to identify a low engagement user may be based on a quantitative comparison of a measure of the activity of the user with a measure e.g. actual average mean etc. of the activities of a friend or friends of the user or other groups of users of the social networking system . The other groups of users may include users who are in part or in whole similar to a demographic profile of the user in question. For example a threshold to identify a user as a low engagement user may be based on a value associated with the number of likes provided by or directed to a user divided by the number of likes provided by or directed to an average user in a predetermined group of users such as a group including friends of the user. As another example a threshold to identify a user as a low engagement user may be based on a value associated with the number of comments provided by or directed to a user divided by the number of comments provided by or directed to an average user having the same or similar age geographic location educational level ethnicity gender or any other demographic feature.

Once the user is identified as a low engagement user the low engagement module may provide a communication to the user to encourage increased activity on the social networking system . Communications provided by the social networking system to the user may include various types of messages email text messages etc. about activities that have taken place within the social network of the user or items of interest within the social network of the user. The communications may be provided to the user as email text RSS or any other suitable type of communication vehicle. The communications may include data and information designed to increase engagement of the user on the social networking system .

The coefficient module may be used in preparing the communications. The coefficient module can provide coefficients as measures of relatedness between nodes in the social graph of the social networking system . For example coefficients may indicate that a user is closer to her best friend than to another person befriended by the user. In some instances coefficients may provide or use weights for edges between nodes in the social graph to determine relatedness. For example a greater weight may be given for a certain online game if the user plays the online game more often than another online game or to a particular friend of the user if that friend frequently comments on the status of the user or of another friend of the user. The coefficient module may store raw features about interactions between nodes and has trained algorithms based thereon to provide general purpose functions to provide rankings intelligence suggestions and recommendations.

Since there may be multiple paths between any two nodes the measure of relatedness may also be based how many paths connect two nodes in the social graph. For example if a User A makes two comments on an article posted by a User B there may be two paths between User A and the posted article one for each comment made by User A. Using the same example if User A and User B are friends there may be an additional path that indirectly connects User A to the article through User B who posted the article. In some cases as the number of paths between two nodes increases the measure of relatedness between those nodes may also increase.

The coefficient module may be a function service program library script or other type of compiled or interpreted executable software module. It may be called by other services and applications for custom functions using the interactions. For example the coefficient module may be used to select stories or other types of content posted from the closest friends of a user to sort bookmarks to online games that the user most often plays and to sort a list of friends based on whom the user may most frequently communicate using instant message or chat services. The services and applications that employ use or call coefficients may be part of or external to the social networking system including mobile applications and non mobile applications.

The measure of relatedness may be based on a variety of possible interactions between nodes whether internal or external to the social networking system . Nodes may include users people pages or any object in the social graph. The determination of relatedness may be directional or directionless and may depend on the interaction closeness weight between nodes or on other relationships between nodes and edges in the social graph. As an example the relatedness from one user e.g. User A to another user e.g. User B may be based on various interactions between the users including but not limited to whether User A commented on a photo of User B User A liked content or a status update of User B User A posted on the wall of User B User A was on the same thread as User B User A appears in the same photo as User B a certain amount of time e.g. days transpires with or without User A engaging with User B or content of User B User A linked to a comment of User B User A shared content of User B with others User A mentioned User B in a wall comment User A viewed profile or other web page of User B User A and User B share common friends User A or User B have searched for each other User A and User B read the same article User A and User B play the same browser game etc.

The foregoing interactions are merely examples and other interactions may be considered in the determination of coefficients between two nodes. In the foregoing example concerning the determination of User A s coefficient for User B many of the possible interactions informing the coefficient are based on actions of User A. However other interactions involving actions of User B may also be considered in the determination of User A s coefficient for User B. Such interactions may include but are not limited to whether User B viewed a photo of User A User B viewed an album of User A a certain amount of time e.g. days transpires with or without User B engaging with User A or content of User A etc. Further the interactions that inform the determination of relatedness by the coefficient module may be based on various historical time durations. The determination of relatedness may also be based on a frequency of interaction within those historical time durations. For example determinations of relatedness may be based on how many times or how frequently interactions occurred within the last 30 days 60 days 90 days etc. For example how often User A views the profile or content associated with User B may be determined and expressed as an observation coefficient.

The various interactions can also be weighted so that some types of interactions affect the measure of relatedness between nodes more than others. For example in one embodiment an interaction of User A and User B directly searching for each other may be given more weight than User A and User B commenting on the same thread. In this case because of the weighting the coefficient module may provide a greater measure of relatedness between User A and User B if they have searched for each other than if they merely commented on the same thread. This example is provided only for illustrative purposes. Any desired weighting can be assigned to any interaction as desired so that different interactions affect the measure of relatedness more or less so than others.

Various services may call the coefficient module to use coefficients in their computations. For example a Top Friends service may use the coefficients to determine which friends are most closely related to a user within the social graph. In other words top friends may refer to a prioritized identification of connections of the user with whom she enjoys the highest measures of relatedness. The determination of top friends may be used by the social networking system in a variety of contexts such as to identify participants to play online games to identify relevant connections to the user for inclusion in her social network to display a listing of photos of persons having highest relevance to the user to otherwise display or list an identification of persons having highest relevance to the user to identify persons with whom the user can engage in an instant message or chat session etc. Other examples of services that may use coefficients include but are not limited to Top Users Top Pages Top Applications Top Fans etc. Coefficients are further discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The email engine through a Top Friends or similar service may call the coefficient module to identify the friends of the user with high measures of relatedness. The measures of relatedness provided by the coefficient module and relevant services may allow for the identification of top friends of the user. The identification of top friends in turn may allow information about activities regarding such friends to be prioritized over activities relating to others. Once prioritized the information about activities may be selected for inclusion in communications for the user provided by the email engine . Such information may relate to for example photos and stories posted by the top friends of the user.

In an embodiment of the invention to identify the friends having the highest measures of relatedness with the user the friends may be ranked based on their respective coefficients with the user. Then a predetermined number of friends may be selected from the top of the ranking. Once friends with the highest measures of relatedness are identified the activities associated with them may be prioritized over the activities of others. The email engine then may create references associated with the prioritized activities and embed the references in communications. The references may be classified into different types of information and presented separately in the communication according to their types. In an embodiment the ranking of friends may be based on relationship information between a user and another user or content of another user other than as provided by the coefficient module .

In some instances coefficients may be used to provide a measure of relatedness between users that are not already connected as friends. This may allow the social networking system to provide friend suggestions to a user. For example a friend suggestion list service may provide a list of suggested users that the user can befriend. To create the list the service may call coefficients to determine which other users that are not already connected to the user are most closely related to the user through various interactions. The friend suggestion list service can then provide a list of those users who are most closely related so that the social networking system can suggest that the user may wish to befriend them.

Like the top friends the users who are the top friend suggestions may be ranked based on their respective coefficients with the user. A predetermined number of friend suggestions can then be selected from the top rankings. These top friend suggestions can be provided to the user in communications so that the user can make additional connections to other users of the social networking system .

The communication log maintains information about communications provided by the social networking system to the user. The communication log may include transactional information such as the category and type of communications sent to the user as well as the activities that prompt or trigger provision of the notifications. The communication log also may include information regarding the date and time the communications are provided to the user. In an embodiment of the invention the communication log may be implemented as a database table.

A notification is a type of communication for which the communication log maintains information. As described in more detail below a notification may be a message that is sent to the user account immediately upon the occurrence of an event. is an example of a notification setting page that shows types of possible notifications that may be provided by the social networking system to a user. In some cases events may trigger the social network to send a notification to a user. For example if another user likes a user s status the social networking system can immediately send a notification to the user to inform the user that the other user likes the status. Notifications can also be sent after a delay predetermined or otherwise. The notification setting page can allow the user to control what events will trigger sending a notification and what types of notifications are sent.

Recent notifications list the notifications that have been provided to the user in the recent past. As shown the recent notifications may include for example invitations provided to a user to like the webpage of a friend within the social network of the user of the social networking system . As another example the recent notifications may include notice that a friend within the social network of the user has commented about content that has been posted to an area within the social networking system dedicated to the friend. As yet another example the recent notifications may include an indication that a friend of the user likes content posted by the user. The recent notifications may include other types of notifications as well.

Notification listing enumerates example categories of notifications that may be sent to the user. Notification categories may include for example a social networking website photos groups pages events questions notes links video help center wall comments places deals other updates credits and other applications. Each category may provide for notifications that are sent to the user when an event relating to the particular category occurs. For example notifications concerning the social networking website category may be provided to the user when for example a friend of the user sends a message to the user within the social networking website another adds the user as a friend within a social network another confirms a request by the user to become friends another posts to a portion of a social network website that is dedicated to the user another pokes the user another requests that the user be identified as family member not shown another likes the post of the user not shown birthdays of friends of the user are imminent etc. As another example notifications concerning the photos category may be provided to the user when for example the user is tagged in a photo another comments on a photo in which the user appears or is tagged the user uploads a photo to the social networking website etc. Like notifications concerning the social networking website category and the photos category notifications for other categories of the notification listing may also be provided to the user upon the occurrence of certain activities related to the category. In an embodiment of the invention other categories of notifications and notifications for each category not shown in may be provided by the social networking system and may be entirely or partially included in the notification listing .

The notification setting page may provide for real time or intermittent provision of notifications upon the occurrence of the associated event. For example when a user has chosen to receive notifications when a friend of the user likes a post of the user a notification may be sent as soon as the social networking system determines that the event has occurred. In an embodiment of the invention notifications may be accumulated and sent in batches at predetermined frequencies. For example when a user has chosen to receive notifications about upcoming birthdays of friends notifications about one or many birthdays of friends may be sent at a specific interval as shown in . In an embodiment of the invention the timing and frequency of notifications may be determined by the user the social networking system or a combination thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the notification settings of the user may be maintained in the user profile store .

In a customize mode for notifications the notification listing may allow the user to select which of the possible notifications may be provided to the user. For example the user may choose to receive a notification when someone in the social network sends a message to the user but may choose not to receive a notification when another in the social network adds the user as a friend. As another example the user may choose to receive a notification when another person in the social network of the user confirms the user as a friend but may choose not to receive a notification when another person posts a message on space provided by the social networking system dedicated to the user. The customize mode allows the user to implement personalized notification preferences based on the importance or interest level of the notifications. In the customize mode the notification settings may be set and changed entirely or partially by the user.

In a minimal email mode for notifications all or a significant portion of the possible notifications are not provided to the user when the activities that would otherwise trigger the notifications occur. In the minimal email mode the notification listing may display a listing of notifications that are disabled not shown in and not selectable by the user. Disabling notifications prevents the user from selectively choosing which notifications to receive or not to receive as is possible in the customize mode. The minimal email mode may be implemented to stop or prevent the user from receiving any notifications about activities concerning her social network. In an embodiment of the invention control over notifications to be provided to the user and selection of the customize mode or the minimal email mode may be exercised by the user the social networking system or a combination thereof.

Although the notification listing shows settings for notifications the social networking system can also provide settings pages for other types of communications as well. For example a digest communication settings page may allow the user to control the type of information included in a digest communication the frequency of the digest communication etc. As will be discussed below a digest communication may be a communication that includes a list of recent activity and or other information that has recently occurred on the social networking site. A digest communication settings page may allow the user to include or exclude any type of information or activity in the digest communication.

Referring again to the multifeed module may provide other types of information about the social network of a user. The multifeed module may manage and track information about activities of friends and other contacts of the user. For example the multifeed module may provide information about status information posted by friends. Status information may include temporary information published by a friend of the user that reflects the current thoughts and expressions of the friend. By its nature posted status information may change frequently and the multifeed module tracks such changes. As another example the multifeed module may also track information about photos and videos that are posted by friends of the user.

The multifeed module may also track stories concerning friends of the user. Stories may include various actions taken by the friends in the social network. For example a story may involve one or more friends liking the photo of another friend. As another example a story may involve one or more friends liking the status of another friend. In addition to the information described herein other types of information also may be tracked by the multifeed module .

The login log maintains information regarding the history of engagement by a user with the social networking system . The engagement information maintained by the login log may include information regarding the date and times of prior visits by the user to the social networking system . The engagement information may also include the date and time of the last visit by the user to the social networking system . In an embodiment of the invention the login log may maintain other types of engagement information such as the history of logins to the social networking system by the user or the history of certain acts or actions taken by the user.

The email engine may compare information from the login log with one or more predetermined time intervals to determine whether to provide a communication to the user. The communication can include a digest of activity a list of friend suggestions a description of activity that recently took place or any other information. In particular the email engine may retrieve from the login log the date and time of the last engagement of the user with the social networking system and or the date and time of the last email sent to the user by the email engine . If the time since the last engagement and or the time since the last email is more than one or more predetermined time intervals the email engine causes the communication to be provided to the user. In an embodiment of the invention a predetermined time interval is two days. In other embodiments of the invention the predetermined time interval may be more or less than two days.

After the communication is provided to the user the email engine may periodically send additional communications such as emails. For every instance when the time since the last engagement by the user with the social networking system exceeds the predetermined time interval an additional communication may be provided to the user. For example if the predetermined time interval is two days a user who has not visited the social networking system for five days will receive two separate communications. From the time of the last visit by the user to the social networking system one communication will be provided after the second day and the other digest email will be provided after the fourth day. A user that is engaged at a low level with the social networking system thus may receive a series of communications at predetermined time intervals based on an extended period of no engagement. The time period between communications may be set so as to provide timely reminders and encourage the user to log into visit and engage with the social networking system . The time period between communications may also be set so that the frequency of communications sent to the user is not too high or does not exceed a certain value.

Each communication may be provided during a period of low engagement by a user at different predetermined time intervals. For example the communication may be continually provided at a first predetermined time interval for a first period of time. In this example the first predetermined time interval may be every two days and the first period of time may be 14 days. After that first period of time the communication may be continually provided at a second predetermined time interval for a second period of time. In this example the second predetermined time interval may be every 14 days and the second period of time may be the time period after an initial 14 days. In a similar manner additional communications may be provided at other predetermined time intervals for other periods of time. In an embodiment the frequency of the communications can progressively decrease from period of time to period of time so that over time the user receives less frequent communications. In another embodiment the frequency of the communications can progressively increase or can vary in any other desired manner between periods of time. The predetermined time intervals and the periods of time may vary and take any values determined by the social networking system to be suitable. In an embodiment communications may be provided during a period of low engagement by a user at variable time periods depending on user activity or other attributes associated with the user.

The email engine can also impose a frequency cap for communications to the user account. For example if there is a large amount of activity on the social networking system related to the user account the social networking system may generate a large amount of communications for the user. In order to limit the number of communications received the email engine can impose a frequency cap i.e. a maximum frequency for communications sent to the user. In an embodiment the frequency cap may be a predetermined frequency designed so that the user account does not receive too many communications. The frequency cap can also be a frequency setting that can be set by the user. The frequency cap can be any appropriate frequency including but not limited to a number of communications per minute per hour per day per week per month etc.

The frequency cap may also be a maximum number of messages sent to a user in relation to a particular piece of content. In other words if content posted by the user elicits a large amount of feedback the email engine can stop sending communications such as notifications about the feedback after a maximum amount of notifications have been sent. For example if the maximum number of notifications per content is 100 and a user has already received 100 items of feedback for a comment she posted then email engine may refrain from sending additional notifications as more feedback is received. The maximum number of notifications can be any desired number including but not limited to ten 100 500 1000 2000 etc.

The communication may contain information about certain activities that have occurred within the social network of the user. The communications may be designed to include content that when considered by the user is most likely or optimized to cause the user to engage with the social networking system . Thus the communications may contain prioritized information about the social network of the user that has been determined to be important to the user.

Although the communication has been described as an email it is not limited to email. For example the communication can be an instant message a text message a web page presented to the user or any other form of communication that can be provided by a computing system.

The digest communication includes a pending notification section a friend identification section and a top stories section . The pending notification section includes a count of notifications in the categories of friend requests messages and notifications. The friend identification section indicates that top friends have posted content in the social network of the user. The friend identification section includes photos of the top friends and identifies some of them by name. The top stories section includes two stories regarding friends of the user. Inclusion of these sections may act to encourage the recipient to increase engagement on the social networking system . The design and appearance of digest communications may vary from the example in . For example in some instances the digest communication may include a single section or multiple sections that describe or summarize the activity on the social networking system .

In an embodiment a digest communication can include a summary of activity that has taken place with respect to one particular piece of content posted to the social networking system . Say for example that a user posts an article to the social networking system and that a number of other users like or comment on the article. In this case a digest communication may include an aggregation of all the activity i.e. the likes and comments related to the article. In some instances the aggregation of activity related to the particular content may be included within a section of the digest communication. In other instances the digest communication may include only the activity related to the particular content. Such a digest can be sent to for example a low feedback user or other type of low engagement user to encourage the user to increase engagement with the social networking system .

The digest communication is intended to encourage the user to engage directly with the social networking system . The digest communication thus includes a button or link that links to the social networking system . A button or link allows the user to see a listing of all notifications. If the notifications provided to the user are currently turned off then a link allows the user to turn the notifications back on. A link allows the user to unsubscribe from future provisions of digest communications. The buttons and links described herein when selected by the user are user selections provided to the social networking system . One skilled in the art will recognize that other GUI features that direct the user to the social networking system can be substituted for the buttons and links.

In an embodiment of the invention other types of information may be embedded in the communications. For example in addition to or instead of notification counts friend identifications and top stories photos posted to the social networking system by top friends of the user may be included as references in the digest communications. Persons having the highest measures of relatedness of the user may be identified as top friends of the user. Then the images posted by the top friends may be embedded in the digest communications for the user. The digest communication may include a message about the top friends in addition to the images themselves. For example the message may be a statement identifying the images embedded in the digest communication as images posted by top friends of the user since the user last engaged with the social networking system . The images may located in a portion of the digest communication that is separate from the other types of information included in the digest communication.

The communication can be sent once to the user after the user has had low engagement with the social networking system for a period of time. The communication can also be sent periodically to a low engagement user. The communication can be scheduled to be sent every day every few days every week or on any desired schedule.

The communication can also include other features such as buttons and that facilitate logging onto and using the social networking system . For example the button when clicked can immediately bring the user to one or more webpages presented by the social networking system . The Button when clicked may bring the user directly to a page of the social networking system where she can find additional friends with whom to connect.

As an example a notification in can be sent to the user when another user provides feedback by liking the user s status posting. The notification can include text that informs the user of the feedback. The notification can also include buttons and and icon . The button and the icon may link directly to a webpage where the user can view the feedback or information related to the activity or content described in the notification . The button may link to a webpage where the user can view a list of notifications she has received.

As another example a notification in can be sent to a user when another user provides feedback by commenting on content in which the user was tagged. The notification can include text informing the user of the feedback as well as button and icon which may link directly to a webpage where the user can view the feedback or information related to the activity or content described in the notification .

A notification in can be sent to a user when another user comments on content such as a link posted by the user. The notification can include text informing the user of the feedback as well as text which displays the comment made by the other user. Button may link directly to a webpage where the user can view the comment. Similarly button may link directly to a webpage where the user can view the entire comment thread. As shown by text a user can reply to the notification to respond to the comment from the other user. Once the user replies to the notification the user s reply may be added or appended directly to the comment thread so that the user s reply becomes an additional comment to the content.

Notifications can also be triggered by information stored by social networking system in the absence of user activity. For example notifications may be triggered by a user s birthday and sent to other users to inform them of the birthday. Other notifications based on events unrelated to user activity also may be sent to low engagement users.

Once the user receives the notifications or or other notifications or communications the user will know that an activity or event has taken place or will take place and may log into social networking system to learn more or otherwise participate in her social network as to the activity. In this way notifications can cause the user to increase engagement with the social networking system .

In some embodiments the social networking system can select the type of activity to reference in communications. For example if a user does not wish to receive a large number of emails the social networking system can send communications only to announce activity performed by the user s top friends. As another example if the user is a new user or has a low number of friends the social networking system can send a notification whenever any of the user s friends performs activity on the social network. Since the user may have few friends the user may not receive too many emails. Moreover receiving a notification whenever a friend performs an activity may encourage the user with few friend connections to log onto or visit the social networking system and engage in activity.

Notifications sent by the social networking system are not limited to the examples shown in D and E. Notifications can be provided to the user for any type of activity on the social networking system including but not limited to receiving feedback receiving invitations friend requests birthdays new users creating an account users logging in changes in status posting of content or any other occurrence event or information associated with the social networking system .

Notifications can be sent to low engagement users in order to encourage the low engagement users to increase activity on the social networking system . If a user is a low feedback user notifications can be sent to the user when the user receives feedback from her social network. For example a notification may be provided for the user whenever another user likes content posted by the user. As another example a notification may be sent whenever another user likes content in which the user was tagged.

If the user has a low friend count notifications can be sent to the user for example every time one of the user s friends performs an action on the social networking system . The notifications can be sent whenever the users post content provide feedback or engage in other types of activity on the social networking system . In an embodiment of the invention the action may not directly relate to the user. For example the low friend count user can receive notifications if one of her friends comments on content unrelated to the user or content posted by a another user who is unrelated. If the user has few friends then the amount of notifications provided for the user may be a modest number and thus acceptable.

As another example if a user has a low friend count then the social networking system may send a notification to the user whenever one of the user s friends has a birthday. If the user has 10 friends then the user will receive an acceptable number of birthday notifications because the user will only receive 10 birthday notifications per year at most.

Notifications can also be sent to a user with a low friend count or other type of low engagement user when the relatedness between two users as determined by the coefficient module crosses a threshold. As two users who are not connected as friends interact the measure of relatedness between those two users may increase. For example if the two users comment on the same content or if the two users have an increasing number of mutual friends then the measure of relatedness between those two users may increase. Once the measure of relatedness crosses a predetermined threshold social networking system may send a notification suggesting that the two users become friends. Assume for example that low friend count User A is friends with User B and User B recently befriended User C. In this case the measure of relatedness between low friend count User A and User C may increase because both users are now connected to User B. If the measure of relatedness increased above a predetermined threshold then social networking system may send a notification to User A suggesting that User A befriend User C.

The information maintained in the sources is provided to prioritization and reference generation . Prioritization and reference generation sorts the information and prioritizes it based on relevance to the user. Prioritization and reference generation may implement computational algorithms to quantitatively rank information by its relevance to the user. For example the prioritization and reference generation may implement algorithms of the coefficient module and related services to determine measures of relatedness between the user and others and select activities associated with persons having the highest measures of relatedness.

Once information of threshold relevance is identified the prioritization and reference generation may create references for the most relevant information. The references then may be provided for an inclusion in a communication . In some instances the communication can be a digest communication or a notification communication as described above. The communication can include reference sections . The reference sections may correspond to the different types of information provided by the sources . In an embodiment of the invention the number of reference sections presented in the communication may not be equal to the number of sources . For example if the communication is a message communication the communication may only include one reference section an announcement that the user has received feedback for example as shown in D and or E. However a message communication can include additional reference sections or any number of reference sections as well. In another example if the communication is a digest communication communication may include many reference sections corresponding to different types of activity or information. Digest communication can contain only a single reference section or any number of reference sections if desired. In an embodiment of the invention if the extent of references for a particular one of the reference sections does not reach a threshold the particular reference section may be omitted from the communication .

The communication may include some references associated with activities that have occurred or nodes that are present in the social network of the user. The digest communications may not include a complete description of the activities but rather may include only a partial description. The digest communications may omit some description about the activities to encourage the user to engage with the social networking system and to access the entirety of the descriptions for the referenced activities. In an embodiment of the invention the reference sections may present all or part of the information about activities that has been determined by the prioritization and reference generation to be most relevant to the user.

As some communications such as a digest communication may be periodically provided to the user the provision of notifications by the social networking system to the user may be stopped in certain circumstances. When the level of engagement of the user with the social networking system within a prior predetermined interval of time is greater than or equal to a threshold value notifications to the user are reduced or ceased to encourage the user to increase her level of engagement with the social networking system . In an embodiment the threshold value may be specific to the user and based on the unique attributes of the user s activities. When the level of engagement of the user with the social networking system within the prior predetermined interval of time is less than a threshold value notifications are provided to the user to encourage the user to increase her level of engagement with the social networking system . In an embodiment of the invention the threshold value may be determined by empirical data. Other techniques to determine the threshold value are possible and other suitable threshold values are possible.

For example the email engine or the social networking system may define a variable L28 which represents the number of times that a user has visited the social networking system in the last 28 days. Further the threshold value may be 15. Thus if L28 is less than 15 for a user then the social networking system may provide notifications for the user when such provision is consistent with the policies of the social networking system and the selection of the user. However if L28 is greater than or equal to 15 then the social networking system automatically may cease the provision of notifications for the user.

Similarly the provision of notifications can also be stopped in other circumstances. For example notifications may be sent to a new user or a user with few friend connections for every action taken by the user s friends. However once the user is no longer considered a new user or once the user gains a number of friends greater than a threshold value the social networking system may cease to send notifications for every action taken by the user s friends. Rather in an embodiment the social networking system may send notifications only for actions taken by the user s top friends. Alternatively once the user is no longer considered a low engagement user the social networking system can cease to send any notifications to the user. While the user is a new user or has few friends receiving notifications for friend activity may encourage the user to increase engagement with the social networking system . Once the user is no longer a new user or as the user gains more friends reducing the amount of notifications or stopping notifications sent to the user may increase the user s engagement with the social networking system .

If the provision of notifications to the user is reduced or stopped the notifications may later increase or resume. As time proceeds the low engagement module may continually monitor the predetermined prior interval of time to compare the level of engagement of the user with the social networking system against the threshold value. For example if the level of engagement of the user with the social networking system is greater than the threshold value during a first interval of time notifications for the user may be turned off. During a second interval of time subsequent to the first interval of time the level of engagement may decrease. If the decreased level of engagement falls below the threshold value then the low engagement module may resume provision of notifications for the user. In a similar manner for later time intervals the low engagement module may cease and resume the provision of notifications based on comparison of the levels of engagement during the time intervals against a threshold value.

The level of engagement of a user with the social networking system may be based on one or many factors. In an embodiment of the invention the level of engagement may be based on the number of visits to the social networking system . In another embodiment the level of engagement of a user may be based on additional or alternative factors related to participation by the user in the social networking system such as the number of logins by the user degree of interaction with other users and the types of interaction with other users of the social networking system . The prior predetermined interval of time may be a predetermined number of prior days weeks months years or any other time durations.

If the social networking system decides to automatically cease provision of notifications or if the user selects to cease provision of notifications all possible notifications may cease. In an embodiment of the invention despite a decision to stop notifications the provision of some notifications nonetheless may be deemed mandatory based on their deemed importance to the guidelines of the social networking system or other considerations. Such notifications may continue to be provided for the user upon occurrence of related activities. For example if a user is identified in photo posted by another i.e. tagged a notification may be sent to the user even if the social networking system or the user has otherwise decided to stop notifications for the user. As another example if the location of a user is posted by another a corresponding notification may be sent to the user even if other notifications have ceased. Other types of notifications also may not be turned off. When notifications are turned off by the social networking system the user may be so informed. show messages provided by the social networking system for the user regarding the management of notifications. shows an example message to inform a user that the provision of notifications to her has ceased. The message includes a link to allow the user to choose to turn back on notifications such as email. When the link is selected an opt out page may be presented to the user. shows an example opt out page . The opt out page requests confirmation from the user that notifications should resume. The opt out page includes a button to allow the user to confirm resumption of notifications and a button to cancel resumption of notifications.

In an embodiment of the invention the process the process and the process may be entirely or partially performed by the low engagement module . In an embodiment of the invention the process and the process may be performed at least in part by the social networking system .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the computing devices identified above. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache memory and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments another embodiment or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment in an embodiment or in another embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

