---

title: Millimeter scale three-dimensional antenna structures and methods for fabricating same
abstract: Millimeter scale three dimensional antenna structures and methods for fabricating such structures are disclosed. According to one method, a first substantially planar die having a first antenna structure is placed on a first surface. A second substantially planar die having at least one conductive element is placed on a second surface that forms an oblique angle with the first surface. The first and second dies are mechanically coupled to each other such that the first die and the first antenna structure extend at the oblique angle to the second die.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09252501&OS=09252501&RS=09252501
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 09252501
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120528
---
This invention was made with government funds under Contract No. HR0011 10 3 0002 awarded by DARPA. The U.S. government has rights in this invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to antenna structures. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to methods for fabricating millimeter scale 3D antenna structures and structures made using such methods.

In applications such as biological sensor implants and mobile communications devices it is desirable to have antennas that work equally well in all directions regardless of the orientation of the antenna. For some applications millimeter scale antenna structures suitable for use at frequencies of 2.4 GHz 5 GHz and 60 GHz are desirable. Planar antennas of millimeter scale can be formed on a substrate. However to achieve orientation independent omnidirectionality three dimensional antenna structures are desirable. Another reason that three dimensional antenna structures are desirable is to reduce the effects of interference from integrated circuits located on a substrate near an antenna structure.

One possible method of fabricating millimeter scale three dimensional antennas is to form the antennas on a flexible planar substrate and then bend the substrate to form a three dimensional antenna structure. One problem with this approach is that flexible substrates have a minimum bending radius of much larger than one millimeter and can thus not easily be used to form three dimensional antenna structures.

Accordingly there exists a need for methods for forming millimeter scale three dimensional antenna structures and antenna structures formed using such methods.

Millimeter scale three dimensional antenna structures and methods for fabricating such structures are disclosed. According to one method a first substantially planar die having a first antenna structure is placed on a first surface. A second substantially planar die having at least one conductive element is placed on a second surface that forms an oblique angle with the first surface. The first and second dies are mechanically coupled to each other such that the first die and the first antenna structure extend at the oblique angle to the second die.

According to another aspect of the subject matter described herein a three dimensional antenna structure is provided. The three dimensional antenna structure includes a substantially planar rigid base die of millimeter dimensions and having at least one conductive element located on a surface of the rigid base die. At least one substantially planar antenna die having antennas located on a surface thereof is mechanically coupled to the base die at an oblique angle. The antenna die is of millimeter dimensions.

Millimeter scale three dimensional antenna structures and methods for fabricating such structures are disclosed. Millimeter scale antenna structures and associated conductors may be fabricated on a substrate. illustrates an example of a Pyrex Pyrex glass substrate with a plurality of millimeter scale antenna and other conductive structures patterned thereon. In particular substrate illustrated in includes four quadrants which are patterned with different sized antenna and other conductive structures. The upper left quadrant is patterned with loop antenna structures formed on 3 mm 3 mm dies. The upper right quadrant is patterned with pairs of conductors formed on 3 mm 3 mm dies. The lower left quadrant is patterned with loop antenna structures formed on 5 mm 5 mm dies. The lower right quadrant is patterned with conductors formed on 5 mm 5 mm dies. As an example in the lower right quadrant die is referred to herein as a base die and it includes pairs of conductors located on opposite edges. Die is an antenna die on which is formed a loop antenna. The conductors and the loop antenna structures may be deposited on substrate using any suitable deposition technique for depositing metal on a substrate. It should also be noted that one or both sides of substrate may be patterned with antennas and other conductive structures.

After depositing the metal structures on substrate illustrated in the individual dies may be cut or chemically etched from the substrate. illustrates an example of base die after being cut or etched from substrate . Referring to base die includes a plurality of conductors located on a surface at opposite edges of surface . Base die may also include alignment marks to facilitate alignment with other dies in forming 3D antenna structures. In one implementation base die may be a substantially planar structure with a lateral edge length ranging from 3 mm to 5 mm. Larger or smaller base dies may be formed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. For example it is believed that the techniques described herein can be used to form base dies with edge lengths of 1 mm.

An integrated circuit such as a sensor may be attached to base die . illustrates an example of base die within an integrated circuit mounted thereon. In integrated circuit may be attached to base die using an adhesive or any other suitable attachment method. Integrated circuit may be connected to one or more of conductors using wires or traces not shown in .

Three dimensional antenna structures may be formed by mechanically coupling one or more antenna dies to base die such that antenna structure extends at an oblique angle to base die . illustrates one example of such a coupling. In antenna die is mechanically coupled to base die through solder joints . To form solder joints dies and may each be placed on surfaces that form an oblique angle to each other. Dies and may be aligned with each other such that the conductors of antenna on the edge of die align with any pair of conductors on a given edge of base die . Because antenna structure is offset from the center of antenna die by an amount equal to the thickness of antenna die sufficient room exists along edge to allow another antenna die to rest on die . After aligning dies and with each other solder paste may then be applied to the intersection of pads and antenna . Heat may be applied to reflow the solder the solder may then be cooled and solder joints may be formed to provide both mechanical and electrical coupling between antenna and pads .

In the example illustrated in dies and are held in place using clamps. In an alternate implementation dies and may be held in place using a vacuum. illustrate an example of a jig that can be used to form 3D antenna structures where dies and are held in place using a vacuum. Referring to jig includes counter sunk screw holes for holding jig to a surface. Jig further includes valleys and each having surfaces that join at an oblique angle. Valleys and may be made for different size 3D antenna structures. Each valley and may include one or more vacuum ports not shown in positioned under dies and to apply vacuum to dies and and urge dies and against surfaces . Jig may also include a coupling for coupling jig to a thermocouple.

Thus in order to form the three dimensional antenna structures dies and may be placed on surfaces while a vacuum is being applied to dies and . Solder paste may be applied to the junction between dies and . Jig may then be placed in a solder oven to reflow the solder paste. Once the solder reflows and cools base die may be rotated by an angle of 90 degrees another antenna die may be added and the process may be repeated.

In the embodiments described above base dies are joined to antenna dies using solder joints. In an alternate example mechanical interlocks may be used to join base die to antenna dies . illustrate such an example. In each base die A includes mechanical interlocks located on the edges. Antenna die A also includes mechanical interlocks located on its edges. The mechanical interlocks may include laterally extending fingers or protrusions that interlock with corresponding fingers or protrusions extending laterally from the edge of another die. As illustrated in mechanical interlocks joined with mechanical interlocks to perform a mechanical connection between base die A and antenna die A. Interlocks may be formed by chemically etching such structures when separating dies and from substrate . Multiple antenna dies A may be joined to a single base die as illustrated in . Solder joints between conductive structures may also be used to further enhance the mechanical and electrical connections.

Alternatively solder joints may be omitted and both electrical and mechanical connections can be made using interlocks . The solder joints and mechanically interlocking connections can be made by placing the dies into jigs such as those illustrated in A and B. In an alternate implementation the interlocks and the solder joints can be formed without using jigs.

In base die C includes interior holes that join with corresponding interlocking structures on antenna dies A. In base die D includes holes in its center and at its edges. An antenna die A may interlock with any of the holes to form a three dimensional tee antenna structure as illustrated in . In antenna die A includes conductors that form a cross pattern for connecting with dipole antennas formed on antenna die A and base die A. illustrates an example of base die A with antenna pattern .

In addition the subject matter described herein is not limited to forming cubic antenna structures. The techniques described herein can be used to construct a single antenna orthogonally mounted with respect to its base parallelepiped antennas uniform prisms pyramids etc. Using interlocking fingers as illustrated in different structures are possible.

In the examples described above the substrate is Pyrex glass. In alternate examples the substrate can be non Pyrex glass silicon quartz or any other material on which a conductive material can be formed.

The material that fills the interior region of antenna structures and can be any suitable material to provide mechanical rigidity. Such material is preferably non conductive. An example of a material that may be used is a non conductive epoxy or adhesive.

In addition to the applications described above other applications for the subject matter described herein include antenna in package solutions three dimensional antennas three dimensional antenna arrays mobile communications 60 GHz applications and near field energy harvesting.

In addition although the terms antenna die and base die are used above it is understood that an antenna die and a base die may be identical and either or both may include an antenna structure without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

