---

title: Personal call center
abstract: A method of facilitating telephone calls for a mobile communication device associated with a user of a personal call center. A list of contact numbers are received, each contact number corresponding to a call to be made for the mobile communication device on behalf of the user of the call center. Based on a schedule associated with the user of the call center, it is determined whether the user is available for calls to be made. If the user is available for calls to be made, a call to a recipient from the list of contact numbers is initiated and the call is connected to the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08588754&OS=08588754&RS=08588754
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08588754
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120820
---
The present application is a Continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 388 634 filed on Feb. 19 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to the field of mobile communications specifically providing personal call centers for mobile communication devices

Smartphones have become the centerpiece of the digital lifestyle for mobile professionals. So ubiquitous is their use that they enable mobile professionals to operate in their professional capacity at nearly any time or place. There are times however when necessary information such as whom to call and when might not be easy to reference when e.g. professionals are working remotely.

In one aspect the present application provides a personal call center system. The system comprises a first server for facilitating telephone calls to at least one user each user being associated with a mobile communication device the server being programmed to perform the steps of receiving a list of contact numbers each contact number corresponding to a call to be made determining based on a schedule of the at least one associated user whether the at least one user is available for calls to be made initiating if the at least one user is determined to be available a call to one of the contact numbers and connecting the call to the mobile communication device associated with the user.

Another embodiment includes a personal call center that includes a second server which determines a real time status of the device assigned to the user before the first server initiates calls to that device. In an optional step the call center can wait a predetermined time if the device status is unavailable. This step can be repeated until the device is available.

In another aspect the present application provides a method of facilitating telephone calls to a mobile communication device associated with a user. The method comprises receiving a list of contact numbers each contact number corresponding to a call to be made to the device determining based on a schedule associated with the user whether the user is available for calls to be made retrieving a real time status of the mobile communication device initiating a call to a contact number on the list and connecting the call to the mobile communication device and on completion of said call.

Another embodiment in which telephone calls to a mobile communication device associated with a user are facilitated includes a step of waiting for a recipient of each call to answer before connecting the call to the device. An optional step includes notifying the mobile communication device once all telephone calls have been completed.

In yet another aspect the present application provides a method of facilitating a series of telephone calls to a group of mobile communication devices each associated with a respective user. The method comprises receiving a list of contact numbers each contact number corresponding to a call to be made to the group of devices determining based on a schedule associated with each user whether the users are available retrieving a real time status of each mobile communication device initiating calls to one of the contact numbers for each of the mobile communication devices associated with the users determined to be available and connecting the calls to one of the available mobile communication devices. Another embodiment includes a step of detecting if a recipient of an initiated call is unavailable and to leave a pre recorded voicemail for the recipient.

A further embodiment provides a system for facilitating a series of telephone calls to a group of associated telephony devices. The system comprises at least a first server for facilitating the telephone calls the server being programmed to perform the steps of receiving data corresponding to identification information for the group of associated telephony devices receiving a list of recipients to be called determining based on at least a schedule of a user associated with each of the telephony devices whether the user is available for calls to be made initiating if the at least one user is determined to be available a call to one of the contact numbers and connecting the call to the telephony device associated with the user. In an optional step the first server is operable to query each telephony device to determine a real time status of the device and determine whether it is currently in use.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings. Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch exchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application.

For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . The conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

The disclosed system the call center server can schedule calls for a user make the call at the scheduled time and connect the user when the other party answers thus making the calls completely hands free and transparent for the user. The call center server is adapted to run in application layer on SMP however it is understood that the call center server could be implemented to run on a separate system apart from SMP or be implemented by combining the function of several connected components. In essence the disclosed system can make an outbound call look and act like an inbound call. Advantageously the system can also be used by a manager or a centralized call center to for example schedule calls for a given user or group of users. This way managers or call centers can schedule calls for example between salespersons and customers and have the calls go through without any action from the salesperson.

Referring now to a system including various operational components representing a subset or simplified version of an enterprise network such as that shown in is now described. The system is capable of executing the processes described herein in relation to . Enterprise network is preferably an internal network but can also include a connection to the Internet or WAN as depicted in . A call center application manages call processes as discussed herein as depicted in and and runs as a component of the call center server in application layer on SMP although call center server can be implemented as a separate system. Data from a customer relationship management CRM Server can be imported to call center server to populate the contact lists described below . A web interface to call center server can also be implemented either as part of the same call center application mentioned above or as a separate component to provide data to populate the contact lists. The call center application can optionally provide reports historical and real time to users or management entities for specific users or groups to report status including success failure time connected retry count and the like using the web interface of call center application . A corporate calendaring system is provided as an example source for determining availability of users. As also shown in present on enterprise network is a PBX for connecting telephone calls to an example user device over the device s voice connection using for example PLMN as shown in . PBX can optionally be voice over IP enabled i.e. an IP PBX . Enterprise Server is also present and enables call center server to determine the real time status of user device using the device s data connection .

Embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods and systems for implementing and operating personal call centers for system users call center users wherein calls can be made to a list of contacts or contact numbers with little or no interaction with the call center user. The call center server is adapted to initiate these calls to the contacts on the list and then connect the call to a call center user when the contact has answered the call. Example processes A B and C are now described with reference to .

With reference to in a first embodiment call center server initiates and places a single call to a call center user in process A. At step an initial step of compiling a list of contacts and or contact numbers a contact list can be compiled by a user or by a user s manager. Alternately or in combination the compiling step may be done by a customer relationship management CRM entity e.g. CRM server adapted to compile such lists at step . At step the contact list is uploaded to the call center server . The uploading can be done on an individual or group basis via any one or a combination of various mechanisms. These methods include a web enabled user interface that would import contact information from a third party contact management system where the user manager would use the user interface to create the contact list a Web Services API where a contact list could be exported directly from a third party application and imported to the call center server or by a comma separated file or a spreadsheet. The customer relationship management CRM entity can build a contact list from any number of sources including a call center user s contact management system such as Microsoft Office Outlook IBM Lotus Notes ACT Microsoft Dynamics CRM Oracle CRM or any other such system. The contact list can be accompanied by a schedule that can specify the times at which the calls to contacts are to be made in sequential order when the call center server should begin or end calling contacts and or specific times for calling specific contacts on the list. The contact list and optional schedule are loaded onto the call center server at step which enables the call center server to process the calls.

Next at step the call center server is adapted to consult a corporate calendaring system e.g. the corporate calendaring system depicted in to determine a call center user s availability over the time period necessary to complete the call. The corporate calendaring system can be one of Microsoft Exchange Server or the like. If the call center user is unavailable during the time period in question execution of the call routine can be held for a predetermined period or presented to an administrator of the call center server as requiring an adjustment to compensate for the unavailability. If the call center user is available the call center server proceeds step where it monitors the real time status of a mobile communication device e.g. a BlackBerry Palm Treo or Apple iPhone assigned to the call center user to determine whether the call center user was receiving or initiating a call or other event that would prevent the user from taking the new scheduled call. This monitoring can be done using by any known mechanism such as a connection to the service provider of the device or through Enterprise Server depicted in .

If the call center user s device is determined to be available the call center server will proceed to step and initiate the call. The call center server can then immediately proceed to step and connect the call to the device

In a second embodiment depicted in as process B call center server operates to initiate and connect a series of calls to a call center user. Process B proceeds as described above but after completion of each call step of determining the real time status of the user s device is repeated. In this manner call center server can continuously monitor the status of the device before initiating and connecting the next of the series of calls. In an alternative embodiment step is not repeated and call center server proceeds to step .

In a third embodiment depicted in as process C call center server is configured to perform various other functions as it facilitates the series of calls to the user. First if at step it is determined if a call center user s device is in use the call center server can wait a predetermined time step before repeating the step of retrieving the real time status of the device step . In this manner the call center server is adapted to wait until the call center user is available before initiating the next call on the contact list. Further after a call is initiated at step call center server can wait at step for the recipient to answer the call before transferring it to the user device. If the recipient does not answer and the call is forwarded to voicemail or the call is unsuccessful the call can be rescheduled within the contact list and a number of retry attempts can be recorded. If the call reaches voicemail the call center server will leave a personalized automated message that the call center user has recorded step . As the number of retry attempts can be monitored the call center server can be programmed not to leave more than a single message even if the recipient did not answer on multiple occasions alternatively the call center server can leave a different personalized message depending on the number or retry attempts. In process C before connecting the call to the user device step the call center server forwards step details of the call to the user device. At step an outbound call is placed to the device. If the call is answered by the device call center server will connect the calls e.g. by bridging . If the call center user does not answer the connected call at step the call center server will play the recipient a pre recorded message or attempt to reach the call center user on another device or at a different contact number such as the user s desk phone . The call center server may also optionally contact the call center user on multiple numbers or devices simultaneously such as by the methods described in U.S. PGPub No. 2008 0205616 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In another embodiment the device is operable to be directly connected to the call i.e. by operation of a data connection . In such a manner calls can be connected to the device without user interaction. The notification can be a text message e mail or other form of communication.

Once the call is completed e.g. at step call center server proceeds back to step to initiate another call. Although not depicted in call center server can also optionally perform the step of calendar checking again before initiating that next call. In an alternative embodiment neither of steps or are repeated and call center server proceeds to step . Once the last call is completed the call center server will at step send the call center user a completion notification to indicate that all calls on the list have been made and completed. The notification can optionally identify which if any calls were unsuccessful and display the number of retry attempts.

In a fourth embodiment the call center server can be configured to make calls to a compiled list of contacts or contact numbers by any of the means discussed above with respect to steps and and loaded in step and connect those calls to a group of users and their associated user devices . Call distribution to a group of users can be advantageous e.g. in a sales environment where calls can be made to potential contacts irrespective of which user is ultimately connected with the call. This process is shown in . As shown in at step a compiled contact list is loaded into the call center server . Next at step the call center users in the calling group can be identified by any of the same means used to identify contacts or contact numbers described above e.g. web enabled UI API or CRM system . At step the call center server checks the calendars of each user in the calling group and determines whether those users are potentially available to take calls from the contact list. The call center server then operates to concurrently initiate and connect calls to available users proceeding sequentially through the contact list. Accordingly for each of the potentially available users at steps the call center server performs steps described above with respect to for initiating and completing calls between recipients and available call center users in the group. Once all calls are complete at step an issue notification can be sent to each or all of the active call center users devices and or the management entity. The above process as depicted in however is not meant to be limiting. Separate contact lists can be loaded for each of the call center users or specific entries on the contact list can be specially designated so that call center server connects those entries to a specific call center user.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

