---

title: Integrated context-driven information search and interaction
abstract: A method and a device are disclosed including an integrated connection between a Social Business Network (SBN) and a webpage configured to provide context-based relevant information about content and/or metadata associated with the webpage. A SBN provides business-oriented information in a social networking environment. In some embodiments, SBN connection automatically provides information about the webpage's owner, or is used used or to start a conversation with another user. In still other embodiments, the SBN connection may retrieve information from external sources such as Facebook®, web, and databases associated with the SBN, including prior relevant conversations, project information, participant information, articles, historical data, and the like. In various embodiments, the SBN connection is in the form of a browser plugin component, which may be enhanced by custom software cartridges developed by customers of SBN to dynamically alter the behavior or add functionality to the SBN plugin component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424364&OS=09424364&RS=09424364
owner: 
number: 09424364
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120214
---
This application relates generally to integrated information environments. More specifically this application relates to retrieval of context based relevant information based on a social business networking data source by associating content discussions and social interactions with specific web pages and web applications.

While the present disclosure is described with reference to several illustrative embodiments described herein it should be clear that the present disclosure should not be limited to such embodiments. Therefore the description of the embodiments provided herein is illustrative of the present disclosure and should not limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed. In addition while following description references particular environments such as an enterprise it will be appreciated that the disclosure may be used in other environments such as wide area networks the internet in general and the like.

Briefly described a device and a method are disclosed including an integrated connection between a Social Business Network SBN and a web page the connection configured to provide context based relevant information about the content and or meta data associated with the web page to the user of the web page from data sources associated with and or usable by the SBN. A social business network generally provides business oriented information and content to users in a social networking environment. In some embodiments SBN connection may be used to automatically provide information about the web page s owner while in other embodiments the SBN connection may be used to start a conversation with another user of the SBN from within the web page on a subject matter appearing in the web page or other subject matters. In still other embodiments the SBN connection may be used to automatically and or manually retrieve information from external or third party data sources such as other social networking sites like Facebook web and databases associated with the SBN. Such information may include prior conversations related to a subject matter appearing on the web page project information participant information articles historical data and the like. In various embodiments the SBN connection is in the form of a browser plugin component which may be enhanced by custom software cartridges developed by customers of SBN to dynamically alter the behavior or add functionality to the SBN plugin component.

With the ubiquity of computing devices such as laptop computers computing pads and tablets and powerful smartphones among others and widely available high speed computer networks access to information is easier than ever. However the hidden cost of this ease of access to information is the abundance of irrelevant information and the difficulty of finding useful information. Additionally when people discuss a subject their collaboration process and interaction often may be disconnected from the major sources of information about the topic discussed. For example when two people discuss an article from a news source such as CNN Cable News Network they may do so using particular software applications such as e mail SBN and the like but when they actually access the CNN web page their discussion and collaborative experience is not present on the CNN web page.

File data and application software may be stored on servers such as Microsoft s SharePoint server and be made accessible to multiple users. However as the amount of data files and directories quickly multiply over time especially in an enterprise environment finding useful and relevant information may become a time consuming challenge. Therefore providing accurate context based information which is relevant to what the user is currently viewing or working on can be highly valuable. Also enabling people to add content and or collaborate in the context of a web page or web application they are viewing may be critical in some situations.

One embodiment of a computing device usable as one of client computing devices is described in more detail below with respect to . Briefly however client computing devices may include virtually any device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as wireless network or the like. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices music players digital cameras infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or the like. Client device may include virtually any computing device that typically connects using a wired communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. In one embodiment one or more of client devices may also be configured to operate over a wired and or a wireless network.

Client devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphic may be displayed.

A web enabled client device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphic text multimedia or the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP or the like. In one embodiment the browser application may be enabled to employ one or more of Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML or the like to display and send information.

Client computing devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device including without limit server computing devices . The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content multimedia information or the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name or the like. In one embodiment client devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN mobile device identifier network address such as IP Internet Protocol address Media Access Control MAC layer identifier or other identifier. The identifier may be provided in a message or the like sent to another computing device.

Client computing devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through email Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber or the like to another computing device. However the present disclosure is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Client devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables the user to log into a user account that may be managed by another computing device. Such user account for example may be configured to enable the user to receive emails send receive IM messages SMS messages access selected web pages download scripts applications or a variety of other content or perform a variety of other actions over a network. However managing of messages or otherwise accessing and or downloading content may also be performed without logging into the user account. Thus a user of client devices may employ any of a variety of client applications to access content read web pages receive send messages or the like. In one embodiment for example the user may employ a browser or other client application to access a web page hosted by a Web server implemented as server computing device . In one embodiment messages received by client computing devices may be saved in non volatile memory such as flash and or PCM across communication sessions and or between power cycles of client computing devices .

Wireless network may be configured to couple client devices to network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for client devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G 4th 4G and any future generation radio access technologoies for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobil communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE WEDGE Bluetooth High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wi Fi Zigbee Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client devices and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple one or more servers depicted in as server computing devices and their respective components with other computing devices such as client device and through wireless network to client devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network may include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another.

Communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. Network may include any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices. Additionally communication media typically may enable transmission of computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other types of content virtually without limit. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With continued reference to computing device includes optical storage Central Processing Unit CPU memory module display interface audio interface input devices Input Output I O processor bus non volatile memory various other interfaces Network Interface Card NIC hard disk power supply transceiver antenna haptic interface and Global Positioning System GPS unit . Memory module may include software such as Operating System OS and a variety of software application programs . Computing device may also include other components not shown in . For example computing device may further include an illuminator for example a light graphic interface and portable storage media such as USB drives. Computing device may also include other processing units such as a math co processor graphics processor accelerator and a Digital Signal Processor DSP .

Optical storage device may include optical drives for using optical media such as CD Compact Disc DVD Digital Video Disc and the like. Optical storage devices may provide inexpensive ways for storing information for archival and or distribution purposes.

Central Processing Unit CPU may be the main processor for software program execution in computing device . CPU may represent one or more processing units that obtain software instructions from memory module and execute such instructions to carry out computations and or transfer data between various sources and destinations of data such as hard disk I O processor display interface input devices non volatile memory and the like.

Memory module may include RAM Random Access Memory ROM Read Only Memory and other storage means mapped to one addressable memory space. Memory module illustrates one of many types of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory module may store a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of computing device . Memory module may also store OS for controlling the general operation of computing device . It will be appreciated that OS may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. OS may in turn include or interface with a Java virtual machine JVM module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory module may further include one or more distinct areas by address space and or other means which can be utilized by computing device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example one area of memory module may be set aside and employed to store information that describes various capabilities of computing device a device identifier and the like. Such identification information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. One common software application is a browser program that is generally used to send receive information to from a web server. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message. However any of a variety of other web based languages may also be employed. In one embodiment using the browser application a user may view an article or other content on a web page with one or more highlighted portions as target objects.

Display interface may be coupled with a display unit not shown such as liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display unit that may be used with computing device . Display units coupled with display interface may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand. Display interface may further include interface for other visual status indicators such Light Emitting Diodes LED light arrays and the like. Display interface may include both hardware and software components. For example display interface may include a graphic accelerator for rendering graphic intensive outputs on the display unit. In one embodiment display interface may include software and or firmware components that work in conjunction with CPU to render graphic output on the display unit.

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable communication with a human operator such as spoken commands and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action.

Input devices may include a variety of device types arranged to receive input from a user such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a touchpad a touch screen described with respect to display interface a multi touch screen a microphone for spoken command input describe with respect to audio interface and the like.

I O processor is generally employed to handle transactions and communications with peripheral devices such as mass storage network input devices display and the like which couple computing device with the external world. In small low power computing devices such as some mobile devices functions of the I O processor may be integrated with CPU to reduce hardware cost and complexity. In one embodiment I O processor may the primary software interface with all other device and or hardware interfaces such as optical storage hard disk interfaces display interface audio interface and input devices .

An electrical bus internal to computing device may be used to couple various other hardware components such as CPU memory module I O processor and the like to each other for transferring data instructions status and other similar information.

Non volatile memory may include memory built into computing device or portable storage medium such as USB drives that may include PCM arrays flash memory including NOR and NAND flash pluggable hard drive and the like. In one embodiment portable storage medium may behave similarly to a disk drive. In another embodiment portable storage medium may present an interface different than a disk drive for example a read only interface used for loading supplying data and or software.

Various other interfaces may include other electrical and or optical interfaces for connecting to various hardware peripheral devices and networks such as IEEE 1394 also known as FireWire Universal Serial Bus USB Small Computer Serial Interface SCSI parallel printer interface Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter USART Video Graphics Array VGA Super VGA SVGA and the like.

Network Interface Card NIC may include circuitry for coupling computing device to one or more networks and is generally constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to Global System for Mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP Bluetooth Wi Fi Zigbee UMTS HSDPA WCDMA WEDGE or any of a variety of other wired and or wireless communication protocols.

Hard disk is generally used as a mass storage device for computing device . In one embodiment hard disk may be a Ferro magnetic stack of one or more disks forming a disk drive embedded in or coupled to computing device . In another embodiment hard drive may be implemented as a solid state device configured to behave as a disk drive such as a flash based hard drive. In yet another embodiment hard drive may be a remote storage accessible over network interface or another interface but acting as a local hard drive. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other technologies and configurations may be used to present a hard drive interface and functionality to computing device without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.

Power supply provides power to computing device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Transceiver generally represents transmitter receiver circuits for wired and or wireless transmission and receipt of electronic data. Transceiver may be a stand alone module or be integrated with other modules such as NIC . Transceiver may be coupled with one or more antennas for wireless transmission of information.

Antenna is generally used for wireless transmission of information for example in conjunction with transceiver NIC and or GPS . Antenna may represent one or more different antennas that may be coupled with different devices and tuned to different carrier frequencies configured to communicate using corresponding protocols and or networks. Antenna may be of various types such as omni directional dipole slot helical and the like.

Haptic interface is configured to provide tactile feedback to a user of computing device . For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate computing device or an input device coupled to computing device such as a game controller in a particular way when an event occurs such as hitting an object with a car in a video game.

Global Positioning System GPS unit can determine the physical coordinates of computing device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS unit can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of computing device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS unit can determine a physical location within millimeters for computing device . In other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however a mobile device represented by computing device may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address.

In various embodiments a plug in component may appear as a button a toolbar a new menu or other common user interface components integrated with the web page. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the plug in component may be implemented as one or more modules each module providing different functionalities for the plug in component. Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that plug in or add in components are generally software components that run within another host program to add various capabilities such as playing video clip players encrypting content messaging and the like within the host application originally lacking such capabilities. Plug in components are useful at least because they may be deployed by third parties onto existing host applications after the release of such applications by their manufacturers. Plug ins are usually installed by users after installation of the host application. A host application may generally provide a service interface or API Application Programming Interface for use by plug in components to register themselves and exchange data with the host application. Plug ins may be implemented using DLLs Dynamic Link Library which are components that may be dynamically added to a running program and provide various callable functions and capabilities.

In various embodiments the plug in component generally provides capabilities which do not exist in the host program. For example image and text search functions may not be available in the host applications but are added by the plug in. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that plug ins are not limited to use in web pages and may be used in standalone applications such as document processing applications to add after release or post compilation functionality to the host software.

In some embodiments a user of the web page may install integrated SBN functionality in his browser to allow automatic or manually initiated automatic search for and presentation of relevant information about the content of the web page and or about the web page itself. In these embodiments the integrated SBN functionality is available only on the client computing device of the user. In other embodiments the SBN integrated functionality may be built in to the web server for example using a scripting language such as JavaScript and be available to all users of the web pages served by the web server.

In various embodiments activating SBN functionality for example by selecting SBN button an additional pane is opened by the integration software module in the same web page while in other embodiments a new SBN window may be opened which is related to the current web page. In other embodiments the user may select how he wants the SBN information to be presented by setting appropriate options on the browser and or plug in interface.

In operation in various embodiments the users opens a webpage to browse information on a particular web site. Depending on user settings and or integrated SBN configuration an integrated SBN interface is presented to the user. In some embodiments this integrated SBN interface may have the form of a pane within current webpage or may take the form of a separate window. In some embodiments the integrated SBN interface may take a form of a scrolling information ribbon in some area of the computer screen such as the bottom edge. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other user interfaces are possible without departing from the spirit of the present disclosures. Regardless of the SBN user interface the integrated SBN interface is related to and or aware of the current webpage via data and or metadata associated with the current webpage.

In some embodiments the user may select content of the current web page which may include text images links icons or other content and then click on SBN button to launch an automatic search for information by the integrated SBN from various sources such as SBN databases the Web social networking sites like Facebook and Linkedin and any other computer accessible sources of data available. In some embodiments activating SBN button may result in using other methods instead of or in addition to search to retrieve relevant information about current content such as fetching pre associated information for example by using an index to an existing database table without performing a search. In other embodiments hovering the cursor over content triggers search and fetch of relevant information by the integrated SBN for simultaneous display to the user.

In various embodiments the integrated SBN the relevant information includes saved conversations or discussions between the user and other users or between other users from the SBN databases and or platforms. For example selecting content on the current web page may trigger SBN to search and display a conversation supplemental content on a related subject in the supplemental information pane . Similarly SBN may search other social networking sites and the web to present articles in articles section and social networking content in social networking section .

The search results provided by the integrated SBN may include text and images. For example a search based on a selected content cat may return results that typically include textual data and some images of cats. In various embodiments the search function of the integrated SBN component searches the web for images using commercial search engines such as Google and Yahoo . Search engine API may be used to filter search results according to intellectual property rights such as copyright and trademark. As such the SBN search functionality makes it unnecessary for the user to perform a separate search to obtain supplemental information.

In various embodiments the user may go through a setup process to specify the type format and scope of searches to be performed. For example a user may specify the search to cover social network sites only SBN database only text only images only conversations only and the like or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the user may also select advanced search options in the setup process to view additional search parameters and settings to be used as criteria to further restrict the search. For example in the advanced search settings the user may include or exclude a date range a particular source image size image format and the like.

In some embodiments metadata may be used by the integrated SBN to search sort group categorize or otherwise organize search results for presentation to the user via pane . The metadata may be obtained from various sources such as the webpage source code third party databases associated with the web page owner and the like. Secondary metadata may also be obtained from a preliminary search on the search subject. For example if the search subject is a person a preliminary search may be performed to find information on the person and then use any metadata associated with the found information to further search other sources for additional information.

An organization such as a company may be associated with the SBN. For example the company may be a customer or subscriber of the SBN. In various embodiments the company webpage may have a custom integrated SBN component providing custom search and or information capabilities specific to the company. The integrated SBN interface for example supplemental information pane may include multiple custom search buttons or links and operable to find and present supplemental information tailored to the needs or specifications of the company. In some embodiments selecting one of the custom search links or focuses the search on the type of supplemental information indicated by the link. For example if link is selected for company related information then the supplemental information found and presented will be most relevant to the company as opposed to other content on the web page. The supplemental information about the company may be presented in the supplemental content section and include prior idea exchanges and conversations saved on SBN databases social networking posts regarding the company blogs and web news among others.

Similarly if link is selected for the particular webpage the supplemental information found and presented will be most relevant to the general subject or contents of the webpage. The general subject of the webpage may include a project or product by the owner for example a company of the webpage a technology employed by the owner in its products services offered by the owner and the like. The contents of the webpage may include particular news blogs about a related industry white papers founders biographical information and the like. The supplemental information about the webpage may be presented in the supplemental content section and include prior idea exchanges and conversations saved on SBN databases social networking posts regarding the company blogs and web news among others.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other types of custom links may be configured for the integrated SBN in a webpage or website without departing from the spirit of the present disclosures. For example a Competition custom search link may be used to search and present information from various external and or SBN sources related to the competitors of a company owner of the web page.

In some embodiments the URL in URL field may be used to search source code of webpage to find various metadata not explicitly visible on the webpage. For example the full company name Sales Force may be found embedded in a script tag within the source code. The full company name may then be used to search for and present information relevant to the company.

In various embodiments a user viewing webpage may be interested in exchanging views and ideas with another user about selected content . The user may start a written conversation with the other user without leaving the webpage or using another application program such as email or IM. In some embodiments the user may select the content click on SBN button and be presented with a dialog box from which the user may select the other user to request commencement of the conversation. Conversation may then take place in substantially real time on the same webpage providing full context of the conversation. In some embodiments once the other user is notified of the request a copy of the same webpage is opened for the other user to allow the conversation to take place in the same context for both users. A record of the conversation may be stored by the integrated SBN for future reference and use. Supplemental information may also be automatically presented to the users to enrich and further inform their conversation.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many other arrangements may be utilized to allow an in context integrated conversation as described above between users without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. For example a separate dialog window may be opened to carry out the written conversation while still displaying the same webpage and recording the conversation. In another embodiment an audio visual or multi media exchange may be arranged between the users hosted in the webpage or in a separate window while still integrated and having shared data with the SBN and or the webpage. In some embodiments a speech recognition module may convert the spoken conversation to written text for easy transmission and use in documents and or future searches.

Custom software cartridge is associated with an existing plugin component on a target webpage to modify the behavior of the plugin in particular ways according to the behaviors and rules embedded in the custom software cartridge. For example a cartridge may be defined to change the color or other attributes such as font of text associated with a particular area such as a side pane of the browser window in which the text is displayed. As such the custom software cartridge may be viewed as a dynamic behavior supplement or modifier to the existing plugin on the target webpage. That is the custom software cartridge may be provided by a party different from the developer of the plugin component and may be applied withdrawn or changed dynamically after the deployment and installation of the plugin component thus providing a mechanism for altering the behavior of the plugin component without having to redesign and redeploy the plugin component.

The supplemental behavior provided by the custom software cartridge is not limited to changes to text and may include any functionality which can be implemented by a client side script. In various embodiments such functionality may include communicating with a server side script downloading files presenting a user interface on the target webpage accessing a database acquiring user input playing multimedia files and the like.

In operation in various embodiments the user of SBN site uses cartridge creation webpage to define the behavior of custom software cartridge and specify the list of websites to which the cartridge is applied. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different user interfaces may be used for defining the behavior of custom software cartridge . For example a scripting language may be entered by user to fully define how the cartridge will behave once associated with a plugin component on a target webpage. In other embodiments the user may select one of multiple predefined cartridges to add certain desired behavior to the plugin. While in other various embodiments the user may be presented with an interface which helps the user define the cartridge behavior requirements and or logic he wants in a simplified manner and a backend script translates the user s requirements and logic into a working script embedded in the cartridge.

In still other various embodiments the custom software cartridge may dynamically download and or associate other custom cartridges to perform other predefined functions when associated with the plugin component. For example the user may associate a first custom software cartridge with a plugin component to perform play find and play a video on a selected keyword. The first custom software cartridge may then employ the services of two other custom software cartridges one to search for the keyword and find a related video and another one to download an browser hosted media player to play the video while the first custom software manages the overall high level process.

Once the custom software cartridge has been defined and the list of target web sites or web pages to which the cartridge will be applied has been specified the same or a different user may use a local machine a client device to visit one of the target websites webpages. In various embodiments the existing SBN plugin component for example SBN button of may capture the domain name of the hosting website and communicate the name with the SBN website to determine whether a custom cartridge is available for the target webpage. In various embodiments the applicable custom software cartridges for a particular target website are determined based on a combination of an ID of the plugin component and the domain name of the target website. This way the same target website may be visited by two different users each user having a different plugin component on his local machine and provide a different experiences for each of the two users due to the use of different cartridges. This arrangement may be advantageous because it allows two different subscribers for example two different companies to the SBN organization to define different custom cartridges for the same target website thus providing a different custom experience for their respective users when visiting the same target website.

In some embodiments a standard directory URL or similar location specification is used to store the custom software cartridges. The standard storage location for the custom software cartridges is searched to find any cartridges applicable to a particular website in response to a plugin component inquiry from the particular website. If such cartridge is found the rules or behaviors defined thereby are applied for example by downloading a client side script segment to the user s local client machine to be applied to the target website on the local machine. Therefore the user s experience in visiting a target website is customized only on the user s local machine. Other users visiting the same target website may have a different experience depending on the plugin component and the cartridges applied to their local machines.

In various embodiments a user associated with an organization which created custom software cartridge visiting the target website at URL may use particular functions provided by the custom cartridge to enhance his experience perform tasks and or access information not readily available on the target website. For example a user who works at a shoe manufacturing company may use a public search website such as Google to find out what their competitors are doing. A custom software cartridge may be designed by the shoe manufacturing company to highlight their main competitors names for example by making text bold or appear in all capitals in the search results or in the sponsored links area. This way the user can easily spot links related to their competitors. Other software cartridges may be designed to offer different functions at different times for the same website allowing dynamic selection of various behaviors by users without altering the plugin components or the target websites.

Using custom software cartridges allows some control of the plugin components behaviors by third parties distinct from the developers of the plugin components providing more customization opportunities for subscribers or customers of SBN services.

Changes can be made to the claimed invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the claimed invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the claimed invention disclosed herein.

Particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the claimed invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the claimed invention encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the claimed invention.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the claimed invention. Since many embodiments of the claimed invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended. It is further understood that this disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but is intended to cover various arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent arrangements.

