---

title: Sponsored data plan management
abstract: A method for managing a Sponsored Data Plan (SDP) is provided in a mobile telecommunications network. The method includes: receiving a first request for an initial charging policy report in response to a detection of a user's data session with an Application Server (AS) () of a content provider; sending, in response to the first request, the requested initial charging policy report toward a Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) () such that the PCRF () selects a first Policy Charging Control Rule (PCC-Rule) in accordance with the report for enforcement at a Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF); receiving a second request to perform an online subscription of the user to the SDP; and sending, in response to the second request, information about the SDP toward the PCRF () such that the PCRF () selects a second PCC-Rule in accordance with the information for enforcement at the PCEF.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09014663&OS=09014663&RS=09014663
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09014663
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20120928
---
The present inventive subject matter relates generally to the art of mobile and or wireless telecommunications. Particular but not exclusive relevance is found in connection with 3G 3Generation and LTE Long Term Evolution wireless networks and accordingly the present specification makes specific reference thereto. It is to be appreciated however that aspects of the present inventive subject matter are also equally amenable to other like applications and or network environments.

Using 3G and LTE wireless networks there are new business models emerging involving mobile network operators MNOs or wireless service providers subscribers or end users and 3party content providers. In some business models a 3party content provider may be willing under certain circumstances to offer a sponsored data plan to an end user subscribing to mobile or wireless data services provided by a specific network operator.

For example an end user may subscribe to mobile data services provided by an MNO or other wireless service provider e.g. such as Verizon or AT T. Commonly the end user may purchase a data plan e.g. for a set fee or otherwise from the MNO or wireless service provider. In accordance with the user s data plan the user is allotted a given amount of data e.g. so many megabytes MB which they can have transported over a mobile telecommunications network of the operator or service provider within a given billing cycle e.g. for download to their mobile telephone or other wireless device generally referred to herein as user equipment UE .

At times the user may employ their UE to access e.g. to download or stream content from an application server of a 3party content provider. Optionally the content provider may charge a fee for such access. In any event the content is generally transported from the content provider s application server to the user s UE over the mobile wireless network provided and or operated by the MNO or wireless service provider. Usually in this case the amount of data transported over the network is deducted from and or charged against the user s data plan allotment. However under certain circumstances the content provider and or optionally the MNO may sponsor the data session used to deliver the content over the network i.e. the content provider and or optionally the MNO may offer and or provide a sponsored data plan such that by the end user subscribing to the sponsored data plan all or some portion of the transported data is not deducted from and or charged against the user s data plan allotment but rather it may be deducted from and or charged against the sponsored data plan.

Such arrangements present certain challenges. For example it remains a challenge for content providers to determine the network operator to which a subscriber belongs. There is a further challenge to inform the network operator s online charging system about an end user s subscription to a sponsored data plan offered by the content provider and accepted by the end user and or about the details of sponsored data plan e.g. such as the sponsored services sponsored time band sponsored quality of service type of sponsorship etc. A further challenge can be presented for the network operator to detect a sponsored service among multiple data sessions initiated by a user across the operator s network so as to be able to apply the sponsored data plan to such a detected service. Still another challenge may be for network operators to detect a user s access to a content provider s application server so as to potentially be able to offer their own promotional data plan enabling access to the same service but with the network operator s sponsored data plan subscription e.g. involving a promotional or preferential tariff quality of service etc. Yet another challenge is maintaining a user s privacy and or network neutrality.

Accordingly a new and or improved system and or method is disclosed which addresses the above referenced challenge s and or others.

This summary is provided to introduce concepts related to the present inventive subject matter. This summary is not intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use in determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In accordance with one embodiment a method for managing a Sponsored Data Plan SDP is provided in a mobile telecommunications network. The method includes receiving a first request for an initial charging policy report in response to a detection of a user s data session with an Application Server AS of a content provider sending in response to the first request the requested initial charging policy report toward a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF such that the PCRF selects a first Policy Charging Control Rule PCC Rule in accordance with the report for enforcement at a Policy and Charging Enforcement Function PCEF receiving a second request to perform an online subscription of the user to the SDP and sending in response to the second request information about the SDP toward the PCRF such that the PCRF selects a second PCC Rule in accordance with the information for enforcement at the PCEF.

In accordance with other embodiments an apparatus is provided that executes the foregoing method and or a non transitory machine readable medium is provided including a computer program which when executed performs the foregoing method.

In accordance with another embodiment an online charging system OCS is provided for use in a mobile telecommunications network. The OCS includes an exposed Application Programming Interface API having a first interface for communicating with an Application Server AS of a content provider a second interface for communicating with a Policy and Charging Rules Function FCRF and a third interface for communicating with a Policy and Charging Enforcement Function. The OCS is operative to receive a first request over the second interface for an initial charging policy report in response to a detection of a user s data session with the AS of the content provider send a first response to the first request toward the PCRF over the second interface including the requested initial charging policy report such that the PCRF selects a first Policy Charging Control Rule PCC Rule in accordance with the report for enforcement at the PCEF receive a second request via the exposed API to perform an online subscription of the user to a sponsored data plan SDP and send a second response to the second request toward the PCRF including information about the SDP such that the PCRF selects a second PCC Rule in accordance with the information for enforcement at the PCEF.

Numerous advantages and benefits of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification.

For clarity and simplicity the present specification shall refer to structural and or functional elements relevant standards and or protocols and other components that are commonly known in the art without further detailed explanation as to their configuration or operation except to the extent they have been modified or altered in accordance with and or to accommodate the preferred embodiment s presented herein.

Described herein is a method and or system providing end to end management of sponsored data plans. To this end a sponsored data plan is defined via a meta model e.g. that is exportable from a content provider s application server to an online charging system OCS of a network operator and a policy and charging rules function PCRF through an exposed application programming interface API platform. Suitably requests to register subscribers to sponsored data plans are submitted by the content provider s application server to the network operator s OCS via the API platform. A mechanism is provided to ensure sponsored data session detection. Optionally the mechanism may be provided e.g. via suitable layer 3 transport layer and or layer 7 application layer configuration at the policy and charging enforcement function PCEF or via the exposed API platform. In the latter case appropriate messaging and or signaling from the content provider s application server to the network operator s OCS may provide the trigger to ensure a differentiated Gy session related to the sponsored data.

With reference now to there is shown a suitable network architecture for practicing aspects of the present inventive subject matter. As shown the architecture includes the aforementioned OCS of a network operator. The OCS is linked to and or otherwise in operative communication with the aforementioned API platform e.g. via a suitable hypertext transfer protocol HTTP interface or the like and or a suitable Sp interface or the like. In turn the API platform is linked and or otherwise in operative communication with the content provider s application server e.g. via a suitable representational state transfer REST interface or the like.

The API platform is also linked and or otherwise in operative communication with a PCRF e.g. via a suitable Rx interface or the like. As shown suitable Sy and Sp interfaces or the like interconnect and or otherwise link the PCRF and the OCS to one another. Suitably via a Gy interface or the like the OCS is linked and or otherwise in operative communication with the general packet radio service GPRS core e.g. including a packet data network gateway PGW a PCEF a gateway GPRS support node GGSN and a deep packet inspection DPI part . Likewise the PCRF is linked and or otherwise in operative communication with the GPRS core via a suitable Gx interface of the like.

In the illustrated embodiment a user application server UAS is linked and or otherwise in operative communication with the OCS and the API platform e.g. via HTTP interfaces or the like. Suitably the UAS includes and or has access to a sever side software development kit SDK and or server side software library. Also shown is a handset or client device e.g. such as a smart phone or the like . The handset or client device is suitably equipped and or otherwise provisioned with a client side SDK and or client side software library e.g. used to develop and or support a smart client residing and or operational on the handset or client device . As shown an HTTP interface or the like interconnects and or otherwise links the SDKs and to one another and or otherwise supports communication of the client application with the UAS and or OCS .

As mentioned above in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein a sponsored data plan is suitably defined by a meta model that describes the sponsored data plan according to one or more established parameters and or a defined schema between the network operator and the content provider. Suitably the meta model identifies date services involved in the plan the degree of sponsorship e.g. full or partial sponsorship associated notification scheme i.e. what to notify of when to notify and who to notify usage restriction for the sponsored data plan e.g. time band maximum volume allowance etc. associated policy charging control rules PCC Rule that define the charging and the bandwidth and quality of service QoS to be applied. Suitably the PCC Rule is selected by the PCRF and enforced at the PCEF and this allows determining the rating group the service identifier or charging key to be used to be used for charging and the bandwidth and QoS to be granted for the user session.

More specifically one parameter defined in the meta model is a sponsored data plan flow identifier otherwise referred to as the service identifier or data flow identifier. Suitably this parameter uniquely determines the data service accessed by the sponsored data plan in question which can be mapped to a service identifier or to a data flow identifier and or to a rating group. Another parameter of the meta model identifies the application server of the content provider. For example this identifier may be an internet protocol IP address e.g. in the form 192.123.222.xx or a domain e.g. in the form www.domainname.com or a uniform resource locator URL pattern e.g. in the form www.domainname. . Yet another parameter of the meta model may be a unique identifier that identifies the content provider.

Other parameters of the meta model include a sponsored data plan identifier which identifies the sponsored data plan a version identifier which identifies the version of the sponsored data plan and start and end dates in between which sponsored data plan is valid. The meta model also suitably includes a subscription rule for the sponsored data plan. The subscription rule defines how often subscriptions to the SDP may obtained by a user e.g. a single shot subscription valid between given dates or a recurring subscription with a valid start date.

The meta model also may define rating rules for the SDP that define a rating unit e.g. time volume or event and the quantity sponsored. For example a time based rating rule may define the units in terms of seconds or minute or hours and also define the number of units so sponsored i.e. such that the SDP covers so many units for a given price or cost. In another example the rating rule may define the units in terms of kilobytes Kb or megabytes Mb along with the number of units so sponsored i.e. such that the SDP covers so many units for a given price or cost. In still another example the rating rule may define a per event or per session rating i.e. such that the SDP covers so many events or sessions for a given price or cost. Of course in each of the foregoing examples the price or cost may be defined in the rating rule so as to be free to the end user if so desired i.e. the SDP has no cost or price for the subscription thereto either in total or for some limited portion e.g. the first so many units of time or volume or events may be free .

Another meta model parameter is a subscription usage rule for single shot or single usage subscriptions. This rule defines the conditions under which the SDP may be used by subscribers of the network operator. For example the rule may be time based and define a time band during which the SDP can be used by subscribers. In this case the rule may include a start time and or date and an end time and or date. In another case this rule may be threshold based and define a data volume threshold over which the SDP may no longer be usable by a subscriber. The rule may further define what types of subscriber may use the SDP e.g. all subscriber of the network operator or only prepaid or only postpaid subscribers etc.

Yet another meta model parameter is a notification rule. The notification rule defines under what conditions and or when selected notifications will be sent who those notification will be send to e.g. the user the network operator the content provider etc. and the content of the notifications. The meta model may also define the SDP subscription fee if any.

The meta model suitably also includes the applicable PCC Rule for the SDP which in turn determines or is used to determine the rating group for charging purposes and or the QoS and or uplink and or downlink bandwidths applied to the user s data session.

The meta model may further include a parameter which reflects the state of the SDP e.g. as created in the OCS active inactive etc. One other parameter that may be included in the meta model is a revenue settlement rule e.g. that may be fixed or some percentage which defines revenue sharing as between the content provider and the network operator to the extent applicable.

In one suitable embodiment the SDP is registered in the OCS of the network operator e.g. by exporting a meta model with suitably define parameters from the application server of the content provider to the OCS of the network operator via the API . In practice via the REST HTTP interface the content provider is able to send a request to export the SDP meta model towards the network operator s OCS . In this way the content provider s SDP can be included in the product catalogue of the network operator s OCS e.g. along with a tariff plan QoS plan notification plan usage plan etc.

Suitably the API supports the export of the SDP from the content provider s application server to the network operator s OCS and allows for selective activation of the SDP. The API is also arranged to permit the modification of SDP characteristics and or the meta model parameters.

In practice an end user may selectively access the application server of the content provider e.g. to download or stream music or videos or other content or data or applications therefrom. In this case the content provider detects that the end user belongs to or is a subscriber of a specific network operator having a partnership with the content provider. For example this detection may be based on a device IP address and or a smart client application identifier associated with the client and or device used by the end user to access the application server . In the latter case the network operator suitably provides an appropriate SDK with API to its partner content providers which are in turned used by each partner content provider to embed in its developed smart client an API to access exposed functionality of the network operator as well as a dedicated access point name APN which is used to access the content provider s content.

In one suitable embodiment the content provider s application server can prompt invite and or otherwise propose to an accessing user that they subscribe to and or access an associated SDP e.g. with preferential prices and or QoS. Provided the user accepts or otherwise grants approval to subscribe to the SDP the content provider suitably sends a subscription request e.g. from the application server to the OCS of the network operator e.g. via the API to register the user which is already a subscriber of the network operator for a subscription to an identified SDP e.g. which has already be configured in the OCS .

Suitably for charging and policy control purposes the OCS is provisioned and or otherwise configured to detect if a user is accessing and or has otherwise subscribed to a SDP. For example either the PCEF or PGW GGSN PCEF supports layer 3 IP header inspection for source and destination address determination. In one embodiment the network operator optionally configures a dedicated APN for a SDP with an identified IP address of the content provider s servers e.g. such as the application server . Accordingly service detection can be based on the IP address i.e. destination address with a dedicated APN and a static PCC Rule can be used to determine the QoS and rating group applied to all subscribers traffic across the APN. The PGW GGSN suitably triggers the OCS for credit control with the identified rating group through a Diameter Gy credit control interface to enable the OCS to determine tariff access and usage control and to notify the PCRF about policy control. Suitably differentiation is made per sponsored application server IP address but not per accessed URL service provided by the same application server IP address.

Alternately the PCEF and or the PGW GGSN support layer 7 DPI functionality. This DPI functionality allows the configuration of an IP filter for given URLs domains and or sets of URLs. In this case a policy rule can be configured in the PCRF and enforced at the PWG GGSN PCEF with a dedicated rating group and service identifier per defined URL domain or set of URLs. In this way the OSC can identify the data session related to a sponsored service.

In yet another embodiment for charging and policy control purposes the OCS is provisioned to detect if a user is accessing and or has otherwise subscribed to a SDP based on interaction with the API . In this case the exposed API is used by the application server at the start of user access to the sponsored domain to submit a request to the API platform . In response to the request the API platform may react in one or more of a number of ways.

Optionally the API platform may fork a Diameter Rx request toward the PCRF as well as fork another request e.g. either Diameter or simple object access protocol SOAP to the OCS . This enables the OCS to get parameters related to the SDP e.g. a charging key application server address etc. that can be used in mapping with attribute value pairs AVPs transmitted in the Gy interface for service determination. Alternately the API platform may send a request to the OCS that will then execute it and relay it also the PCRF . In yet another alternate embodiment the API platform will only send the request to the PCRF that will in turn execute the same to select the PCC Rule to be enforced at the PCEF. For PCC Rule selection the PCRF suitably interrogates the OCS via the Sy interface. Suitably the Sy interface is extended to include in the PCRF to OCS request some additional parameters to enable the OCS to determine that the SDP is being invoked. For example these additional parameters may include the charging key of the sponsored data flow and the sponsored application server address. Again these parameters can then be used in the mapping with AVPs transmitted in the Gy interface for service determination.

In any event the PCRF suitably selects the PCC Rule and instructs it to the GGSN PCEF for activation and or application. The PCC Rule enables PGW GGSN PCEF to determine the rating group mapped to the charging key associated with traffic directed towards the IP address of the application server . The PGW GGSN PCEF will then trigger the charging at the OSC via a suitable Diameter Ro and or Gy interface for session charging. The OCS would be based on mapping between the charging key received previously through the Rx or Sy interface and the rating group received via the Gy interface.

In another suitable embodiment a smart client application may be developed by the content provider e.g. for the end user s client device . This smart client application may then be used for service detection purposes. The network operator for example may distribute to its partner content providers an SDK to be used when they are building their smart client application . Suitably the SDK enables the client device and or a developed client application thereon to call or otherwise link to exposed APIs to access the OCS for self care and or online subscription management by the user. There may also be provisioned the option to access the PCRF via exposed Rx API and or other network functionality e.g. like statistical information related to SDP usage etc. Using the SDK the partner content provider may also develop a handset application client that enables the content provider to push a promotional SDP towards a subscriber. For example the SDP may be pushed by the content provider to the handset or mobile device of the user. If the user then opts in the developed application can submit a request to the OCS to register the user for the offer and or otherwise subscribe the user to the SDP already configured in the OCS . This embodiment has an advantage of additional privacy and it enable the setting of preferences and asking the user if they wish to accept the pushed SDP and or promotional SDP during their data session. Suitably preference may be set by the user at the time of account activation or it can be an option on a self care menu that the user has the capability to change as they see fit. Additionally the smart client can be pre configured in the handset or mobile device with a pre defined APN for sponsored data access. The smart client may also include or otherwise be provisioned with a client application identifier which can in turn be used to enhance subscriber identification by the network operator and or content provider.

In one optional embodiment the SDK may also be used to develop a smart client that is embedded with a light URL service detection i.e. a smart client with embedded DPI . In this case the smart client will be able to detect any URL initiated by end user. For each URL it will be able to count uplink bytes and downlink bytes from and towards the handset or mobile device . Suitably there is no inspection of content by this particular DPI but rather only the retrieving of a uniform resource identifier URI e.g. using a request like Get HTTP from the HTTP header. Also usage control can be implemented by this smart client per service and or per URL as it has embedded therein its own DPI functionality. Optionally the smart client can have a defined white list of allowed URLs and or defined blocked list of URLs. This white list and or blocked list of URLs can be communicated by the smart client in the handset and or mobile device and the OCS and or updated via suitable self care e.g. when the end user modifies his subscription. Also the limit thresholds in volume duration unit can be communicated for each URL of the white list by a smart charging application server towards the smart client every billing cycle or when thresholds are modified via self care. Accordingly the UAS can build various subscription offers and foreword them to the client application . Such offers may include e.g. a first offer with a list of unlimited access URLs like to Google Yahoo etc. another offer with a list of Limited access URLs like to YouTube FaceBook including up to 1 GB per month for a given monthly fee and still another offer with a list of premium URLs like access to the Disney World site including up to 1 GB per for a different monthly fee. Accordingly any access to any of these URLs can be detected by the smart client DPI and access control can then be based on the subscription type and or also the white list and or blocked list. If a user accesses a new URL for the first time and if a tracking option is activated in the handset then this URL can be communicated by smart client to OCS which can check if there are any SDP offers to be pushed by notification to this subscriber. For example if a user is connecting to the New York Times Journal online the OCS is aware that the user can subscribe to unlimited access to this URL for a given monthly fee. Such a notification may then be pushed to the user. If the user accepts this subscription this URL may be added to the list of unlimited access URLs for the user. This can then be communicated to other network elements as desired.

Optionally the SDKs will enable a network operator to expose APIs and enable content providers and or other partners to develop the smart client application with the ability to access and number of network functionalities whose exposure the network operator can enable and or disable as they see fit. For example APIs may support any one or more of the following 

In one optionally embodiment the SDK can be used to expose an API towards a partners application server for the purpose of communicating and or exchanging some business intelligence and or information related to their SDPs e.g. according to the network operator s configuration by enabling or disabling such capabilities . For example the business analysis can be launched periodically to enable communicating various information such as per SDP the global generated revenue subscribed users distributed per location global upload UP download DL volume global uplink downlink per peak hour off peak hour average session duration etc. or per subscriber global data volume UP DL transmitted frequent location time band session duration etc. In practice such information can potentially help the operator and partner content providers to adjust maximum data allowance associated QoS tariff time band for such SDPs as well as better segmentation of SDPs and subscribers.

Suitably the OCS can be provisioned with a table of SDPs. This table can be provisioned in the OCS during the export import of SDPs from the content provider s application server and managed through the exposed API platform . In practice this table can be also used to get more information about a SDP when the OCS is triggered by the PGW GGSN PCEF via the Gy interface based on Gy rating group AVP or via an extended Sy interface with the PCRF . Suitably the extended Sy interface may contains parameter for the sponsor Id the SDP Id the sponsor application server Id the sponsored service Id and its charging key the sponsored charging scheme the sponsored notification scheme etc. At the start of sponsored data session suitably the PCRF is triggered by either of the PCEF PGW GGSN via the Gx interface. Alternately the PCRF is triggered by the API platform on behave of the content provider application server through the Rx interface. Accordingly the PCRF interrogates the OCS via the extended Sy interface to get the subscriber consumption status through an initial charging policy request SLR Initial Request . Suitably the Sy interface is extended to permit parameters sent by PCRF to OCS to include other input parameters that were transmitted to PCRF via the Gx and or Rx interface. For example these additional parameters may include the charging key a sponsor Id a sponsored application Id. Suitably these extended parameters may be transmitted from PCRF to OCS via the Sy interface during the initial charging policy request. These parameters will enhance the OCS capabilities of sponsored service identification and can be used by the OCS to interrogate its internal product catalogue including the table of imported SDPs. Of course the Sy interface can be further extended to accommodate other parameters like AF Correlation Information and PCC Rule Name to be transmitted from PCRF to the OCS during initial charging policy request to yet further enhance the OCS capabilities for sponsored service identification.

With reference not to there are shown two exemplary scenarios illustrating aspects of the present inventive subject matter. In both scenarios the initial steps are essentially the same so they will be described herein but once.

In practice a user e.g. employing the smart client on the client device access the web site or application server of the content provider e.g. at a particular URL and or via a pre configured APN. As shown in a first step the session will go through the network operator s PCEF based on the configured APN in the handset or mobile device . Suitably this APN is specific for sponsored data.

At step the PCEF contacts the PCRF e.g. via the Gx interface for a PCC Rule to apply and at step the PCRF interrogates the OCS for an initial charging policy report and at step the OCS returns the same.

Accordingly the PCRF selects the appropriate PCC Rule and at step forwards the same to the PCEF where the selected PCC Rule is applied. At step the PCEF triggers the OCS e.g. via the Gy interface for credit control of the user s session with a normal rating across the APN e.g. a Rating Group of RG 1 . Accordingly at step the OCS checks the user s account allocates a volume slice and answers the PCEF.

At step the PCEF lets the user s session go to the content provider s application server . In this embodiment the content provider detects that this subscriber is from a network operator with which the content provider has a partnership i.e. a network operator which the content provider has established a SDP . For example such detection may be made based on the source address of the mobile device e.g. the device s IP address.

Accordingly at step the content provider can propose or invite the user to subscribe to and or register for the SDP which will enable the user to access the data from the application server e.g. without incurring the cost for transport across the operator s network or at some reduced cost or otherwise e.g. as defined in the meta model for the SDP. In this particular example at step the user accepts the offered SDP. At step the application server sends a REST request to the API platform with information about the subscriber s device IP address the SDP Id the sponsor s or content provider s Id the address of the application server the Id of the smart application the sponsoring scheme charging key etc.

At this point the two scenarios may differ. As shown in the first scenario depicted in at step the API platform relays the request toward the OCS which in turn uses the information therein to perform an online subscription of this user to the corresponding SDP already configured in the OCS . At step the OCS gets the subscriber s IMSI MSISDN international mobile subscriber identity mobile station international subscriber directory number based on a query to an applicable domain name server DNS and the IP address of the device . In response to the query at step the DNS returns the applicable subscriber identity for the corresponding packet data protocol PDP context i.e. for the IP address of the device .

At step the OCS builds an Rx request from the incoming REST request that was relayed thereto in HTTP or Rx form by the API platform . The build Rx request is accordingly forwarded to or otherwise sent towards the PCRF with information about the SDP. In turn at step the PCRF uses the SDP information received from the OCS to select a new PCC Rule in accordance with the SDP and forwards the same so as to be enforced at the PCEF. At step the PCEF acknowledges installation of the newly acquired PCC Rule for the SDP and at step the PCRF in turn returns a suitable acknowledgement back to the OCS which in turn returns at step a suitable acknowledgement to the API platform which in turn returns at step a suitable acknowledgement to the content provider s application server of a successful subscription to the SDP.

Meanwhile at step the PCEF triggers the OCS with a new Rating Group e.g. RG 2 that was installed by the PCC Rule selected by the PCRF for the SDP. In practice this Rating Group may be associated with a dedicated APN for the SDP. Accordingly the OCS will not count data for this particular user session against the user s own account based on the correlation between the dedicated APN dedicated Rating Group for this APN subscriber ID and charging key. Rather the OCS will charge the data session against the content provider and or sponsor s account based on the correlation between the dedicated APN dedicated Rating Group for this APN subscriber ID and charging key to find the sponsor Id and associated account.

As shown in the second scenario depicted in at step the API platform relays the request toward the OCS which in turn uses the information therein to perform an online subscription of this user to the corresponding SDP already configured in the OCS . At step the OCS gets the subscriber s IMSI MSISDN international mobile subscriber identity mobile station international subscriber directory number based on a query to an applicable domain name server DNS and the IP address of the device . In response to the query at step the DNS returns the applicable subscriber identity for the corresponding packet data protocol PDP context i.e. for the IP address of the device .

At step the OCS submits a suitable acknowledgement to the API platform of the successful operation. In response at step the API platform builds an Rx request from the incoming REST request that was previously relayed thereto from the application server . The build Rx request is accordingly forwarded to or otherwise sent towards the PCRF . In turn at step the PCRF interrogates the OCS via the Sy interface about the charging policy report and at step the OCS answers the PCRF with the initial charging policy report associated with the SDP.

At step the PCRF selects a new PCC Rule in accordance with the initial charging report and forwards the same so as to be enforced at the PCEF. At step the PCEF acknowledges installation of the newly acquired PCC Rule for the SDP e.g. with a new Rating Group and possibly a new APN and at step the PCRF in turn returns a suitable acknowledgement back to the to the API platform which in turn returns at step a suitable acknowledgement to the content provider s application server of a successful subscription to the SDP.

Meanwhile at step the PCEF triggers the OCS with a new Rating Group e.g. RG 2 that was installed by the PCC Rule selected by the PCRF for the SDP. In practice this Rating Group may be associated with a dedicated APN for the SDP. Accordingly the OCS will not count data for this particular user session against the user s own account based on the correlation between the dedicated APN dedicated Rating Group for this APN subscriber ID and charging key. Rather the OCS will charge the data session against the content provider and or sponsor s account based on the correlation between the dedicated APN dedicated Rating Group for this APN subscriber ID and charging key to find the sponsor Id and associated account.

While described above with respect to specific examples and or embodiments it is to be appreciated that various alternatives are contemplated. For example it is to be appreciated that in connection with the particular exemplary embodiment s presented herein certain structural and or function features are described as being incorporated in defined elements and or components. However it is contemplated that these features may to the same or similar benefit also likewise be incorporated in other elements and or components where appropriate. It is also to be appreciated that different aspects of the exemplary embodiments may be selectively employed as appropriate to achieve other alternate embodiments suited for desired applications the other alternate embodiments thereby realizing the respective advantages of the aspects incorporated therein.

It is also to be appreciated that any one or more of the particular tasks steps processes analysis methods functions elements and or components described herein may suitably be implemented via hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. For example the various elements and or nodes may include a processor e.g. embodied by a computing or other electronic data processing device that is configured and or otherwise provisioned to perform one or more of the tasks steps processes analysis methods and or functions described herein. For example one or more computers or servers or other electronic data processing devices may be employed in the system and may be provided supplied and or programmed with a suitable listing of code e.g. such as source code interpretive code object code directly executable code and so forth or other like instructions or software or firmware e.g. such as an application to perform and or administer the processing and or image analysis described herein such that when run and or executed by the computer or other electronic data processing device one or more of the tasks steps processes analysis methods and or functions described herein are completed or otherwise performed. Suitably the listing of code or other like instructions or software or firmware is implemented as and or recorded stored contained or included in and or on a non transitory computer and or machine readable storage medium or media so as to be providable to and or executable by the computer or other electronic data processing device. For example suitable storage mediums and or media can include but are not limited to floppy disks flexible disks hard disks magnetic tape or any other magnetic storage medium or media CD ROM DVD optical disks or any other optical medium or media a RAM a ROM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM or other memory or chip or cartridge or any other tangible medium or media from which a computer or machine or electronic data processing device can read and use. In essence as used herein non transitory computer readable and or machine readable mediums and or media comprise all computer readable and or machine readable mediums and or media except for a transitory propagating signal.

Optionally any one or more of the particular tasks steps processes analysis methods functions elements and or components described herein may be implemented on and or embodiment in one or more general purpose computers special purpose computer s a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA Graphical card CPU GPU or PAL or the like. In general any device capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the respective tasks steps processes analysis methods and or functions described herein can be used.

Additionally it is to be appreciated that certain elements described herein as incorporated together may under suitable circumstances be stand alone elements or otherwise divided. Similarly a plurality of particular functions described as being carried out by one particular element may be carried out by a plurality of distinct elements acting independently to carry out individual functions or certain individual functions may be split up and carried out by a plurality of distinct elements acting in concert. Alternately some elements or components otherwise described and or shown herein as distinct from one another may be physically or functionally combined where appropriate.

In short the present specification has been set forth with reference to preferred and or other embodiments. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the present specification. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

