---

title: Compositionally graded transparent ceramic armor
abstract: A transparent ceramic composite armor is made of a crystalline transparent ceramic material and an amorphous glass phase material. The armor includes a first portion containing 100 per cent ceramic material; a second portion contiguous and integral with the first portion and containing a combination of the ceramic material and the glass phase material; and a third portion contiguous and integral with the second portion and containing 100 per cent glass phase material. Relative volumetric amounts of the ceramic material and the glass phase material in the second portion are inversely related and a greatest volume percentage of the ceramic material is adjacent the first portion. The volume percentage of the ceramic material in the second portion decreases a direction away from the strike face of the armor, while the volume percentage of the glass phase material increases in the same direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09140522&OS=09140522&RS=09140522
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09140522
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120905
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to ceramic composites and in particular to transparent ceramic armor.

Transparent armor is a material or system of materials designed to be optically transparent yet protect from fragmentation or ballistic impacts. This class of materials is used in diverse applications such as for example protective visors for non combat usage such as riot control or explosive ordinance disposal EOD actions. These materials may also be used as vehicle windows in ground sea and air vehicles to protect vehicle occupants or equipment for example sensors from terrorist actions or other hostile conflicts. Each of these systems are designed to defeat specific threats however there are general requirements common to most.

Composites of ceramic and other materials such as glass and polycarbonate have been suggested as impact resistant transparent armor. For example United States Statutory Invention Registration No. H1567 describes a transparent composite armor having a hard frangible face plate backed by a more resilient plate. United States Statutory Invention Registration No. HI519 describes the bonding of transparent aluminum oxide or magnesium oxide to a backup plate of transparent plastic. U.S. Pat. No. 7 584 689 issued on Sep. 8 2009 to Jones et al. discloses a transparent ceramic armor with a laminate design and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

As shown in a known laminate may include an outer strike layer made of ceramic material one or more internal layers of glass and a polycarbonate backing layer . Polycarbonate backing layer functions as a spall catch for bullet or armor fragments. Adhesive layers may be used between the other layers to provide some crack mitigation during impact and to reduce stress from differences in the coefficients of thermal expansion.

Survivability of transparent ceramic armor in terms of multi hit capability is a parameter of prime importance. However the reflection of stress intensity waves is maximized in existing ceramic glass laminate designs such as laminate . This is an undesirable feature and can lead to accelerated self defeat of the transparent ceramic. A need exists for transparent ceramic armor that is better able to withstand and survive multiple hits.

One aspect of the invention is a transparent ceramic composite armor made of a crystalline transparent ceramic material and an amorphous glass phase material. The armor has a strike face and an axis perpendicular to the strike face. The armor includes first second and third portions. Each portion has a width measured along the axis. The first portion contains 100 per cent ceramic material and includes the strike face. The second portion is contiguous and integral with the first portion. The second portion contains a combination of the ceramic material and the glass phase material. Relative volumetric amounts of the ceramic material and the glass phase material in the second portion are inversely related.

The greatest volume percentage of the ceramic material in the second portion is adjacent the first portion and the volume percentage of the ceramic material in the second portion decreases along the axis in a direction away from the strike face. The third portion is contiguous and integral with the second portion. The third portion contains 100 per cent of the glass phase material. The lowest volume percentage of the glass phase material in the second portion is adjacent the first portion and the volume percentage of the glass phase material in the second portion increases along the axis in the direction away from the strike face.

In one embodiment the volume percentage of the ceramic material in the second portion decreases linearly along the axis in the direction away from the strike face.

In another embodiment the volume percentage of the ceramic material in the second portion decreases stepwise along the axis in the direction away from the strike face.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of making a transparent ceramic composite armor that includes melting glass phase material and percolating the molten glass phase material into the ceramic material. The glass phase material may be provided in powder form or in bulk form.

Another method of making the armor includes providing a ceramic substrate made of 100 ceramic material. The ceramic substrate includes a strike face. The face opposite the strike face may be grit blasted to enhance coating adhesion. The method includes depositing a graded multi layered coating on the grit blasted face of the ceramic substrate using a plasma torch. The graded multi layered coating includes a plurality of layers made of a combination of ceramic material powder and atomized glass phase powder.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A transparent ceramic composite armor may include a compositional grading of the ceramic glass interface s of the ceramic composite armor. The compositional grading is referred to as Functionally Graded Material FGM . In general the FGM approach to ballistic protection originated in ceramic metal graded designs such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 802 850 issued on Apr. 9 1974 to Clougherty which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

In the context of transparent ceramic composite armor the FGM approach entails the interpenetration of two phases a transparent polycrystalline ceramic phase with an amorphous glass phase. Stress intensity waves caused by an impact event on the ceramic strike face are better absorbed by the interpenetration of the two phases. Better absorption is accomplished by reducing back propagation of the stress intensity waves. Reduction of the stress intensity wave reflection leads to an enhanced survival of the ceramic composite armor with concomitant improvement of multi hit capability.

Armor may include a first portion having a width a measured along axis X. First portion contains 100 per cent of the ceramic material and includes strike face .

A second portion of armor has a width b along axis X. Second portion is contiguous and integral with first portion . Second portion contains a combination of the ceramic material and the glass phase material. Relative volumetric amounts of the ceramic material and the glass phase material in second portion are inversely related. The greatest volume percentage of the ceramic material in second portion is adjacent first portion . The volume percentage of the ceramic material in second portion decreases along axis X in the direction away from strike face . The lowest volume percentage of the glass phase material in second portion is adjacent first portion . The volume percentage of the glass phase material in second portion increases along axis X in the direction away from strike face . By way of example width b of second portion is in a range of 0.05 to 0.4 inches.

In some embodiments of armor the volume percentage of the ceramic material in second portion may decrease linearly along axis X in the direction away from strike face and the volume percentage of the glass phase material in second portion may increase linearly along axis X in the direction away from strike face . In other embodiments of armor the volume percentage of the ceramic material in second portion may decrease in a stepwise manner along axis X in the direction away from strike face and the volume percentage of the glass phase material in second portion may increase in a stepwise manner along axis X in the direction away from strike face .

A third portion of armor has a width c measured along axis X. Third portion is contiguous and integral with second portion of armor . Third portion contains 100 per cent of the glass phase material. Third portion may include a rear face .

Armor may include a first adhesive layer adjacent rear face and a first glass layer adjacent first adhesive layer . Additional alternating layers of adhesive and glass respectively may be disposed behind first glass layer . A last adhesive layer may be disposed adjacent a last glass layer and a spall shield layer may be disposed adjacent last adhesive layer . Spall shield layer may be made of for example polycarbonate.

Possible methods for fabricating first second and third portions of armor include molten glass percolation and thermal plasma spraying. The molten glass percolation method may include two varying methods one using glass in powder form and one using glass in bulk form. To produce powder percolated portions glass phase powder is sieved for example through a 32 micron mesh sieve. An aqueous suspension of the sieved glass phase powder is then formed. A layer of the aqueous suspension is uniformly spread on a transparent ceramic substrate made of 100 of the ceramic material. The water in the suspension that is spread on the ceramic substrate is dried off in a kiln. The ceramic substrate and dried suspension are heat treated. The heat treatment causes the glass to melt and penetrate into the polycrystalline ceramic substrate. The ceramic and glass graded material can then be air cooled.

 Bulk percolated portions may be fabricated by placing a glass slice or slab of a given thickness onto the surface of a transparent ceramic substrate performing a heat treatment on the glass slice and ceramic substrate and then cooling down in air.

Thermal plasma sprayed portions may be produced by grit blasting a substrate made of 100 transparent ceramic material. The grit blasting will enhance coating adhesion. The glass powder is atomized to optimize the spraying process. A graded multi layered glass transparent ceramic coating is deposited onto the transparent ceramic substrate using a plasma torch. The graded coating is constructed by depositing several layers one on top of the other. Each layer is created by spraying a mixture of a fixed composition of nanocrystalline ceramic powder and atomized glass powder. The mean composition of the multi layer coating progressively changes from mostly nanocrystalline ceramic powder for example 80 ceramic powder adjacent the ceramic substrate to mostly glass powder for example 80 glass powder further away from the ceramic substrate and then changes to a 100 glass top layer. Then the thermal plasma sprayed portions are subjected to a heat treatment.

Although an embodiment of armor has not been fabricated computer modeling Abaqus demonstrates the advantage of armor compared to prior art laminate designs. is a graph of stress in psi vs. distance in inches for a prior art transparent ceramic armor such as armor in . On the distance x axis 0 to 0.5 inches corresponds to ceramic layer in . The arrow S22 points to the interface between ceramic layer and a first glass layer . On the distance axis first glass layer corresponds to 0.5 inches to about 0.7 inches a second glass layer corresponds to about 0.7 inches to about 0.9 inches and a final glass layer corresponds to about 0.9 inches to about 1.1 inches.

The details materials steps and arrangement of parts have been described and illustrated to explain the nature of the invention. It will be understood that many changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

