---

title: Infrared laser landing marker
abstract: An infrared laser landing marker system provides a capability to mark a boundary line of varying lengths with near infrared lasers, e.g., of the order 8xx nm. This system can be either directly operated or remotely operated via satellite communications and is compatible with currently fielded night vision goggles. Two modules, placed at either end of boundary, self align to each other and then proceed to mark a boundary edge of a landing zone with an infrared laser line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08692691&OS=08692691&RS=08692691
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08692691
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates to illumination systems for military aircraft and more particularly to infrared laser landing markers.

The typical method of marking a temporary boundary or landing zone is through the use of beacons that are arranged around a safe landing area or by marking the area with hand held high powered lasers. These methods require personnel to be on the ground and in the vicinity of the landing area in order to place and operate the markers. Requiring ground operators to be present also limits safety efficiency and jeopardizes the success of the operation. When lasers are used to mark the boundaries of the area they are often hand operated and rely on the skill and accuracy of the operator.

An exemplary Infrared Laser Landing Marker is comprised of two modules placed at opposite ends of a landing zone. Each module has the capability of detecting and aligning to the opposing module and to scan a laser line on the ground out to the opposing module creating a solid line along one edge of a landing zone. These modules can be adjusted to be used on landing zones of varying length.

In one aspect an exemplary infrared laser landing marker system comprises placing two opposing infrared laser landing marker modules at opposite ends of a predetermined area to mark a landing zone each said module being mounted to a platform or a tripod and stationed at each respective end along a boundary edge of said landing zone said two opposing modules being oriented facing each other with a horizontal tolerance of about 20 degrees respectively activating the modules to emit an alignment laser for the opposing module to align to detecting and aligning with the respective opposing module by each of the modules for alignment and disabling the respective alignment laser upon completion of said alignment and generating a near infrared line generating laser about half the distance of the landing zone creating one continuous boundary line spanning the length of the landing zone.

In another aspect an infrared laser landing marker module capable of detecting an opposing module beacon for self alignment comprises an alignment laser to function as a point source beacon for the opposing module to detect for self alignment a quad photo detecting sensor having four quadrants to detect an alignment laser from said opposing module the four quadrants of the sensor capable of enabling compare and determine for alignment to said opposing module a line generating laser for activation upon completion of alignment a processor and electronics board for computations to determine the needed adjust alignment and a pan motor and a tilt stepper motor for adjustment of azimuth and elevation of the module.

Yet in another aspect an exemplary infrared laser landing marker operating method comprises placing one infrared laser landing marker module at one end and another module at another end of a landing zone to define the length of a landing strip disposing the modules to oppose each other within a 20 degree horizontal tolerance activating the infrared laser landing marker by powering the respective module selecting a runway distance setting to closely approximate the landing strip length of the landing zone activating an alignment laser for each module to alignment with respect to the opposing module and activating a line generator.

As variously disclosed greater accuracy in marking a boundary edge of a landing zone can be achieved including the ability for long term pre placement and remote operation. The ability of the modules to self align to each other reduces risk and the time it takes to correctly place the modules.

Apparatus There are several components that are integrated together in one IRLLM module that include mechanical electrical and optical parts. shows an exemplary module of an infrared laser landing marker IRLLM with the major components that make up such an exemplary IRLLM Module. The capability to detect an opposing module is disclosed for the ability of self alignment. To accomplish self alignment the alignment laser is used to act as a point source beacon for another module to detect. This laser is detected by a quad photo detecting sensor . The four quadrants e.g. of the sensor act as or enable comparators to determine alignment to the opposing module. Differences in signal strength across the sensor determine the directions the module must move in order to self align. The calculations to determine how much to adjust alignment is performed by the processor and electronics board . The azimuth and elevation of the module is adjusted by one pan and one tilt stepper motor. This process is repeated until the module is completely aligned. Once alignment is accomplished the module will deactivate the alignment laser and activate the line generating laser . The battery chamber supplies power to the sensor motors e.g. electronics and lasers e.g. to enable the modules usage in remote locations that are without electricity. User controls e.g. are located on the back of the module enabling a user to activate and deactivate the module physically or remotely if the module has been pre placed prior to a landing operation.

System As variously shown in and the IRLLM Infrared Laser Landing Marker is a self aligning covert marker for temporary and ad hoc landing zones. One IRLLM module is comprised of electrical optical and mechanical components as described in there are two such modules and per one IRLLM system . Each module is mounted to a tripod and but can be mounted to other stable platforms as well.

Method shows an exemplary infrared laser landing marker IRLLM flowchart. Referring to such a method uses an Infrared Laser Landing Marker e.g. or as described with respect to . Starting with step an operator can place the system with one module at one end and another module at another end of a landing zone to define the length of a landing strip . They are disposed facing each other within a 20 degree horizontal tolerance Ta Tb . Once placed in step the user activates the system by toggling the power ON of the respective module and either physically on the system or remotely via communications. After powering on the system in step runway distance is selected e.g. to the setting closest to the actual landing strip length of the landing zone. In step pressing the alignment switch will activate the alignment laser e.g. of for each module e.g. or of to self align to one another as depicted in step .

After the alignment of step is accomplished the line generator is activated. The activation of line generator as depicted in step scans a near infrared laser line e.g. along one boundary edge of a designated landing zone e.g. . As shown in branch leading to the reset portion of step the user has the option to reset the system if alignment fails or if he wants to realign the system. For example further shown leading out of step is a yes branch leading back to step for pressing the alignment switch. Once an operation e.g. of the line generator activation branch of is completed the user will toggle the power off as shown in step to deactivate the IRLLM system.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

