---

title: System and method for self-publication
abstract: A system and method for self-publishing includes components reflecting an author's intent with respect to other contributors and readers. Embodiments may include an object model which manages permissions to permit contributors to contribute content and services to the book to replace aspects of the traditional publishing process, and to offer new opportunities for republishing a book. A book may be an electronic book comprising context associated with a focus in the book which is reflected in schema underlying the book. Content may be added by contributors, and different versions of the book may be published with the new content. Ratings and other business intelligence may be provided to the original author to aid selection of contributors and content. A resulting book may be published electronically or as a hard copy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08755058&OS=08755058&RS=08755058
owner: Selfpublish Corporation
number: 08755058
owner_city: Issaquah
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120203
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 528 110 filed on Aug. 26 2011 the benefit of the earlier filing date of which is hereby claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 e and further incorporated by reference.

As electronic book readers become more sophisticated and as the cost of technologies that are capable of producing rich media content decrease providing rich media content to an audience is becoming more important. Traditional books are having a more difficult time competing with the content that is available through the Internet. And as electronic book readers become more commonplace the demand for books printed on paper is going down leaving authors with fewer opportunities to publish their works in a profitable fashion.

Much of the rich content that is available through modern technology is not accessible to an average author. Although modern electronic readers are being produced with increasingly sophisticated abilities and markup languages such as HTML HTML5 Javascript and XML have been simplified through various applications the level of technical sophistication required to incorporate rich content into a published work is beyond the abilities of most authors.

Another shortcoming of modern authorship is the lack of a format for collaborative efforts and continuing additions. The Internet facilitates websites where multiple authors can post their works but a good system for controlling the contributions of multiple authors to a single work especially with regards to rights and revenues is lacking.

Formats accessible through the Internet are not well suited to reading on electronic book readers and are often cluttered with unwanted advertisements and links that are present to provide revenue for the website.

The present invention provides solutions to one or more of the above problems. In particular the present invention includes a system and methods for providing readers and authors with content and opportunities based on intent and more generally a wider notion of context that subsumes intent as a special case. A system according to the present invention may facilitate the re authoring and re publishing portions of an electronic book by one or more re authors while preserving the wider contexts including intent if so desired by the original author at a location in the electronic book.

A computer implemented method for creating an electronic book may include providing a genre from a plurality of genres on a display device each genre being associated with at least one template providing a template for the genre the template including an object policy configured to protect portions of the book that are selected by a first user providing an intent element which reflects the first user s intent with respect to a first portion of the book receiving a genre selection and intent element selection and the protected portions selection from the first user applying a first permission associated with the intent element to a first portion of the book binding a first content to the first portion of the book causing the book including the genre and the template to be published and providing a second content based on contextual data that is specific to a reader.

In an embodiment of the method the first portion may be a set of objects sharing a common predicate from among a plurality of predicates selected based on the common predicate. The common predicate may be the intent element.

The method may further include applying a second permission to a second portion of the book which is not included in the first portion of the book providing business intelligence including a rating of a second user and sales information for other books in the genre and sending book printing information to a printer to print at least one hard copy of the book.

The intent element may include a request for a bid to add content to the first portion of the book and the first permission may be a permission for a second user to contribute content to a portion of the book.

The method may further include applying a second permission to a second portion of the book which is not included in the first portion distributing a copy of the book to the second user incorporating content created by the second user into the first portion of the book to create a second book and publishing the second book.

The steps of publishing the book and publishing the second book may include applying a copyright to the book and the second book the first permission may be a permission to add content to the first portion of the book and the second permission may be a restriction that does not permit adding content to the second portion of the book.

Embodiment of the invention may include a computer readable medium including a computer executable program thereon the computer readable medium comprising code for executing the above described methods.

Further embodiments of the invention include an electronic book system including a processor a display device and a computer readable medium including a computer executable program thereon the computer readable medium comprising code for executing the above described methods.

The present invention includes a system and method for creating and providing an electronic book. Although the following description uses specific examples of various embodiments it should be appreciated that these are exemplary embodiments and the invention is not limited thereto. Although embodiments of the invention are directed to electronic books which are authored and displayed by electronic systems in the following contents for the sake of simplicity an electronic book may be referred to as simply a book. 

In an exemplary electronic book system EBS an author can create an electronic book providing rich content to readers including intentions of a user that can be associated with certain actions or components of an electronic book and an electronic book reader. Examples of electronic book readers that are suitable for an electronic book system include a personal computer a specifically purposed electronic book reader such as a KINDLE product by AMAZON.COM a tablet computer a handheld computing device such as a smartphone a laptop computer or any device which can establish a connection with an electronic data network such as the Internet and includes an electronic graphic interface screen. It is preferred that the electronic book reader is capable of communicating with the Internet either directly or indirectly and has a screen capable of displaying text and images.

Communication element may be a wired or wireless device for communicating with an external apparatus for receiving for example information from the Internet or a remote database. Examples of communication elements include a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a wired or wireless Ethernet device a Bluetooth device or the like.

Computer readable medium may be any physical medium capable of storing data related to EBS . Examples of computer readable media include Random Access Memory RAM flash memory Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM or other forms of semiconductor memory a computer hard drive such as a magnetic or solid state hard drive optical media such as a Compact Disc Read only Memory CD ROM a magnetic storage device etc. In an embodiment a computer readable medium communicates with electronic book reader through communication element .

EBS may include a component for allowing an author to author a book. Such a component may be an ordinary computer which may be a notebook personal computer tablet or the like or an electronic book reader . The component should include at least one input device and a display screen. In certain embodiments book reader and the component are not part of EBS .

The EBS may also include one or more electronic book . An electronic book may comprise text content media content a search module schema and object policy . An electronic book may be stored on a computer readable medium . In addition EBS may include business intelligence an event listener a processor a marketplace and an Application Programming Interface API . Processor may be a computer processor that is configured to read and execute instructions that are stored on computer readable medium .

As shown in EBS may include a Genre one or more Template an Intent a Focus and Context . One or more Intent may be included in a Context . These elements may be reflected in Schema .

A Genre may be a general category of book such as mystery romance science fiction travel and the like. The Genre may be more specific than a conventional taxonomy of books. For example in an embodiment Genre may include a general category such as travel as well as a geographic location of travel a budget for travel such as luxury or discount a mode of travel such as boat foot or car and trip duration such as weekend trips or month long excursions. Genre may be selected by an author during the process of authoring an electronic book . Genres are themselves schematized and one Genre may specialize another. For example Children s Book Baby or Children s Book Young Adult are specializations of the Children s Book Genre. In an exemplary embodiment a Genre may be an object defined by an object model in the EBS satisfying the normal properties of object models including class inheritance and the like.

A Genre may be associated with one or more Template . Template is a typed object that defines various aspects of the book . The Template may define a format for a book including predetermined fields for illustrations text and rich media content. In addition the Template may define the allowed Context and subsequently Intents that are part of the Template . In this manner a Genre is associated with an object model defined by the Template . In an embodiment Template may be configurable by an author or completely determined by an author.

Furthermore in specific embodiments Templates may contain computer executable code that is executed on the electronic book or in the EBS in response to a request made by a reader so as to provide rich content search functionality or other aspects for a reader author or contributor to the book. The executable code may be in a plurality of forms including Java Javascript HTML or other accepted forms of portable executable code. For example code in the Template can execute an order to accept input from a reader. In another example code in the Template can execute on the EBS in response to a search query from a user.

In an embodiment an author may select a Template from a plurality of predetermined Templates. The predetermined plurality of Templates may be Templates that were generated by other authors for other books . In an embodiment an author or reader may be able to provide a rating for a particular Template. In an embodiment an author may be able to sort and select a Template based on ratings. However in the case of re authorings the selection of Templates that are active for a book may be restricted by policy defined by the original author of the book.

When a Genre is selected one or more Intent may also be selected by the author via Context defined in the Template selected by the author for the Genre. The author may be presented with a list of specific Intents which can be selected to apply globally to the entire book or to a specific portion of the book. The Intents presented to the author may be specific to the Genre .

In an embodiment one or more Intent is automatically determined by EBS . A particular Intent can be automatically determined based on the Genre of the book . In addition a predetermined set of Intents may be provided to an author who can then select the Intent that the author wishes to associate with a book or a portion of a book for example by selecting a box for each Intent to be applied or by selecting a box for each Intent not to be applied.

The portion of the book with which the Context and hence Intent is associated is a Focus . A Focus may be the entire book or a portion of the book such as a particular word chapter paragraph passage list or illustration. In an embodiment a Focus is a physical location defined by a coordinate system defined in a book built by EBS . The coordinate system can be visually conceptualized as a transparent overlay over the book that defines one or more physical location within the book and is further discussed with respect to .

A Focus may also correspond to a logical location within a book based on predicates written over Objects that are defined in the book such as Contexts Intents or any other Objects including individual words defined as Objects in the book by the EBS . For example the set of all Contexts in the book sharing a common Intent may be a Focus the set of all Contexts that share other elements of the Context such as physical location of the reader may be a Focus or a set of words selected by an author in the book can also be defined as a Focus and each of these sets may be associated with a predicate . In other words a coordinate system may span both the x y coordinate and metadata layout regions of the book and may also span a region of the underlying object model of the book satisfying a predicate defined over the model. Thus a predicate can be used to define a group of Objects within the Template .

The Template Context and Intents associated with a particular Genre may be stored in a database which is part of the electronic book system . The database may be stored locally on the device through which an author is authoring a book or remotely on an external server on a computer readable medium .

The database of may be configured to evolve over time. For example when authors select a Genre and then select an Intent via the Context for the Template in effect for the Genre the electronic book system may record that information in a database. At periodic intervals the system may review the Templates and associated Intents which authors have been selecting for a Genre and select the Intents which a percentage of authors have selected for a particular Genre as Intents which are automatically provided when an author selects a Genre.

In an embodiment Genre may comprise a plurality of hierarchical categories. For example a Genre may comprise a first category that is a general category such as Children s Book. The Genre may further comprise additional sub categories such as Fiction Ages 4 6 and Girl. In this example the final Genre would be Children s book Fiction Ages 4 6 Girl. Each of the Genre sub categories may have different attributes and Schema or they may inherit the attributes of one or more parent category. In an embodiment the parent category defines default attributes for a Genre and sub categories are used to facilitate searching and sorting for the convenience of authors readers and other users.

An Intent reflects an intent of an author or reader with respect to the book. An author may select content which is associated with a particular Intent via a Focus so that when a reader selects an Intent or otherwise demonstrates intent near the Focus that content is provided to the reader. The author may select the Intent from a menu or list by using an input device such as a keyboard finger or a mouse. In addition in an embodiment an author or reader may indicate an Intent through keywords such as travel for the intent of travelling learnmore for the intent of learning more about a subject and meetup for a notification to the book for a local group to meet.

In an embodiment aspects of a Context of a Book can be used to limit the scope of searches by the EBS. The Context can be different for a specific reader depending on time location or other aspects of the Context which may have both static and dynamic parts. Dynamic parts of the Context such as ReaderLocation may be computed by computer code contained in the Template for the purpose of hydrating the Context.

Examples of Intents which are reader intent include Learn where a reader wishes to learn more about some of the contents of a book Acquire where a reader wishes to acquire items referred to in the book or associated with a portion of the book Author where a reader wishes to author additional material that can be added to a book Scribble where a reader wishes to record his impressions of a book or portion of a book to share with others through the book or a publically accessible communication forum such as a social networking website etc.

Examples of Intents which are author intent include Preview where an author selects portions of the book that are available to prospective readers free of charge Translate where an author offers readers to contribute to a translation of the book into a different language Sell where the author wishes to sell items associated with the book Accept Bid where the author wishes to accept bids for other persons to contribute content to the book etc. For example an author who once selected an Update Intent to have others contribute to the book may alter replace or delete the Intent from the Focus to signal that the author is no longer accepting bids for content associated with the Focus. This action may be tracked by EBS and the Intent associated with the Focus for that book may be automatically updated by the EBS when the reader next connects to the Internet.

By way of further example in a cookbook an author may associate an Intent of Learn with a Focus that selects a particular ingredient. The content that is associated with the Focus may be a video that explains facts about how the ingredient is used where the ingredient comes from or other information. The content may be created by the author or it may be provided by an external source such as a website. In some embodiments the content may be provided by a contributor other than the original author. If a cookbook includes preparation instructions the author may associate an Intent of Learn with a Focus of a particular preparation step which the author can then associate with the content of a video or text explanation of how that preparation step is conducted.

In an embodiment the association of content with an Intent and Focus can be performed automatically. In such an embodiment the EBS can analyze the text or graphic content of a Focus and associate content provided by the system re authors or the Internet. Content can include videos online encyclopedia or dictionary entries blogs scholarly articles websites where goods or services can be acquired audio files etc.

An author may be able to specify general categories of contents for a particular Intent to assist with the automatic association of a Focus with content. For example an author may specify that the EBS will use contents from a particular website online encyclopedia or other source to automatically associate with one or more Focus . In an embodiment content may be automatically selected by a smart selector as shown in .

In an embodiment the EBS may modify what contents are delivered and how they are delivered according to variables such as characteristics of a particular reader the capabilities of the electronic reader through which the book is being accessed the environment in which the electronic reader is located or the like. If an electronic reader has a weak connection through a communication element the EBS may provide text based information from an external source but not associated video or audio content. For example if an electronic reader does not have an audio output content containing audio may not be provided. If a reader is in a particular geographic location contents that are tailored to that location may be provided.

Similarly in various embodiments a reader may select which contents he would like to receive and which contents he would not like to receive. This can be done manually by selection of the reader or automatically based on reader behavior. For example if a reader never selects scholarly article content associated with the Intent of Learn such content may be hidden from view or may be displayed in a minimal format during future reading for that particular reader. In an embodiment a reader may be able to change settings associated with which content is displayed when the content selection has been determined automatically. In effect the reader is performing an act similar to the author by binding a new Context and hence Intent to the Focus . The fact that Context which includes Intent is a typed object makes this feasible by overriding author defined Intent with reader defined Intent. The settings may be recorded in Schema .

Other methods are available for a user to select how content is provided. For example a user may select commands such as Play which plays content Edit which allows the user to edit the content on a server if the user has been granted permission to do so Search which searches EBS and possibly other sources for similar content and Update which updates the content. Such commands may be part of an object model included in the system and consequently they may be restricted subject to object policy as discussed below.

In an embodiment event listener is included in EBS . Event listener may be configured to monitor content which is bound to a Focus . When the content bound to the Focus is stored in EBS such as media content the event listener may communicate with an external server to retrieve current information which is used to update the media content and the updated content may be incorporated into a book or the EBS .

In an embodiment an Intent can be specific to a particular demographic of reader as selected by an author or automatically by EBS . That is different readers may be presented with different content based on demographic information for the reader. For example in a children s book the content associated with a Focus may be different for an adult reader than for a child reader. The child may be presented with age appropriate content such as a sing along video while the adult may be presented with purchasing options for similar materials or Scribbles created by other adults.

Context may include one or more Intent ReaderLocation ReaderHistory and other similar contents. In an embodiment Context drives the content provided to a reader for a particular Focus in part because Context may include one or more Intent. A possible effect of this functionality is that for the same book different Context and hence content can be created for different readers of the same book or even the same reader satisfying a predicate test defined in the Template such as test of a reader s location capabilities of the reader etc.

For example a Context for a particular Focus that is a picture of a building may include an Intent of Learn a ReaderLocation of Spain and a ReaderHistory that indicates the reader has not yet read past the page in the book where the picture is located. If the reader indicates intent to learn more about the picture EBS may display bibliographic information about the building including that the name of the architect the year it was built where it is located etc. Because the reader is located in Spain EBS may provide the contents to the reader in Spanish.

In another embodiment an Intent and the content that is associated with the Intent may be specific to other variables such as time and date. For example in the case of a cookbook different ingredients may be available in different seasons so content related to those ingredients may change accordingly. In another example an Intent may be associated with content for live interaction with others which may only be available and thus only presented at certain times of day. Time and date selectors may be included in Context through the inclusion of active pieces of computer code such as JavaScript.

In an embodiment an EBS is configured to facilitate republishing of a book where the republishing includes content that is generated by one or more persons other than the original author. In such a system an original author may generate content to be displayed on an electronic book reader including text illustrations audio and video. The original author can then choose to copyright and publish the book as an original work and or configure the book to allow others re authors to contribute contents. The original author may be more than one person that collaborated on the original work.

While authoring the original book on EBS the original author may select an Intent which is configured to permit others to contribute content to the book or to submit bids to contribute content to the book. The Intent may be for general republishing which can open all contents of the book to contributions to from all potential re authors.

A republishing Intent may be specific to a particular section such as a Focus in a book and to a particular task to be completed. For example an original author may wish to allow one or more re author to contribute illustrations to a book. The original author could select one or more Focus to be illustrated by a re author such as a cover page and one or more illustration. In another embodiment an original author may be able to select the entire book to be illustrated by one or more re author such as in the case of a graphic novel.

Re authoring opportunities are not limited to providing illustrations. Examples of other content that may be provided by re authors include translation into one or more languages including braille additional chapters or other text content such as annotations rich media content such as audio or video files and contributions to the Schema including associating one or more Focus with Intent or content. Whether specific content can be contributed and the validation of such content is defined by permissions in one or more Template associated with the Genre for the book .

In another embodiment an original author may solicit bids for re authoring various aspects of the book including but not limited to the examples described above. In such an embodiment the author can select a particular re author based on various criteria including a rating of the re author a bid submitted by the re author or an exemplary submission.

The solicitation for bids may be included in the book itself as an Intent where a reader that is reading a book can express an intent to re author selected contents. The Intent of re authoring or soliciting a bid to re author a book may also be linked to a marketplace which may be an online marketplace where potential re authors can search for various re authoring opportunities. In an exemplary embodiment such functionality can be provided by embedding executable computer code such as JavaScript in the Template or the Intent .

The above concepts and embodiments will now be further explained with respect to methods for an EBS . Although the methods may be described with respect to a single embodiment one of skill in the art will recognize that various steps or elements of a particular method may or may not be included in embodiments according to the present invention. An embodiment need not perform all of the steps in an exemplary method and the steps are not restricted to the order in which they are presented.

In step the author can search Genres within the system to select the appropriate Genre for a book . The list of Genres may be provided as tiles or as a list. The EBS may provide additional information related to the Genre such as what default attributes are included in a particular Genre or information that is specific to a Template . In an embodiment the author can select a Template separately from a Genre and assign a particular Template and Genre to a book independently of one another.

In an embodiment EBS may present an author with Genre attributes which an author can select according to his preferences. The system may then present the author with the Genre that comprises the attributes selected by the author.

In an embodiment EBS may present Genre attributes separately from the name of a Genre and is configured to allow the name of a Genre to be changed after it is selected. That is EBS may permit an author to select the Genre attributes including Schema separately from the name of the Genre. The name of the Genre may be changeable after a Template has been selected after an initial Genre has been selected or at any point in the process including after a book has been published.

If an author wishes to categorize a book in a Genre that is not currently maintained by the system in step the system may accept an input for a new Genre. In such an embodiment in step the author can propose attributes of the Genre including a default Template to be used or modified or attributes of Schema . Whether the proposal is accepted by the EBS may depend on Permissions defined by the EBS.

The proposed attributes may become part of a Template that is associated with a particular Genre. Associating a new Template with a Genre may occur automatically or based on the input of an administrator or a plurality of users as defined by Permissions defined for the Genre .

In step EBS provides business intelligence on the Genre . The business intelligence may be intelligence that is collected by or supplied to the system. An EBS may provide or be associated with a marketplace for selling electronic books and services associated with electronic books.

When an EBS comprises such a marketplace the system may collect information related to purchases and the value of the services in terms of both monetary and perceived value including ratings supplied by past purchasers and sellers. The EBS may also collect information related to quantities and dates of transactions and analyze the data in order to provide relevant information to an author or reader regarding re authoring or purchasing opportunities. Business intelligence comprises such information and subsequent analysis of the information.

In various embodiments business intelligence may include the following information 1 What steps in the process of authoring a book authors have difficulty with 2 Whether print or electronic book publication are a preferred form for a category such as a particular Genre or authors with certain characteristics 3 How long steps in the process of creating a book including creating an entire book take 4 How many copies of books are sold in particular forums 5 Whether integration with external entities such as social networking systems correlates with increased sales 6 What are the most popular services within the system 7 Summary reports across Genres and markets based on purchasing information of books for that market and Genre 8 Summary reports of popular Intents within a Genre 9 Summary reports within a Genre of actions taken by users that show significant engagement for example a buying action taken by a user base a Scribble etc.

In an embodiment an EBS may be able to assign a value which may correspond to revenue to an action and then provide data sorted accordingly as business intelligence . For example a user may be able to sort categories of Context including Intents to determine which Intents or elements of Context correlate to sales how frequently certain Intents or elements of Context are used etc. The examples of business intelligence listed above are illustrative and an embodiment may use one or more of the above examples or other types of similar business intelligence.

Because EBS is an integrated publishing system it may keep track of all of this data and feed it back to authors and the system in order to make improvements. For example if authors in a particular Genre show a preference for a particular book characteristic that characteristic may become a default value for a Template in the Genre. The system can correlate variables in a book or authoring process with success in the marketplace and provide an author with relevant data to improve the author s business position. EBS may provide a marketplace and may be highly integrated with one or more external marketplace in order to collect and distribute the business intelligence . Furthermore electronic books may include code and virtual memory configured to collect and store business intelligence and send it back to the system over the Internet.

In step EBS may provide an author with a Template . The Template may be specific to the Genre and may be subject to modification by the author according to the attributes that the author wishes to include. As stated above in step the author may propose modifications to the Genre and Schema .

In step the EBS may search and inform authors of re authoring opportunities within a Genre or other category. The re authoring opportunities may be organized by a category such as Genre or other categories such as a particular language for translation a style or type of illustration a field of expertise a type of media etc. In an exemplary implementation this may be done by the EBS searching through the Intent specified by an author by marking a specific Focus as available for re authoring.

According to step the EBS may send or receive offers for re authoring opportunities. Offers may be sent to external sources such as social networking systems or systems for facilitating work on a contract basis such as ELANCE or received from such a source. In an embodiment the offers can be accessed on a portable computing device such as a cellular telephone or tablet computer through wireless communication.

In an embodiment an EBS may include a marketplace for re authoring opportunities so that sending and receiving offers may be conducted between a book that is being created by an author and the system s marketplace or between a potential re author and the system s marketplace. The offers may include information related to attributes of the re authoring opportunity such as price ratings of the buyer or seller time constraints written descriptions of the need or service samples etc.

In step the content is defined in the EBS . Content which may be defined in this step includes Schema one or more Intent one or more Focus and media content . A system may provide an author with options to select portions of the book to designate as a Focus and further provide a set of options for selecting Intents or media content to be bound to the Focus.

When a user makes selections the system can then bind the Intents media content or other content to the Focus . The resulting relationship is reflected in Schema . Because an Intent is a component of Context content may be bound to a Focus in the Schema through an associated Context.

As discussed above defining the content of the EBS may be conducted automatically by the system or manually by an author or re author. In step the system binds content to Context since the Context specifies aspects such as Intent code that can execute against reader attributes such as ReaderLocation etc. The content may be content automatically identified or generated by the system that the system deems to best match the Context active for the Focus active at that time for a reader.

In step the EBS publishes and restricts access to portions of a book subject to Permissions . The access restrictions may be applied based on default settings or as selected by an author to reflect intent to allow re authors to submit content to a book. Subsequent to step a book may be copyrighted and distributed.

Optional step involves sending updates to external sources such as social networking systems. Embodiments of the present invention are configured to have a high level of compatibility with social networking or other similar websites for distributing and collecting information. Information sent in step may include the fact that a book has been completed opportunities for re authoring portions of a book previews of a portion of the book links to sources for purchasing a copy of a book and other information that is relevant to the marketing and distribution of a book.

In an embodiment a portion of a book may be published to an external source such as a social networking system. The publication may include sending a portion of the book to the external source or providing a link at the external location that links back to EBS . The portion of the book may be selected by an author by the system or by a reader. By handling the publication the EBS can collect and provide additional business intelligence associated with the publication.

For example an author may select a passage in a book which may be a Focus and select an Intent to share that portion with a social networking system. The EBS then sends the selected portion of the book to the social networking system in a form that can be displayed by the social networking system. The sent book portion may include computer code for tracking information such as the number of times the portion is viewed which can be sent back to the system and provided to the author. Alternatively the external source may provide a link back to an interface provided by the EBS which displays the book portion.

In another example EBS may provide an API to allow external sources to interact with the system. Such an API may be configured to locate content within a book that matches a query from the external source and provide the content through an interface provided by either the EBS or the external source. The query may be generated based on a user input received by the external source such as a search term. The API may be further configured to display the portion of the book which may include rich media content through an interface provided by the external source.

In step the EBS notifies a user of new content. When the subject of the notification is a reader the information provided to the reader may be in a category specified by the reader. For example if a reader has specified that he is interested in a particular Genre or books by a particular author only information related to that Genre or author is presented to the reader. In an embodiment a user may specify one or more filter to apply to the new content so that only new content that is of interest to that particular reader is displayed.

When the subject of the notification is a re author the information provided to the re author may also be in a category specified by the re author. For example if a re author has specified that he is interested in opportunities to submit illustrations for a particular Genre of book the EBS may filter the new content so that only information related to such opportunities are provided to the re author.

In step the EBS provides a Focus to a reader. The Focus may be provided along with an indicator that there is Context bound to the Focus. The indicator may be highlighting different coloration shadowing or other similar visual effects a window a sound or the like. In an embodiment the visual or audio component that indicates that a Focus is present may appear when the portion of the book in which the Focus is located appears on the screen of an electronic book reader or when a reader passes the target of a pointing device such as a mouse or a finger over the Focus.

The information provided to a user with respect to the Focus may include the contents of the Focus text summarizing the contents of the Focus visual information such as an icon indicating a category of Focus such as video or audio clip a sample of the Focus or the like. In an embodiment a user may select options on whether and how the EBS indicates the presence of a Focus and selections can be made based on the type of Context or content that is bound to a Focus.

Default behavior for indicating the presence and content of a Focus may vary based on the nature and size of a Focus and preferences of a reader. For example a Focus that is a chapter of a book is bound to an Intent to solicit translations to another language may be indicated with a minimal visual effect while a Focus that is a definition of a particular term may be presented in its entirety.

In step the EBS detects a user s interest in the content associated with the Focus . The system may detect an input from an input device included in an electronic book reader which is associated with a reader s desire to view the content. Examples include selecting a button associated with the content selecting the Focus and a particular keystroke or gesture that is associated with the action of viewing content.

In an embodiment there may be a step of viewing a portion or summary of the content before viewing all of the content associated with a Focus . For example the EBS may present a brief description of the content which a reader can view before choosing to view the full contents. This can be useful when the contents are large such as a high resolution video or involve actions such as accessing the Internet or launching a new application. This can also be useful when the content may be objectionable to certain viewers such as a photograph of a battlefield depicting casualties.

In step the content associated with a Focus is provided by the EBS . The manner in which the content is provided may depend on the capabilities or circumstances of the electronic book reader on which the book is being viewed. When the book reader is not capable of connecting to the Internet through either the lack of capability or connection content from the Internet may not be displayed or provided. In another example if the content is highly dependent on color and the reader is not capable of displaying colors the content may be provided as a text description or not provided at all.

The EBS may provide content that is stored within the system itself such as on a computer readable medium . The system may also provide content that is stored externally such as on the Internet an external media server or a similar hardware device. In an embodiment the content may be provided through a separate application such as a video player picture viewer or Internet browser. The system may provide all of the necessary modules and components for providing the forms of rich media content provided through a Focus . In an embodiment when content is provided from an external system such content is stored temporarily on a computer readable medium such as a memory in the EBS.

In step the EBS may accept inputs from a reader. One type of input is text or media content related to a reader s impressions of a portion of a book which can be referred to as a Scribble. A Scribble may be a reader s written or recorded notes which can be recorded as audio or video content. Thus a Scribble may be a category of text content or media content .

A Scribble may be private to a particular reader. In another embodiment a Scribble can be shared with others either by incorporating the Scribble into the book or delivering the Scribble to an external location such as an author s website or social networking system.

In an embodiment the Scribble can be provided to a portion of EBS which is configured to display Scribbles. For instance the system may include parts that are specific to a particular book author or other logical grouping which may be configured to accept and display Scribbles from various readers. The system part that provides Scribbles may be selectable to display Scribbles from a reader or group of readers or to display Scribbles associated with a particular Focus .

For example a user of an EBS according to such an embodiment can elect to view Scribbles that are provided by a particular reading club social group or individual. In addition the user can elect to view all Scribbles for the user s favorite passage in a book to see other users impressions of that particular passage.

In another embodiment the Scribble may be an aspect of re authoring. In this embodiment an author may solicit for annotations to a book such as through an Intent . The solicitation may be directed to a particular user or group of users such as a professor or experts in a particular field. In an embodiment a user may offer his Scribbles for sale in a marketplace.

Another reader input which can be accepted in step may be a rating. The rating may be in the form of text a value such as an integer value or bivalent data such as like dislike. A rating or feedback may be applied to an author a book a Focus content associated with a Focus services provided by a re author a Scribble a search result and the like.

In an embodiment a rating can be a part of Context . In such a case the rating may be used by the EBS to select which content to display to a reader. In addition the rating can be used by the system beyond the contents of a single book . For instance ratings may be used to recommend or display books authors services etc. to users of the system. Ratings may also be used to provide or deny opportunities to potential re authors to adjust the value of goods or services to create business intelligence to affect the results displayed by a search and other reasons.

In an embodiment a rating can be used to adjust schema for search module that is tailored to a user. That is the schema for a search module may be adjusted based on a plurality of ratings received from a reader. For example when a user indicates a preference for a particular item such as a content book or author the search module may adjust its schema for that particular user to include results that are adjusted according to the preference. In an embodiment an EBS may provide a user with the ability to view and directly adjust schema in the search module .

In step the EBS incorporates the inputs that were input in step . The inputs may be incorporated by being written to a computer readable medium or by adjusting a value stored in a computer readable medium. Depending on the nature of the input the input may be included in a book s contents a user s profile a remote server an external source such as a social networking system an electronic book reader etc. In an embodiment when reader contents are included the system may perform the steps of detecting new content and of notifying users of new content.

In step a user is provided with information related to a Genre . The information may be provided based on a user s selection of a particular Genre from a set of Genres. For example the user interface shown in includes a list of Genres on the left side of the interface where the Genres are sorted by the category of most popular. Additional methods of sorting include alphabetical favorites and keyword.

In step a user is provided with business intelligence related to a selected Genre . The business intelligence may include information on the market for the Genre such as average sale quantity and price for books in the Genre the availability of re authors to the Genre readership activity in a social networking system etc. In an embodiment a user may view Genres sorted by various aspects of business intelligence. An example of business intelligence which is displayed to a user can be seen in the graphs and charts shown in .

If the user is a re author step may provide the re author with business intelligence on what opportunities are currently available for re authoring tasks such as illustrations translation providing media content and the like.

In step the EBS provides a user with information related to a Genre . The information may include various aspects of one or more Template associated with a Genre such as the size of a screen contents and Intents that are available whether or not illustrations are to be included etc. The information may be selected to help a user choose the format or Template that is most suitable to the user s intent. In addition the user may be provided with a tutorial which may be a book on how to author or re author within a Genre or Template which can include all of the attributes of a book according to the present invention.

In step the EBS may bind Context including one or more Intent and various content to a Focus in a book . As discussed above the Context including Intent and one or more Focus may be selected by an author or re author as well as conducted automatically. In an embodiment an Intent may reflect intent to submit a portion of a book for re authoring.

In step the book may be published. The step of publishing a book may include recording a copyright for the book where the copyright is selected from a set of copyrights which reflect different republishing re authoring and revenue sharing models. Publishing may also include submitting a version of a book for sale in various marketplaces including a marketplace within EBS and to the Library of Congress. In an embodiment a book may be published and republished a plurality of times when content is added or revised by re authors or the original author.

Additional components of step may include actions with regard to publishing a hard copy of a book . For example EBS may provide a user with options for printing and distributing hard copies of a book that was created in the system. Options may include a list of potential printing and distributing resources which may be sorted by rating.

In an embodiment an electronic book comprises sufficient data including objects and relationships to create a printed hard copy of the book directly from the electronic copy. Information included in Schema may include formatting information such as font color margins and other information beyond the minimum information necessary to display the electronic book on a display screen. In an embodiment such formatting information may not be included in some copies of the book such as copies distributed to social networking websites. Whether or not to include the formatting information may be based on an Intent specified by an author.

A hard copy of a book published through EBS may comprise elements which reflect rich media content and author Intents which are present in an electronic copy of the book. For example a hard copy may include one or more Uniform Resource Locator URL for a website that includes the rich content. In an embodiment access to the content may require registration or forms of authentication establishing that a user owns a hard copy of the book. For example hard copies of books may include unique identifiers as proof of purchase which permit a reader to access the rich content. In another example a reader can receive an electronic file through email or other means that includes the content or a link to a resource providing the content. Through these methods a reader of a hard copy of a book may experience the same content as the reader of an electronic copy.

In step the EBS may submit a book or portions of a book to reviewers book clubs various websites and social networking systems. Information submitted in step may include re authoring opportunities and a source to receive a submission may be selected on the basis of facilitating re authoring.

In step the EBS may receive bids for re authoring portions of a book. The bids may be submitted to the author or book owner along with information related to the bid and the bidder including one or more rating sample value information etc. The author or owner may then choose whether to accept or deny a bid. If a bid is not accepted the system may transmit the bid denial to the bidder who may then submit a revised bid and so forth. In an embodiment the system is configured to facilitate communication between an author and a re author during the bid process for example by providing details within the system and a forum for direct communication.

In step a republished book or portions of a republished book which include portions not found in the original book may be submitted to external sources in a manner similar to step .

In step the EBS may monitor feedback and ratings associated with a published book and relay that information back to an owner author or re author. Feedback and ratings may be included in business intelligence .

The smart selector can automate various aspects of the content selection process as explained above for example by acquiring content from the Internet based on parameters selected by an author. Default parameters for smart selectors may be set for a particular Genre or Template .

Re publishing is facilitated by EBS . However because a user may use the system to create and publish a book which may be commercially distributed a copyright scheme to accommodate elements of re authoring and republishing is desirable. Although conventional copyright systems such as a Creative Commons License include elements to accommodate republishing EBS may include the following elements which are not present in conventional systems 1 a revenue return model for the licensor and licensees who produce derivative works may be explicitly specified and part of the terms of the license and 2 a mechanism by which an author can designate portions of the book to have more restrictive licensing. Such elements allow an author especially an original author to preserve intent including an Intent .

In an exemplary system the Intents are part of an author s copyright claim while the underlying schema for the book is the property of EBS and is licensed to the author under for example a CC BY ND license as specified in the Creative Commons License. Elements of a copyright system and permissions model as described herein may be provided to users by EBS .

One challenge in a republishing model is how to preserve the intent of an author which may be the original author. To aid this as illustrated by an embodiment of EBS defines and enforces an object policy that may be defined by the author on the object model defined by the Template .

An object policy interacts with the object model that ensures that the intent of the author is not being violated. In such a system all principals including an original author a re author a reader and other users are security principals. In an embodiment EBS is a security principal. Concepts in computer security such as groups or claims can be used to define security principals and their permissions.

An object policy may include at least one Object which is identified by an Object ID . An Object may be a word sentence paragraph chapter illustration or any other portion of a book including an entire book or Focus . Furthermore a third party application or code which may represent a person such as an editor may be an Object in the system.

Attributes of an Object such as the ranking of a person or code can be used as claims by the EBS in deciding whether the security principal authenticated as that person or code can gain a specific Permission including the right to re author some or parts of a book. For example an ELANCE ID along with a Claim from ELANCE that the person has high ranking may be used to filter or reject re authoring requests from a re author. In another example digital code signing can be used to provide identity for a piece of computer code for the purpose of associating rights for the said piece of code to execute as part of a book e.g. a multimedia player.

Each Object is identified with an Object ID which is unique to every Object within a book. The relationships of the Objects are designated in a coordinate system which effectively maps out the contents of a book as described above with respect to . By defining Objects in this way EBS provides sufficient information to format a book according to a plurality of electronic and hard copy formats and to allow an author a high level of flexibility in implementing various features of EBS . One of skill in the art will recognize that the elements of object policy are also elements of EBS and may be included in or interact with other parts of the system.

Each Object is associated with one or more Permission . A Permission may be a permission to edit author re author share publish accept bids for or distribute an Object though the EBS may be allowed to extend the set of permissions as appropriate over time. EBS may integrate with third party platforms such as social networking systems. As such an object policy may be designed to allow easy integration with social groups to restrict in some embodiments data sharing and group membership with the group by specifying a Permission within the infrastructure which then integrates with the third party platform. This may be performed by specifying an action and a Permission for Objects created by the action.

A Permission may be subject to a claim . In an embodiment the authorization required to access an Object can be defined by claim . In an embodiment a claim is an authenticated attribute of a requester as stated by an authority such as FACEBOOK GOOGLE ELANCE etc. that EBS communicates with. For example in the case of FACEBOOK a claim might be that a person with FACEBOOK ID X is a member of a specified FACEBOOK group. In this example in order to access an Object in EBS the person has to be a member of the above FACEBOOK group.

Accordingly a claim may be issued by an authority and may be specific to certain subjects. For example a subject of a claim may be an antivirus program which is established by a third party system. In another example the subject may be an editor as established by EBS through attributes such as one or more rating or other aspects of a profile of a particular editor as maintained by EBS .

EBS may check to see on access if a person is a member of a particular group before granting a Permission to the Object in the EBS . Multiple Permissions are possible. For example write permissions for portions of a book may only be granted to subjects who an external source identifies as illustrators and have rating greater than a specified value. Such information can be used as a filter by an author.

Object policy may also include one or more Verifier . Even though access to an Object has been successfully granted through a claim the Object passes through a Verifier to ensure that it meets a set of criteria before being finally included in the book . The criteria can be quality as defined by the author who may be the Verifier . In an embodiment EBS will not finalize a re authoring transaction including payment until the new contents have been verified by one or more Verifier . The EBS can also act as a Verifier .

In an embodiment the verification may be performed by a Delegate which can be specified by EBS or an author. In such an embodiment a Delegate is a Verifier . A Delegate may be EBS a third party application such as antivirus software or a person such as an editor that is designated by the author.

For example consider a policy where a person is allowed access to a part of a book only if an authorizer grants access. In this example the authorizer issues a claim to the requester. Next an access control on the Object checks to determine whether the authorizer was allowed to authorize access and then to see if the requester has the specified claim . In EBS such a method can be used to implement delegation by the author to Delegates such as editors or other trusted subordinates for the ability to selectively use external services to edit or add to a book .

In an exemplary embodiment if an author wants to ensure that his original illustrations are not changed the following permissions method may be implemented as illustrated by . In step an author defines a Focus which may for example span an illustration. In this case the illustration is an Object . The illustration Object may not have image content it may be merely a placeholder. In step the author grants a Permission to the Object which may be for example to call an Update method on the illustration Object only to the author.

If on the other hand if the author wants to have an illustrator fill in an illustration for him then a different permission granting method may be implemented. An exemplary method may include the following steps as illustrated in . The steps are explained with respect to an example of updating an illustration.

In step the author defines a Focus . In step an Object is created. In this example the Object is an illustration which does not include image data.

In step the author may designate a Permission to grant permissions to call Update whether to permit the Object to be updated to a selected set of security principals in the system.

In step the principals create independent variants of content for the illustration. In an embodiment the content created by one illustrator is not changeable by another since the separate illustrations are separate Objects in the system and by default are changeable only by the creator.

In step EBS shows the author all the variants by displaying a selectable list of contents at a particular Focus and information about the creator which may include a rating or ranking of the creator.

In step the author as Verifier selects the final illustration. In step EBS notifies the author and the illustrator of the choice. In step EBS handles financial transactions associated with the illustration.

In step the author decides if he wants methods such as Update which may be an Intent on the illustration Object locked down by a Permission or not. In an embodiment default values for Permissions are specified in the Template . When the Update method is not locked down the book can get newer and newer illustrations over its lifetime subject to an Intent.

If the Author wishes to keep control of the illustration pipeline then in step EBS allows the author to define a verification step before new Intent is surfaced. Examples of verification steps are where the author as Verifier or a Delegate where the Delegate may be EBS a piece of code or a third party program or person selected by the EBS previews the Object before approving the update.

In an embodiment more than one Delegate may be linked. For example a virus checker may be a Delegate for all pipelines. Delegates can also be linked to form a trusted pipeline in the sense of Boebert and Kain in order to ensure a one way flow through a set of Verifiers .

An object of these aspects of the invention is that of the author granting permission to update an Object subject to verification. Multiple verifications are possible for a single Object such as virus scanning and reviewing for content appropriateness.

Every Object may have a Verifier bound to it that can be invoked to verify proposed changes to the Object even if the access to the Object is granted. As a result EBS can ensure that even if the author contracts with an illustrator to provide new illustrations the illustrations are reviewed before being published into the book.

The following is a simplified example of how the policy system defined in EBS allows author intents to be respected and for a viable republishing industry to develop. Every Object defined in EBS including Template can be locked down or opened by the object policy using access control on the event listener method calls and other properties of the underlying Objects. If the author does not wish to permit republishing for the entire book then he can lock down the entire book Object.

In an embodiment Templates are also access controlled Objects and this is how EBS controls the form of a Genre for consistency. An exemplary method for Template editing shown in which is similar to the example above is as follows 

In step a principal indicates a desire to update a Template . In step specific Objects in the Templates which have been proposed for change are marked as in a difference list. In step a Verifier or Delegate as defined in the parent Template is called. If the Verifier fails anywhere the Template edit fails.

In step if the Verifier succeeds a notification is sent to the Template owner. Since the template is an Object it has an owner such as an author. In step the Template is updated either as a Template override or as a new Template that inherits characteristics from the parent. In an embodiment if the verification in step was not performed by the Template owner the Template owner may perform a final verification of the changes before the Template is updated.

First EBS checks to see if the Object has a Permission indicating that it can be edited by the requestor. If the EBS determines that the Object is not editable by the requestor then access is denied. If the EBS determines that the Object is editable by the requestor then the EBS may callback the Verifier for an Object update.

A Permission may be refined enough to be specific for a single Object . Methods known in the art can be used to provide this access control including access control lists capability models or claims based access controls.

The following tables illustrate examples of how permissions may be applied by EBS in some embodiments.

Post a portion of a book on a page in a social group. For example post book parts post Scribbles on a book post a resume as an e book or application reference on a third party system.

Post part of a book on ELANCE with the intent to improve it by adding illustrations that will use EBS to post back this is a request response flow.

For an input or output book part ensure that an Object being imported undergoes a virus scan and also an editorial review for content by an editor who is skilled in the art of editing for the Genre .

The following elements may be present in a revenue sharing model that is applied to EBS . An author may receive a share of revenues from a republished work incorporating content created by a re author based on either the number of copies sold or the monetary value of the sales. In an embodiment copies of the variant book which includes content added by the re author count towards the sales rank of the original author in the same metric fraction that is negotiated for revenue. An original author can negotiate either of the revenue models with re authors. A benefit of using the number of copies sold as a metric is to normalize across markets with different currencies.

In an embodiment EBS receives a share of the sales but is biased towards a derivative works model in the sense that a smaller fraction is taken off the top for CC BY SA vs. CC BY ND and where the fraction is inversely proportional to the proportion if CC BY ND parts relative to CC BY SA parts of the book.

An invention according to the above described embodiments may provide one or more of the following attributes. In such a system an author is afforded a high degree of control over the creation editing and publication of an electronic or hard copy book. An author may specify one or more intents with respect to the book and the system will facilitate those intents before and after a book is published. Re authoring portions of the book is possible so that persons other than the author can contribute content to later versions of a book. As a result a book according to the present invention may be continually updated and republished over time to stay current and otherwise evolve. And integration with third party systems including social networking websites allows an author to access a plurality of marketing channels.

