---

title: Bag cooler employing a multi-spike adapter and converter
abstract: A system for dispensing fluids wherein a support structure holds bulk fluid contained within a bag that is transferred from the bag to an enclosed chamber in a dispensing base, from which chamber the fluid is dispensed, via a puncturing device utilizing multiple spikes. After dispensing air pressure in the enclosed chamber is equalized with the air pressure acting on the bulk fluid by at least one of the spikes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08464906&OS=08464906&RS=08464906
owner: International Packaging Innovations, LLC
number: 08464906
owner_city: Tecumseh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120413
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 691 974 filed Mar. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 177 096 and currently pending the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a system for dispensing fluids. In particular the present invention relates to a fluid dispensing system wherein a bagged fluid such as water is dispensed via a puncturing device utilizing multiple spikes.

Conventional domestic fluid dispensers used primarily for providing heated or cooled water are usually free standing devices which dispense sterilized or mineral water from large rigid water bottles. The rigid water bottles have a large body portion and a narrow neck portion having a mouth opening and are coupled to the water dispenser by inverting the bottle and positioning the mouth of the bottle in the chamber of the water dispenser. Air introduced into the water bottle through the mouth allows water to be dispensed from the inverted bottle until the water level in the chamber reaches the mouth of the bottle. Since the water bottle is rigid once the water level in the chamber reaches the mouth of the bottle no more air can enter the bottle so water remaining in the inverted bottle is retained in the bottle due to the difference between the air pressure external to the inverted bottle and the air pressure inside the bottle. Water is then dispensed from the chamber through a conduit attached to a valve at the opposite end from the chamber. When the level of water in the chamber falls below the mouth of the water bottle air enters the water bottle allowing water to flow from the bottle until the water level in the chamber again reaches the mouth of the bottle.

Although conventional domestic water dispensers are widely used they are deficient in a number of respects. First water bottles used in the conventional domestic water dispenser usually contain a large quantity of sterilized water typically on the order of about 5 gallons. Due to the weight and size of a bottle holding that amount of water it is often difficult to invert and properly locate the mouth of the bottle in the chamber without spilling a quantity of the water.

Second to prevent water from continuously flowing from the water bottle while the water bottle is inverted the water bottles used with such water dispensers are fabricated from a thick rigid plastic material that can hold a vacuum without collapsing. Due to their cost the water bottles are usually resterilized and reused after an initial use. As a result the cost of shipping the empty water bottle back to the supplier for sterilization and reuse are adsorbed by the consumer through increased water costs.

Third in order for the mouth of the water bottle to be positioned in the chamber of the cooler the water bottles must have a neck as described above. The presence of the neck however increases the difficulty in sterilizing the water bottles since the neck may limit the ability of the sterilizing agents to reach all the interior parts of the bottle even when large quantities of sterilizing agents are used. While the use of heat sterilization may overcome this problem to some extent it is generally not possible to use heat sterilization on plastic bottles. Although sterilization using ultraviolet light is possible ultraviolet light sterilization may lead to an incomplete result. Particularly troublesome once the bottle is inverted into the fluid dispenser the outside of the neck of the bottle can contact the fluid and it is very difficult to maintain this area of the bottle sterile.

Fourth with the necessity of sterilizing the water bottles after each use over time the rigid plastic water bottles may develop cracks or holes. If such failures occur while the water bottle is inverted in the water dispenser air will enter the water bottle and allow water to flow uncontrollably from the mouth of the water bottle allowing the chamber to eventually over flow. This water over flow can expose the purchaser s premises to the risk of water damage.

One solution to the problem of potential chamber overflow and the necessity to make bottles of rigid materials to allow for the pressure differential described above is to add a valve in the flow path between the bottle and the chamber. Such a valve allows the flow of water out of the bottle to be closed off so that the chamber does not overflow. Such a valve can operate automatically opening and closing depending on the level of the fluid in the chamber

A more recent development in fluid dispensing systems has been to utilize bags rather than bottles to transport and dispense water from an otherwise conventional fluid dispensing system office cooler . Such a system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 940 057 to Macler et al. for example the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The Macler application offers a device that dispenses fluid from a disposable or recyclable bag and thereby affords some of the benefits associated therewith.

As described in the Macler application however to overcome the problem of over flowing the chamber since a collapsible bag cannot hold a reduced pressure headspace as a rigid bottle does the device described therein uses a vent to permit and control flow between the bag and the chamber. The vent runs parallel to the cooler s vertical axis into which water flows when water is dispensed until the water level in the vent is level with the water level in the cooler. Such a vent straw equalizes the pressure within the bag with the ambient pressure.

Other options for addressing the pressure buildup may also address issues left unsolved by the vent straw. First the vent straw opens into the ambient air. This breach of the bag s structural isolation from the surrounding environment can present problems. For one it presents a break in an otherwise sealed system which can open the water path to contamination. Dirt liquids or airborne contaminants can enter the water through the vent. Such contamination is generally unlikely but in many water systems sealed water paths are desired. It is therefore desirable to solve the pressure flow problem with a device that discourages contaminants from entering the bag and fluid from exiting the bag at occasions other than dispensation.

The following is a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The sole purpose of this section is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Described herein among other things is a liquid storage and dispensation device comprising a fluid dispensing system comprising a dispensing base an enclosed chamber positioned interior to the base a support external to the dispensing base the support providing support for a bag containing fluid a plurality of spikes situated to puncture the bag when the bag is supported by the support wherein the plurality of spikes provides continuity of air and fluid flow between the chamber and the bag upon puncturing the bag and wherein at least two spikes in the plurality of spikes protrude to different extents into the enclosed chamber and a dispensing valve connected to the enclosed chamber allowing for dispensing from the enclosed chamber.

In an embodiment when the dispensing valve is closed the fluid in the bag will flow through a first spike in the plurality of spikes into the enclosed chamber and air in the enclosed chamber will flow through a second spike in the plurality of spikes into the bag. In a related embodiment the maximum volume rate of fluid flow through the first spike into the chamber is limited to a value less than the maximum net volume rate of fluid flow out of the chamber through the dispensing valve taking into account the maximum volume rate of fluid flow into the chamber through the fluid passage from the bag so that as fluid is dispensed out from the chamber through the valve at the maximum net volume rate of flow the pressure in the chamber is reduced below the pressure external to the fluid dispensing system at the location of the end of the second spike opposite from the end of the second spike located in the chamber.

In another embodiment the plurality of spikes are positioned in the support adjacent a point of local elevation minimum thereof. Another embodiment provides that the support is fabricated from a plastic resin material.

Another embodiment further comprises a bag containing fluid supported by the support and essentially sealed about each of the plurality of the spikes each of the plurality of the spikes having punctured a wall of the bag. An embodiment of that bag is fabricated from a single layer polyethylene sheet. In another embodiment of that bag prior to the puncturing of the bag by each of the plurality of the spikes a protective outer layer enclosing the bag is removed from about the bag.

Described herein is also a fluid dispensing system for dispensing fluid from a collapsible bag comprising a support being capable of supporting the collapsible bag during dispensing of fluid from the bag and having a supporting surface with a point that can be oriented as a local minimum in elevation the supporting surface defining a first space adjacent to a first side of the supporting surface and a second space on a second side of the supporting surface opposite the first side and a plurality of spikes wherein each spike of the plurality of spikes is connected to the support projecting essentially from the point of local elevation minimum and projecting into the first space and includes a fluid inlet on the exterior surface of the each spike the fluid inlet being connected to a passage internal to the each spike through which fluid or air can flow between the first space and the second space and wherein at least two spikes in the plurality of spikes protrude to different extents into the second space wherein when the fluid dispensing system is in use the first space and the second space are sealed together such that the first space and the second space are in fluid communication only through the passages.

Also disclosed herein is a fluid dispensing system comprising a dispensing base an enclosed chamber positioned interior to the base a support means for supporting a bag containing fluid external to the dispensing base a means for allowing the fluid in the bag to flow into the enclosed chamber a means for allowing the return of air into the bag from the enclosed chamber and a means for dispensing fluid from the enclosed chamber to a space external to the dispensing base.

Also disclosed herein is a bag from which fluid is to be dispensed comprising a non rigid outer surface a fluid sealed inside the non rigid outer surface wherein the non rigid outer surface is sufficiently weak to be penetrated by all of a plurality of dispensing spikes when the bag is dropped on the spikes from a height of no more than a few inches and wherein the non rigid outer surface forms a seal about each of the plurality of dispensing spikes when penetrated by the spikes.

It is understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that while this disclosure focuses on water storage and delivery it pertains to any liquid that needs to be transported in bulk kept free from contamination and dispensed in smaller quantities than that in which it is transported.

It is also understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that while this disclosure principally describes a multi spike adapter which comprises two spikes any number of spikes may be used to achieve the purposes of dispensation and pressure release.

Turning now to a fluid dispensing system in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention is shown which can be used to dispense fluid from a collapsible bag . This embodiment comprises an enclosed chamber into which fluid from a collapsible bag can flow and from which fluid can be dispensed from a tap . A support rests on top of a dispensing base and is used to support the bag . In an embodiment in which the support is capable of holding a fluid the fluid dispensing system can operate to dispense a fluid that has been placed directly into the support however a preferred method to supply fluid to the fluid dispensing system is through use of a sealed bag containing fluid. When the fluid is contained in a sealed bag there are significant advantages in terms of maintaining the quality of the fluid. Additionally when the fluid is supplied in a sealed bag the support itself need not be constructed to contain the fluid but need only support the bag containing the fluid. In an embodiment using the support to support a bag of fluid rather than actually to contain fluid there is significant latitude in the design of the support .

In the embodiment shown in the support has a collar that extends into the chamber . A gasket such as a malleable o ring circumscribes and is connected to the collar and fits snuggly against a wall of the chamber . In an alternate embodiment the gasket is connected to and generally fixed in place with respect to the chamber . In either case when the support is positioned adjacent to the cooler base the collar extends into the chamber and the gasket fits snuggly between the chamber and the collar forming a generally airtight seal. It should be understood that the purpose of the gasket as shown is to enclose the chamber and that more complex systems can be designed to achieve the same effect. For example in an embodiment where the chamber is separable from the cooler base both the chamber and the support are sealed with separate gaskets to the cooler base .

In the embodiment shown in placement of the support onto the cooler base with the collar extending into the cooler base as is shown in creates an air tight seal between the support and the cooler base as a result of the snug fit created by the gasket . Placement of the support onto the cooler base as shown in encloses the chamber and separates the air space of the chamber from the ambient air space external to the support and external to the cooler base . Once the chamber is so enclosed fluid including air or water communication between the two air spaces i.e. inside and outside the chamber is only possible through either one of the dispensation spike or the vent spike .

In an embodiment the combined weight of the fluid and the bag containing the fluid is sufficient to cause the spikes and to puncture the bag once a sealed bag of fluid is placed on the support and on the spikes and . In alternate embodiments it may be necessary to exert an additional force on the bag or the spike in order to enable the spikes and to puncture the bag . In an example such an additional force may be exerted on the bag on a side of the bag generally opposite the spikes and . In another example a spike and that is movable relative to the cooler base may be forced against the bag by any of various mechanisms including a spring compressed against the cooler base . In a preferred embodiment the additional force is obtained by dropping the bag onto the spikes and from a height of about six inches. In various alternative embodiments the height from which the bag is dropped onto the spikes and may vary significantly and may be as great as several feet.

In a preferred embodiment the bag comprises a sealed flexible bag as illustrated in . Fluid in a bag may be referred to herein as bagged fluid . The bag may be made of any suitable material but is preferably made of a plastic material such as an organic polymer sheet material and is preferably flexible and pliable and does not impart a rigid shape to the fluid. The bag may however be filled with fluid to a point that the fluid is under pressure forming a relatively inflexible combination when the bag is sealed. The bag also may be of any suitable construction. Preferably the bag to be placed in the cooler comprises a single layer film wall. In an alternate embodiment a bag may be constructed with several plies of material or a set of bags placed one within another. Such a multi layer bag system may include what is commonly referred to in the art as a secondary containment or an overwrap as is shown in or may include sanitizing patches or similar structures on its surface as is shown in . For a bag having several layers or patches one or more of the layers or patches may be removed prior to placing the bag in the cooler .

In an embodiment such as shown in the spikes and include a cylindrical shaft and and a blade and . Each blade and comprises a circular cone positioned at an end of the corresponding shaft and and has a radius at its base identical to or slightly smaller than the largest radius of the shaft or . Upon a forceful encounter with the bag the dispensation spike and vent spike both puncture the bag . In this configuration as the bag material is punctured by the point of the cone the opening in the bag is gradually enlarged as the bag is pushed over the cone of the conical cones and onto the shafts and .

The bag and spikes and are preferably constructed so that the bag will seal about the spikes and after the bag is punctured. Such a seal may be dependent upon the materials and dimensions of both of the bag and the spikes and . The preferred materials and dimensions for producing such a seal about one spike is described in the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 926 604 titled Portable Water Cooler for use with Bagged Fluids and Bagged Fluids for use Therewith filed on Aug. 25 2004 which application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The methods and systems therein could be easily applied by one of ordinary skill to the spikes and herein without undue experimentation.

The spikes and will each generally include a plurality of fluid inlets or which after the puncturing of the bag by the spikes and allow fluid contained in the bag to enter the hollow shafts or of the spikes and . In a preferred embodiment the fluid inlets and are positioned in the side wall of the blades or of the spikes and though in alternate embodiments the fluid inlets and are positioned elsewhere on the spike including on the shafts and . In an embodiment illustrated in the inlet to the vent spike is smaller than the inlet to the dispensation spike so that upon initial puncturing minimal fluid travels through the vent spike while air can freely flow through the vent spike into the bag . In another embodiment the inlet in the vent spike may be on the side of the vent spike shaft rather than the blade such that gravity creates less pressure on fluid to enter the vent spike .

The dispensation spike generally has a longer shaft than the vent spike shaft as illustrated in and although that is not required. This arrangement provides that the dispensation shaft protrudes into the chamber further than the vent shaft . When the bag is initially punctured and situated such that fluid flow out of the bag is encouraged by gravity pressure or any other means fluid in the bag enters the holes in both spikes and . The chamber closed at the spigot fills with fluid released through both spikes and . However it will generally occur primarily through the dispensation spike which is generally adapted to permit water flow more easily than does the vent spike .

As fluid continues to flow from the bag into the chamber the level of fluid contained in the chamber continues to rise. Water in the chamber will displace the air in the chamber forcing the air to seek escape from chamber . The only opening not effectively blocked with water is vent spike which will result in air generally passing upward through spike and with some air passing through spike . Fluid and air flow generally continues through both spikes and until the fluid in the chamber accumulates to the point of reaching the terminus of the dispensation shaft at which point air can no longer flow into dispensation spike . As water will however continue to flow as there is no vacuum in the bag air will be forced in greater amount up the vent spike . Once the water reaches the bottom of the vent spike the air can no longer escape from chamber . At that point some air remains in the chamber . Water will continue to flow into the chamber which will pressurize the air remaining which cannot escape as the water level in the chamber continues to increase. Eventually this pressure will equal that exercised by gravity and external pressure on the water feeding the chamber and water flow will cease as the pressures equalize. This process is illustrated at a midpoint in .

Upon the puncturing of a sealed bag by the spikes and the fluid path out of the chamber through the spikes and has become sealed relative to the ambient environment external to the cooler base . That is after the puncturing of the bag there is no connection between the external environment and the chamber . The vent spike then becomes the only passage through which to equalize the pressure between the chamber and vents air into the bag .

Thus if the pressure in the chamber is less than the pressure exerted by the bag fluid continues to flow into the chamber . The pressure in the chamber however begins to rise. Fluid flows into the chamber and the pressure in the chamber rises until the point where the pressure in the chamber equals the water pressure from the bag . At this point flow from the bag into the chamber will stop as pressure equalizes.

Now with fluid in the chamber the same fluid can be dispensed through the tap . When the tap is opened to allow fluid to be dispensed from the chamber the water level in the chamber decreases until eventually the fluid level in the chamber is lower than the inlet of the vent spike . During dispensing the pressure in the chamber is reduced from the value at equilibrium no flow thus allowing fluid to begin again to flow from the bag into the chamber . So long as the volume fluid flow through the spikes and are less than the volume fluid flow through the tap the fluid level in the chamber continues to decrease as the fluid continues to be dispensed. So long as the volume rate of flow out of the tap i.e. out of the chamber is greater than the combined volume rate of flow into the chamber through the dispensation spike the pressure in the chamber will also continue to decrease.

When the tap is finally closed the reduced pressure in the chamber will add to the total force working to move fluid from the bag into the chamber . Not only will gravity be pulling the fluid through the dispensation spike but also pressure external to the bag will be pushing the fluid through the dispensation spike into the chamber . Such a chamber in which pressure is reduced during dispensing is beneficial to the evacuation of fluid from the bag to the greatest extent since in effect the reduced pressure in the chamber results in a greater net force working to push fluid out of the bag . As stated above these forces will work to move fluid from the bag into the chamber until all forces are equilibrated. In the event that the fluid in the bag is exhausted the vacuum in the chamber will generally pull air from the bag into the chamber collapsing the bag and draining any remaining water into the spike .

In a case where a new bag full of fluid is punctured by the spikes and it is possible that there will be a transient increase in pressure in the chamber especially if the bag is dropped onto the spikes and as in the preferred embodiment discussed above.

While the embodiment disclosed herein utilizes one dispensation spike and one vent spike it is known to those of reasonable skill in the art to use varying numbers and proportions of spikes and . For example an adapter may utilize more than one dispensation spike in order to among other purposes increase the flow of water during dispensation. Another adapter embodiment may combine the functionality of the dispensation spike and vent spike into one spike with two segregated shafts of differing lengths in order to among other purposes limit the number of times the bag is punctured but still achieve the solution to the pressure flow problem. In another embodiment an adapter may utilize multiple vent spikes to facilitate pressure alleviation.

A fluid dispenser with multispike adapter of the present invention can be fabricated new or portions thereof can be manufactured to retrofit other existing portions thereof in order to construct a complete embodiment of the present invention. Particularly a support can be manufactured to fit with an existing cooler base having a chamber . Where a support is manufactured to retrofit an existing cooler base the design of the support may take account of and incorporate the use of various components of the existing cooler base or other components of an existing dispensing system attached thereto such as for example any portions designed to isolate the chamber from external environmental influences.

The vent spike and multi spike adapter can provide for a bag dispensing system which once a water bag is punctured forms a sealed system. Unlike the vent straw which provides for external pressure equalization by having an external opening the multispike system water path is generally sealed. Air and water can only flow between the chamber and bag until the tap is opened. Fluid does not stagnate in the vent spike and cannot become contaminated by external sources. Because of the fluid s pressure bearing down on the vent spike any fluid excreted from the vent spike upon initial puncturing of the bag generally cannot travel back upstream and reenter and contaminate the bag .

The multi spike adapter also achieves the goal of solving the pressure flow problem without requiring use of an external modification to support . Unlike the vent system the multi spike adapter is ensconced at the base of the support and need not be visible. The bag and cooler retain their structural integrity when the pressure flow problem is solved by the multi spike adapter.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with certain preferred embodiments this should not be taken as a limitation to all of the provided details. Modifications and variations of the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and other embodiments should be understood to be encompassed in the present disclosure as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

