---

title: Physical-layer cell identity (PCI) partition for heterogeneous networks
abstract: Technology for partitioning small cell physical-layer cell identities (PCI) at a node in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is disclosed. One method can include the node identifying at least one small cell PCI of a plurality of small cells in a macro cell. Each small cell PCI can be associated with a low power node (LPN) in the HetNet. The node can generate a small cell PCI list to include the at least one small cell PCI. The node can broadcast the small cell PCI list to a wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456415&OS=09456415&RS=09456415
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09456415
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 542 086 filed Sep. 30 2011.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. transmission station and a wireless device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use OFDM and SC FDMA modulation for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device e.g. mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node station or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes or small cells. The macro node can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In some scenarios the heterogeneous network HetNet can provide higher capacity service to wireless devices over homogeneous networks. The HetNet can provide seamless connection and robust mobility to the wireless device from a macro cell e.g. macro node to a small cell e.g. LPN and back to the macro cell. A small cell can refer to a low power node LPN like a remote radio head RRH a pico node a home eNB HeNB or a relay node.

A wireless device can use reference signals to determine when the power or quality of communication with the macro node is too low which can indicate that communication may be transferred or handed over to another node such as a LPN for better communication. For example when a primary cell s PCell s reference signal received power RSRP or reference signal received quality RSRQ is lower than a threshold value the wireless device e.g. UE can search physical layer cell identities or physical cell identifiers PCIs from large pool of candidates e.g. 504 PCIs in LTE and choose one or several neighbor cells to perform measurements e.g. RSRP or RSRQ on. In a HetNet the RSRP measured from a small cell can vary quickly compared with the RSRP measured from a macro cell especially with a moving wireless device. In an example when the wireless device is moving towards small cell the wireless device can suffer high radio link failure rate before a small cell can be discovered especially in cases when the wireless device moves with medium or high speed. Reducing the PCI s search time for nodes e.g. small cells in HetNets can improve wireless device connectivity as wireless device moves towards small cells.

Since small cells can share the same PCI space of the macro cells the wireless device may search 504 PCIs to find small cells in a macro cell. In LTE the PCI space can have 504 unique physical layer cell identities PCIs . The physical layer cell identities can be grouped into 168 unique physical layer cell identity groups where each group can contain three unique identities. The grouping can be such that each physical layer cell identity can be part of one physical layer cell identity group. A physical layer cell identity N 3N Ncan be uniquely defined by a number Nin the range of 0 to 167 representing the physical layer cell identity group and a number Nin the range of 0 to 2 representing the physical layer identity within the physical layer cell identity group. Stated another way the physical cell identity Ncan be defined as N 3N N. Ncan be a physical layer cell identity group 0 to 167 Ncan be a identity within the group 0 to 2 creating 504 unique physical cell identities.

The primary synchronization signal PSS can be linked to the cell identity within the group N. The secondary synchronization signal SSS can be linked to the cell identity group Nand the cell identity within the group N. Ncan be obtained by successfully demodulating the PSS. The SSS can then be demodulated and combined with knowledge of Nto obtain N. Once the values of Nand Nhave been established the cell identity Ncan be determined.

The PSS can be used in a detection of a carrier frequency a detection of shared channel SCH e.g. data channel symbol timing and or an identification of a cell ID 0 2 . The SSS can be used in a detection of a radio frame timing a detection of a cell ID group 0 167 which can be combined with the cell ID to generate the PCI e.g. cell ID group cell ID PCI and or detection of cyclic prefix CP configuration. In an example the PSS and SSS can be transmitted two times in a radio frame. In another example the detection of the PSS and SSS can take over 5 milliseconds ms .

During the cell search the wireless device can search for the PSS and SSS within the radio frames. On locking the PSS and SSS the wireless device can identify the frame timing and the cell PCI. The PCI can be obtained by direct mapping from the PSS which can represent one of three possible cell identities and the SSS which can represent one of 168 cell group identities . Once the wireless device synchronizes with a new cell the wireless device can acquire the reference signals which enables the wireless device to determine the received signal strength for mobility purposes such as cell reselection and or handover.

In an example matched filtering can be used in the PCI search so that the received signal can be correlated with the possible sequences for the PSS. A possible sequence e.g. a first cell IDs can be multiplied by the received pattern and the operation can be synchronized to a clock. A subsequent integrator can add up the signal and if an output agrees with the checked sequence a tested sequence can indicate the sequence used for the PSS. If the output does not agree the next sequences e.g. next cell ID can be multiplied by the pattern until the output agrees. With successful matched filtering the device can identify the physical layer identity for the cell. In a roughly similar way a correlator can be used to match the received signal with the possible sequences 0 167 for the secondary synchronization signal SSS to generate the physical layer cell identity group and compute the physical cell identity PCI . With a broadcast of a small cell PCI list and or range. The PCI searching e.g. PSS and SSS detection process can be reduced prior to measuring e.g. RSRP and RSRQ the neighboring cells.

As stated previously the RSRP from the small cells can change more quickly than the RSRP from the macro cells for an equivalent distance traveled by the wireless device. When the wireless device is moving towards a small cell the wireless device can suffer serious interference from the primary interferer i.e. an approaching target small cell especially when the wireless device is traveling at a medium or high speed before the macro node handovers communication to the target small cell. A reason for the large interference can be that the RSRP from the small cell may be bigger than the PCell s RSRP when the wireless device is in the search process of searching the PCIs from the large number of PCIs candidates.

Broadcasting a list and or a range of PCIs of small cells can reduce the PCI candidates to search and help with small cell identification. In an example the wireless device can search the list and or range of PCIs of small cells before searching the remaining PCI candidates in the pool of available PCIs. The wireless device can include a single correlator or multiple correlators. In another example when a wireless device has multiple correlators the wireless device can search the PCIs of small cells with at least one correlator and remaining PCIs with at least another correlator in parallel with higher priority on a search of the small cell PCIs. At least one correlator can perform the PCI search of small cells while at least one other correlator can perform the PCI search of remaining PCIs simultaneously. With the small cell list and or the range of PCIs the search time for small cell PCIs can be reduced. A macro node can broadcast a list of small cell PCIs within a vicinity e.g. a selected proximity or area of the macro node or a list of the small cell PCIs within the macro cell. When the wireless device is moving toward a small cell with a known PCI the wireless device can optimize measurement and or handover related parameters which can result in better reselection and or handover performance. In addition broadcasting the list of small cell PCIs to the wireless device can save battery power by skipping the cell reselection of the PCI pool of candidates to small cells with PCIs on the list if the wireless device is in RRC IDLE state and or wireless device is moving at a high speed. In an example the wireless device can use the small cell PCI list to skip handing over to small cells if the mobility speed is too high. With the small cell PCI list the wireless device can use different weights on the PCIs in the small cell PCI list when performing a mobility state estimation MSE . Using the small cell PCI list the wireless device can use different handover parameters e.g. different time to trigger TTT values if a handover is to small cells .

The small cell PCI list and or range can be broadcast using various formats and or processes. In a configuration the small cell PCIs can be broadcast as a list of PCIs or a range of PCIs. The list can include a contiguous list or non contiguous list of PCIs. Using a list can provide flexibility but may incur an additional cost of signaling overhead. For example the node e.g. macro node or eNB can periodically broadcasts the list of the PCI s of the neighboring small cells using system information blocks SIBs which can be transmitted on a downlink shared channel DL SCH . Table 1 illustrates an example small cell PCI list with neighboring small cell and their associated PCIs. The list can be included in an IE or other designator.

The small cell PCIs can also be broadcast as a range. A range can use less signaling than a list and can be encoded by using a start value and by indicating the number of consecutive physical cell identities e.g. including or excluding the start value in the range. The small cell PCI list and or range can be included in an information element IE such as a mobility control IE. For example IE PhysCellIdRange in LTE can be used to indicate the PCI range of small cells. In the IE PhysCellIdRange the range value can include an enumerated type with a set range elements with relatively large values e.g. n4 n8 n12 n16 n24 n32 n48 n64 n84 n96 n128 n168 n252 n504 spare2 and spare1 where n4 represents the start value PCI PhysCellId and 3 PCIs after a start value n8 represents the start value PCI PhysCellId and 7 PCIs after a start value and so forth . Since the set of range values of the IE PhysCellIdRange may not be optimized to indicate a small number of PCIs another IE can be used to define a small cell PCI range e.g. IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange with a smaller set of range values than the IE PhysCellIdRange. illustrates an example abstract syntax notation one ASN.1 code for the IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange where the smaller set of range values can include a smaller increments of ranges such as n2 n3 n4 n5 n6 n7 n8 n9 n10 n12 n14 n16 n20 n24 spare2 and spare1 which can reduce the PCI searching. The IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange can include the range and start field descriptions. The range can indicate the number of physical cell identities in the range including start . A value n4 can correspond with 4 n8 corresponds with 8 and so on. A UE can apply value 1 in case the field is absent in which case the physical cell identity value indicated by start applies. The start can indicate the lowest physical cell identity in the range.

In another example a special case of indicating PCIs in a range can be to partition PCIs to two parts as either macro cells or non macro cell e.g. small cells . For example the macro cells can share two thirds of the PCIs 0 335 while the non macro cells e.g. small cells can share one third of the PCIs 336 503 . In the two part partitioning example the threshold value e.g. 335 representing the PCI partitioning can be broadcasted by the node in a SIB without an explicit range broadcasted .

In another configuration the small cell PCIs can be broadcasted as a number of types of small cells. For example all types of small cells can be classed as one category e.g. small cells and the node can broadcast the small cell PCI list and or range associated with the category of small cells. In another example small cells can be separated as several different types of small cells and the node can broadcast the list of small cell PCIs in each type separately. For example the small cell type can be indicated abstractly e.g. type1 or type 2 or the small cell type can be indicated concretely e.g. pico or RRH . The wireless device operation can be defined when receiving the small cell types or detecting the small cell types. The small cell categories or types can be included in an IE a field description or other designator.

In another configuration the relationship between the PCIs of small cells and a closed subscriber group CSG cells can be defined. A CSG cell can provide restricted access to the node by a selected number of wireless devices e.g. users . In an example the small cell PCIs can be exclusive to the CSG cell PCIs so a cell can either be designated as a CSG cell or a small cell but not both simultaneously. The PCIs of CSG cells can be broadcast in SIB type 4 SIB4 as csg PhysCellIdRange. For example when an overlap of PCIs broadcast between the PCIs of small cells and the PCIs of CSG cells occur the overlapping PCIs can be considered to belong to small cells i.e. not CSG cells . In another example the overlapping PCIs can be considered to belong to CSG cells i.e. not small cells .

In another configuration a validity time or an expiration time can be associated with the broadcasted small cell PCIs. For example the validity time of the broadcasted small cell PCIs can last for a specified time e.g. 24 hours . After the duration of the validity time or upon the expiration time or before the validity time expires the wireless device can reacquire the small cell PCI list. The time validity can place a time duration on the validity of the received small cell list. Alternatively a validity time may not be defined and the wireless device can consider the broadcasted small cell PCIs applicable until a different small cell PCI list is broadcasted by the node. The small cell PCI list and or range can be broadcasted periodically to wireless devices within a macro cell.

The described configurations can be combined into various combinations. For example illustrates a radio resource control RRC information element IE system information block SIB type 4 SIB4 with a intraFreqNeighSmallCellPhysCellIdList field where the small cell PCIs can be indicated as a list considering small cells as one type considering overlapping SCG and small cell PCIs belonging to small cells and not defining validity time. The SIB4 e.g. SystemInformationBlockType4 can include a csg PhysCellIdRange an intraFreqBlackCellList an intraFreqNeighbCellList a q OffsetCell and an intraFreqNeighSmallCellPhysCellIdList field descriptions. The csg PhysCellIdRange can include a set of physical cell identities reserved for CSG cells on a frequency on which the csg PhysCellIdRange was received. The received csg PhysCellIdRange can apply if less than 24 hours has elapsed since the csg PhysCellIdRange was received and the csg PhysCellIdRange was received in the same primary PLMN. A 3 hour validity restriction may not apply the csg PhysCellIdRange. The intraFreqBlackCellList can provide a list of blacklisted intra frequency neighboring cells. The intraFreqNeighbCellList can provide a list of intra frequency neighboring cells with specific cell re selection parameters. The q OffsetCell can include the parameter Qoffset . The intraFreqNeighSmallCellPhysCellIdList can provide a list of physical cell identities PCIs of the intra frequency neighboring small cells. The PCIs overlapping with csg PhysCellIdRange can belong to small cells. In another example the PCIs overlapping with csg PhysCellIdRange can belong to CSG cells.

Another example provides a method for partitioning small cell physical layer cell identities PCI at a node in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of identifying at a node at least one small cell PCI of a plurality of small cells in a macro cell wherein each small cell PCI is associated with a low power node LPN in the HetNet as in block . The operation of generating a small cell PCI list to include the at least one small cell PCI follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be broadcasting the small cell PCI list from the node to a wireless device as in block .

In an example the small cell PCI list can be configured to reduce a number of small cell PCI candidates for the wireless device to search to the small cell PCIs in the small cell PCI list. The small cell PCI list can include a plurality of non consecutive small cell PCIs or a range of consecutive small cell PCIs. In another example the small cell PCI list can include a PCI start value for a PCI and a PCI range for a number of PCIs to search after the PCI start value. The operation of broadcasting the small cell PCI list can further include broadcasting the small cell PCI list in a mobility control information element IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange or a mobility control IE PhysCellIdRange. A set of range elements of the IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange can have smaller values than a set of range elements of an IE PhysCellIdRange. In another example the operation of broadcasting the small cell PCI list can further include broadcasting the small cell PCI list in a radio resource control RRC information element IE master information block MIB type 4 configured to include a list of PCIs of intra frequency neighboring small cells e.g. a intraFreqNeighSmallCellPhysCellIdList . In an example the small cell PCI list can include a small cell category value e.g. type 1 type 2 pico or RRH where the small cell category value specifies the PCIs associated with a small cell type. The method can further include the node broadcasting a closed subscriber group CSG range to a wireless device. In an example the small cell PCI list can include a validity time of the received small cell PCI list where the validity time can specify an expiration time by which time to acquire an updated small cell PCI list.

Another example provides a method for searching a reduced number of small cell physical layer cell identity PCI candidates in a search pool at a wireless device in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a small cell PCI list from a serving node at a wireless device wherein the small cell PCI list identifies at least one small cell PCI to search and each small cell PCI is associated with a low power node LPN in the HetNet as in block . The operation of searching a reduced number of PCIs based on the small cell PCI list follows as in block .

The small cell PCI list can include a plurality of non consecutive small cell PCIs or a range of consecutive small cell PCIs. In another example the small cell PCI list can include a PCI start value for a PCI and a PCI range for a number of PCIs to search after the PCI start value. The operation of receiving the small cell PCI list can further include receiving the small cell PCI list broadcast in a mobility control information element IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange or a mobility control IE PhysCellIdRange. A set of range elements of the IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange can have smaller values than a set of range elements of an IE PhysCellIdRange. In another example the operation of receiving the small cell PCI list can further include receiving the small cell PCI list broadcast in a radio resource control RRC information element IE master information block MIB type 4 configured to include a list of PCIs of intra frequency neighboring small cells e.g. a intraFreqNeighSmallCellPhysCellIdList . In an example the small cell PCI list can include a small cell category value e.g. type 1 type 2 pico or RRH where the small cell category value specifies the PCIs associated with a small cell type. The method can further include the wireless device receiving a closed subscriber group CSG range from the serving node. The operation of searching the reduced number of PCIs can further include searching an overlap of PCIs specified in the small cell PCI list and the CSG range. In another example the operation of searching the reduced number of PCIs can further include excluding the PCIs specified in the CSG range from the PCIs specified in the small cell PCI list in the search. The operation of searching the reduced number of PCIs can be based on a validity time of the received small cell PCI list. The validity time can specify an expiration time by which time to acquire an updated small cell PCI list. In another example the operation of searching the reduced number of PCIs can be triggered when a primary cell s reference signal received power RSRP or reference signal received quality RSRQ falls below a specified threshold. The operation of searching the reduced number of PCIs can use a reference signal received power RSRP or a reference signal received quality RSRQ derived from a reference signal RS such as a primary synchronization signal PSS or a secondary synchronization signal SSS .

The wireless device e.g. UE can be in communication with the nodes and e.g. eNB or LPN . The wireless device can include a PCI searching device and the PCI searching device can include a downlink receiving module and a PCI searching module . In an example the PCI searching device can include a timing module . The PCI searching device can be configured for searching a reduced number of small cell PCI candidates in a search pool at a wireless device in a heterogeneous network HetNet . The downlink receiving module can be configured to receive a small cell PCI list from a serving node at a wireless device. The small cell PCI list can identify at least one small cell PCI to search and each small cell PCI can be associated with a low power node LPN in the HetNet. The PCI searching module can be configured to search a reduced number of PCIs based on the small cell PCI list.

The small cell PCI list can include a plurality of non consecutive small cell PCIs a range of consecutive small cell PCIs a PCI start value for a PCI and a PCI range for a number of PCIs to search after the PCI start value and or a small cell category value. The small cell category value can specify the PCIs associated with a small cell type. The downlink receiving module can be further configured to receive the small cell PCI list in a mobility control information element IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange or a radio resource control RRC information element IE master information block MIB type 4 configured to include a list of PCIs of intra frequency neighboring small cells. A set of range elements of the IE SmallCellPhysCellIdRange can have smaller values than a set of range elements of an IE PhysCellIdRange. In another example the downlink receiving module can be further configured to receive a closed subscriber group CSG range from the serving node. The PCI searching module can be further configured to search the reduced number of PCIs by searching an overlap of PCIs specified in the small cell PCI list and the CSG range or by excluding the PCIs specified in the CSG range from the PCIs specified in the small cell PCI list in the search. In an example the PCI searching module can be further configured to search the reduced number of PCIs after a primary cell s reference signal received power RSRP or reference signal received quality RSRQ falls below a specified threshold. The timing module can be configured to count a validity time of the received small cell PCI list. The validity time can specify an expiration time by which time to acquire an updated small cell PCI list. The wireless device can include a user equipment UE and a mobile station MS . The wireless device can configured to connect to at least one of a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and a wireless wide area network WWAN . The wireless device can include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

