---

title: Retinal derivatives and methods for the use thereof for the treatment of visual disorders
abstract: Compositions of and methods for using synthetic retinal derivatives as retinoid replacements and opsin agonists are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09403765&OS=09403765&RS=09403765
owner: University of Washington
number: 09403765
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 042 308 filed Mar. 7 2011 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 629 875 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 951 841 filed Feb. 12 2008 under 35 U.S.C. 371 c 1 as a U.S. national stage entry of International Patent Application No. PCT US2005 021812 filed Jun. 20 2005 under the Patent Cooperation Treaty and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 580 889 filed Jun. 18 2004 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This research was supported by United States Public Health Service Grant EY09339 from the National Eye Institute of the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

A diminished visual acuity or total loss of vision may result from a number of eye diseases or disorders caused by dysfunction of tissues or structures in the anterior segment of the eye and or posterior segment of the eye. Disease or disorders of the posterior segment of the eye in general are retinal or choroidal vascular diseases or hereditary diseases such as Leber Congenital Amaurosis. Age related macular degeneration AMD is one of the specific diseases associated with the posterior portion of the eyeball and is the leading cause of blindness among older people. AMD results in damage to the macula a small circular area in the center of the retina. Because the macula is the area which enables one to discern small details and to read or drive its deterioration may bring about diminished visual acuity and even blindness. The retina contains two forms of light receiving cells rods and cones that change light into electrical signals. The brain then converts these signals into the images. The macula is rich in cone cells which provides central vision. People with AMD suffer deterioration of central vision but usually retain peripheral sight.

Slightly blurred or distorted vision is the most common early symptom of AMD. Visual loss with dry AMD usually progresses slowly while visual loss with wet AMD proceeds more rapidly and may occur over days or weeks. Patients who have wet AMD in one eye are at increased risk of developing choroidal neo vascularization CNV in the other eye. The magnitude of the risk varies depending on the appearance of the second eye. The risk is greater in eyes with numerous large drusen with abnormal pigment changes in the macula and in patients with a history of high blood pressure. Reactions that go on in the RPE lead to oxidative products leading to cell death and neovascularization. This excess metabolism leads to the formation of drusen under the RPE.

Other eye diseases also affect photoreceptor function in the eye. Retinitis Pigmentosa represents disease caused by defects in many different genes. They all have a final common pathway of night blindness and peripheral vision loss that can lead to narrowing of the visual field and eventual loss of all vision in many patients. The rod photoreceptors are usually primarily affected and most of the gene defects leading to the disease occur in genes that are expressed predominantly or only in the rod cells.

One autosomal dominant form of Retinitis Pigmentosa comprises an amino acid substitution in opsin a proline to histidine substitution at amino acid 23. This defect compromises 10 20 of all Retinitis Pigmentosa cases. This abnormal opsin protein forms a protein aggregate that eventually leads to cell death.

Leber Congenital Amaurosis is a very rare childhood condition that affects children from birth or shortly thereafter. It affects both rods and cones. There are a few different gene defects that have been associated with the disease. These include the genes encoding the RPE65 and LRAT proteins. Both result in a person s inability to make 11 cis retinal in adequate quantities. In the RPE65 defective individuals retinyl esters build up in the retinal pigment epithelium RPE . LRAT defective individuals are unable to make esters and subsequently secrete any excess retinoids.

Retinitis Punctata Albesciens is another form of Retinitis Pigmentosa that exhibits a shortage of 11 cis retinal in the rods. Aging also leads to the decrease in night vision and loss of contrast sensitivity due to a shorting of 11 cis retinal. Excess unbound opsin is believed to randomly excite the visual transduction system. This can create noise in the system and thus more light and more contrast is necessary to see well.

Congenital Stationary Night Blindness CSNB and Fundus Albipunctatus are a group of diseases that are manifested as night blindness but there is not a progressive loss of vision as in the Retinitis Pigmentosa. Some forms of CSNB are due to a delay in the recycling of 11 cis retinal. Fundus Albipunctatus until recently was thought to be a special case of CSNB where the retinal appearance is abnormal with hundreds of small white dots appearing in the retina. It has been shown recently that this is also a progressive disease although much slower than Retinitis Pigmentosa. It is caused by a gene defect that leads to a delay in the cycling of 11 cis retinal.

Currently there are few treatments for retinoid deficiency. One treatment a combination of antioxidant vitamins and zinc produces only a small restorative effect. Thus there is a need for compositions and methods of restoring or stabilizing photoreceptor function and ameliorating the effects of deficient levels of endogenous retinoids.

The present invention provides compounds and methods of using such compound to restore and or stabilize photoreceptor function in a vertebrate visual system. Synthetic retinal derivatives can be administered to human or non human vertebrate subjects to restore or stabilize photoreceptor function and or to ameliorate the effects of a deficiency in retinoid levels.

In one aspect synthetic retinal derivatives are provided. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some embodiments the synthetic retinal derivatives is a retinyl ester such as a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester. The ester substituent can be for example a carboxylate radical of a Cto Cpolycarboxylic acid polycarboxylate . For example the substituent can be succinate citrate ketoglutarate fumarate malate and oxaloacetate. In some embodiments the ester substituent is not tartarate.

In some embodiments the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester of a Cto Ccarboxylate. In other embodiments the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester of a Cto Ccarboxylate. In some embodiments the retinyl ester is an 11 cis retinyl ester of a Cto Ccarboxylate. In other embodiments the retinyl ester is an 11 cis retinyl ester of a Cto Ccarboxylate.

Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising the synthetic retinal derivative and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some embodiments the synthetic retinal derivatives is a retinyl ester such as a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester. The ester substituent can be for example a carboxylate radical of a Cto Cpolycarboxylic acid. The pharmaceutical composition can be compounded for example as an opthalmological composition in an opthalmologically acceptable vehicle for administration to the eye topically or by intra ocular injection.

In another aspect a method of restoring photoreceptor function in a mammal is provided. The method includes administering to a mammalian subject having an endogenous retinoid deficiency an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a 9 cis retinyl ester an 11 cis retinyl ester or a combination thereof. The ester substituent can be a carboxylate radical of a C Cmonocarboxylic acid or a Cto Cpolycarboxylic acid. In some embodiments synthetic retinal derivative is 9 cis retinyl acetate or 11 cis retinyl acetate. In other embodiments the ester substituent comprises a carboxylate radical of a polycarboxylic acid of Cto C. For example the ester substituent can be succinate citrate ketoglutarate fumarate malate and oxaloacetate. The mammalian subject can be for example human or other mammal.

In another aspect a method of ameliorating loss of photoreceptor function in a mammal is provided. The method includes administering an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative to the vertebrate eye wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a 9 cis retinyl ester an 11 cis retinyl ester or a combination thereof. The ester substituent can be a carboxylate radical of a C Cmonocarboxylic acid or a Cto Cpolycarboxylic acid. In some embodiments synthetic retinal derivative is 9 cis retinyl acetate or 11 cis retinyl acetate. In other embodiments the ester substituent comprises a carboxylate radical of a polycarboxylic acid of Cto C. For example the ester substituent can be succinate citrate ketoglutarate fumarate malate and oxaloacetate. The mammalian subject can be for example human or other mammal.

In an aspect a method of restoring photoreceptor function in a vertebrate eye is provided. The method can include administering to the vertebrate in need thereof having an endogenous retinoid deficiency an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be administered to a vertebrate in need thereof. For example the vertebrate can have or be predisposed to developing an endogenous retinoid deficiency associated with Age Related Macular Degeneration Leber Congenital Amaurosis Retinitis Punctata Albesciens Congenital Stationary Night Blindness Fundus Albipunctatus or other disease or condition associated with an endogenous retinoid deficiency.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In another aspect a method of sparing the requirement for endogenous retinoid in a vertebrate eye is provided. The method can include administering to the eye a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the IP like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be administered to a vertebrate in need thereof. For example the vertebrate can have or be predisposed to developing an endogenous retinoid deficiency associated with Age Related Macular Degeneration Leber Congenital Amaurosis Retinitis Punctata Albesciens Congenital Stationary Night Blindness Fundus Albipunctatus or other disease or condition associated with an endogenous retinoid deficiency.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In yet another aspect a method of ameliorating loss of photoreceptor function in a vertebrate eye is provided. The method can include prophylactically administering an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle to the vertebrate eye wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In yet a further aspect a method of selecting a treatment for a subject having diminished visual capacity is provided. The method can include determining whether the subject has a deficient endogenous retinoid level as compared with a standard subject and administering to the subject an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle e.g. an opthalmologically acceptable vehicle wherein the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a retinal capable of forming a functional opsin retinal complex. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the endogenous retinoid is an 11 cis retinyl ester. In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In yet a further aspect pharmaceutical compositions and oral dosage forms are provided. The compositions can include a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle e.g. an opthalmologically acceptable vehicle . The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

The pharmaceutical composition can be for example an intraocular injectable solution or a periocular injectable solution. The oral dosage form can be for example a pill tablet capsule gel cap or the like.

In yet another aspect a method of treating Leber Congenital Amaurosis in a human subject is provided. The method generally includes administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In another aspect a method of treating Retinitis Punctata Albesciens Congenital Stationary Night Blindness or Fundus Albipunctatus in a human subject is provided. The method can include administering to the subject in need thereof an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle. The method generally includes administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In yet another aspect a method of treating Age Related Macular Degeneration in a human subject is provided. The method can include administering to the subject in need thereof an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a synthetic retinal that binds to free opsin in the eye. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

In yet a further aspect a method of treating or preventing loss of night vision or contrast sensitivity in an aging human subject is provided. The method can include administering to the subject in need thereof an effective amount of a synthetic retinal derivative in a pharmaceutically or opthalmologically acceptable vehicle. The synthetic retinal derivative can be for example a derivative of Formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X XI XII XIII XIV XV and or XVI. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is a 9 cis retinyl Cto Cester. In some methods if the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester comprising a monocarboxylic acid ester substituent it is an 11 cis retinyl Cto Cester.

In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is converted into a synthetic retinal that binds to free opsin in the eye. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 cis retinyl ester such as for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like. In some methods the synthetic retinal derivative is an 11 cis retinyl ester such as for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinyl oxaloacetate or the like.

In some methods the synthetic retinoid derivative can be administered locally such as by eye drops intraocular injection periocular injection or the like. In other methods the synthetic retinal derivative can be orally administered to the vertebrate. In some methods the vertebrate is a human.

The present invention provides synthetical retinal derivatives and methods of using such derivatives to restore or stabilize photoreceptor function in a vertebrate visual system. The synthetic retinal derivative is a derivative of 9 cis retinal or 11 cis retinal in which the aldehydic group in the polyene chain is modified. The synthetic retinal derivative can be converted directly or indirectly into a retinal or a synthetic retinal analog. Thus in some aspects the compounds according to the present invention can be described as a pro drug which upon metabolic transformation is converted into 9 cis retinal 11 cis retinal or a synthetic retinal analog thereof. Metabolic transformation can occur for example by acid hydrolysis esterase activity acetyltransferase activity dehydrogenase activity or the like.

The synthetic retinal derivative can be a retinoid replacement supplementing the levels of endogenous retinoid. In some embodiments the synthetic retinal can bind to opsin and function as an opsin agonist. As used herein the term agonist refers to a synthetic retinal that binds to opsin and facilitates the ability of an opsin synthetic retinal complex to respond to light. As an opsin agonist a synthetic retinal can spare the requirement for endogenous retinoid e.g. 11 cis retinal . A synthetic retinal also can restore or improve function e.g. photoreception to opsin by binding to opsin and forming a functional opsin synthetic retinal complex whereby the opsin synthetic retinal complex can respond to photons when part of a rod or cone membrane.

Synthetic retinal derivatives can be administered to restore or stabilize photoreceptor function and or to ameliorate the effects of a deficiency in retinoid levels. Photoreceptor function can be restored or stabilized for example by providing a synthetic retinal derivative as an 11 cis retinoid replacement and or an opsin agonist. The synthetic retinal derivative also can ameliorate the effects of a retinoid deficiency on a vertebrate visual system. The synthetic retinal derivative can be administered prophylactically or therapeutically to a vertebrate. Suitable vertebrates include for example human and non human vertebrates. Suitable non human vertebrates include for example mammals such as dogs canine cats feline horses equine and other domesticated animals.

In one aspect synthetic retinal derivatives are provided. The synthetic retinal derivatives are derivatives of 9 cis retinal or 11 cis retinal in which the aldehydic group in the polyene chain is converted to an ester ether alcohol hemi acetal acetal oxime as further described herein. Such synthetic retinal derivatives include 9 cis retinyl esters 9 cis retinyl ethers 9 cis retinol 9 cis retinal oximes 9 cis retinyl acetals 9 cis retinyl hemiacetals 11 cis retinyl esters 11 cis retinyl ethers 11 cis retinol 11 cis retinyl oximes 11 cis retinyl acetals and 11 cis retinyl hemiacetals as further described herein. The synthetic retinal derivative can be metabolized to release a natural or synthetic retinal such as for example 9 cis retinal 11 cis retinal or a synthetic retinal analog thereof such as those described herein or in co pending International Application No. PCT US04 07937 filed Mar. 15 2004 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein .

In one aspect the synthetic retinal derivative is a retinyl ester. In some embodiments the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester having a The ester substituent can be for example a carboxylic acid such as a mono or polycarboxylic acid. As used herein a polycarboxylic acid is a di tri or higher order carboxylic acid. In some embodiments the carboxylic acid is a C C C C C C C C C C C C C Cor Cmonocarboxylic acid or polycarboxylic acid.

Suitable carboxylic acid groups include for example acetic acid propionic acid butyric acid valeric acid caproic acid caprylic acid pelargonic acid ca in acid lauric acid oleic acid stearic acid palmitic acid myristic acid or linoleic acid. The carboxylic acid also can be for example oxalic acid ethanedioic acid malonic acid propanedioic acid succinic acid butanedioic fumaric acid butenedioic acid malic acid 2 hydroxybutenedioic acid glutaric acid pentanedioic acid adipic acid hexanedioic acid pimelic acid heptanedioic suberic acid octanedioic azelaic acid nonanedioic acid sebacic acid decanedioic acid citric acid oxaloacetic acid ketoglutaratic acid or the like.

In an exemplary embodiment the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester including a C Cpolycarboxylic acid substituent. In this context the terms substituent or group refer to a radical covalently linked to the terminal oxygen in the polyene chain. In another exemplary embodiment the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester including a C Cor C Cpolycarboxylic acid substituent. The polycarboxylic acid substituent can be for example succinate citrate ketoglutarate fumarate malate or oxaloacetate. In another exemplary embodiment the retinyl ester is a 9 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ester including a C Cdi carboxylic acid di acid substituent. In some embodiments the polycarboxylic acid is not 9 cis retinyl tartarate or 11 cis retinyl tartarate. In some embodiments the retinyl ester is not a naturally occurring retinyl ester normally found in the eye. In some embodiments the retinyl ester is an isolated retinyl ester. As used herein isolated refers to a molecule that exists apart from its native environment and is therefore not a product of nature. An isolated molecule may exist in a purified form or may exist in a non native environment.

In another aspect the retinal derivative can be a 9 cis retinyl ester or ether of the following formula I 

In some embodiments A is CHOR where R can be an aldehydic group to form a retinyl ester. A suitable aldehydic group is a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group. The aldehydic group also can be a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group. The aldehydic group can be a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group such as for example acetaldehyde propionaldehyde butyraldehyde valeraldehyde hexanal heptanal octanal nonanal decanal undecanal dodecanal. R can be a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group or a Cto Cstraight chain or branched aldehydic group.

R further can be a carboxylate group of a dicarboxylic acid or other carboxylic acid e.g. a hydroxyl acid to form a retinyl ester some of which are also referred to as retinoyl esters . The carboxylic acid can be for example oxalic acid ethanedioic acid malonic acid propanedioic acid succinic acid butanedioic fumaric acid butenedioic acid malic acid 2 hydroxybutenedioic acid glutaric acid pentanedioic acid adipic acid hexanedioic acid pimelic acid heptanedioic suberic acid octanedioic azelaic acid nonanedioic acid sebacic acid decanedioic acid citric acid oxaloacetic acid ketoglutaratic acid or the like.

R can also be an alkane group to form a retinyl alkane ether. Suitable alkane groups include for example Cto Cstraight chain or branched alkyls such as for example methane ethane butane isobutane pentane isopentane hexane heptane octane or the like. For example the alkane group can be a linear iso sec tert or other branched lower alkyl ranging from Cto C. The alkane group also can be a linear iso sec tert or other branched medium chain length alkyl ranging from Cto C. The alkane group also can be a linear iso sec tert or other branched long chain length alkyl ranging from Cto C.

R further can be an alcohol group to form a retinyl alcohol ether. Suitable alcohol groups can be linear iso sec tert or other branched lower alcohols ranging from Cto C linear iso sec tert or other branched medium chain length alcohols ranging from Cto C or linear iso sec tert or other branched long chain length alkyl ranging from Cto C. The alcohol group can be for example methanol ethanol butanol isobutanol pentanol hexanol heptanol octanol or the like

R also can be a carboxylic acid to form a retinyl carboxylic acid ether. Suitable alcohol groups can be linear iso sec tert or other branched lower carboxylic acids ranging from Cto C linear iso sec tert or other branched medium chain length carboxylic acids ranging from Cto C or linear iso sec tert or other branched long chain length carboxylic acids ranging from Cto C. Suitable carboxylic acid groups include for example acetic acid propionic acid butyric acid valeric acid caproic acid caprylic acid pelargonic acid capric acid lauric acid oleic acid stearic acid palmitic acid myristic acid linoleic acid succinic acid fumaric acid or the like.

The retinyl derivative can be a retinyl hemiacetal where A is CH OH OR. R can be any of the R groups set forth above in Formula I. R is typically a lower alkane such as a methyl or ethyl group or a Cto Csaturated and unsaturated cyclic or acyclic alkane with or without hetero atoms as described herein.

The retinyl derivative can be a retinyl acetal where A is CH OR OR. Each of Rand Rcan be independently selected from any of the R groups set forth above in Formula I. Rand Rare typically a Cto Csaturated and unsaturated cyclic or acyclic alkane with or without hetero atoms as described herein.

The retinyl derivative also can be a retinyl oxime where A is CH NOH or CH NOR. R can be any of the R groups set forth above in Formula I. R is typically a hydrogen or an alkane.

Examples of suitable synthetic retinal derivatives include for example 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis retinyl formate 9 cis retinyl succinate 9 cis retinyl citrate 9 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 9 cis retinyl fumarate 9 cis retinyl malate 9 cis retinyl oxaloacetate 9 cis retinal oxime 9 cis retinal O methyl oximes 9 cis retinal O ethyl oximes and 9 cis retinal methyl acetals and hemi acetals 9 cis retinyl methyl ether 9 cis retinyl ethyl ether and 9 cis retinyl phenyl ether.

In a related aspect the retinal derivative can be an 11 cis retinyl ester or ether of the following formula II 

Examples of suitable synthetic retinal derivatives include for example 11 cis retinyl acetate 11 cis retinyl formate 11 cis retinyl succinate 11 cis retinyl citrate 11 cis retinyl ketoglutarate 11 cis retinyl fumarate 11 cis retinyl malate 11 cis retinal oxime 11 cis retinal O methyl oxime 11 cis retinal O ethyl oximes and 11 cis retinal methyl acetals and hemi acetals 11 cis retinyl methyl ether 11 cis retinyl ethyl ether.

In additional aspects the synthetic retinal derivatives can be for example a derivative of a 9 cis retinyl ester a 9 cis retinyl ether an 11 cis retinyl ester or an 11 cis retinyl ethers such as for example an acyclic retinyl ester or ethers a retinyl ester or ether with a modified polyene chain length such as a trienoic or tetraenoic retinyl ester or ether a retinyl ester or ether with a substituted polyene chain such as alkyl halogen or heteratom substituted polyene chains a retinyl ester or ether with a modified polyene chain such as a trans or cis locked polyene chain or with for example allene or alkyne modifications and a retinyl ester or ether with a ring modification s such as heterocyclic heteroaromatic or substituted cycloalkane or cycloalkene rings.

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Rand Rcan be independently selected from linear iso sec tert and other branched alkyl groups as well as substituted alkyl groups substituted branched alkyl hydroxyl hydroalkyl amine amide or the like. Rand Rcan independently be lower alkyl which means straight or branched alkyl with 1 6 carbon atom s such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl or the like. Suitable substituted alkyls and substituted branch alkyls include for example alkyls branched alkyls and cyclo alkyls substituted with oxygen hydroxyl nitrogen amide amine halogen heteroatom or other groups. Suitable heteroatoms include for example sulfur silicon and fluoro or bromo substitutions.

Ror Ralso can be a cyclo alkyl such as for example hexane cyclohexene benzene as well as a substituted cyclo alkyl. Suitable substituted cyclo alkyls include for example cyclo alkyls substituted with oxygen hydroxyl nitrogen amide amine halogen heteroatom and or other groups. Suitable heteroatoms include for example sulfur silicon and fluoro or bromo substitutions.

The synthetic retinal derivative also can have a modified polyene chain length such as the following formula IV 

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . The polyene chain length can be extended by 1 2 or 3 alkyl alkene or alkylene groups. According to formula IV each n and ncan be independently selected from 1 2 or 3 alkyl alkene or alkylene groups with the proviso that the sum of the n and nis at least 1.

The synthetic retinal derivative also can have a substituted polyene chain of the following formula V 

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Each of Rto Rcan be independently selected from hydrogen alkyl branched alkyl cyclo alkyl halogen a heteratom of the like. Suitable alkyls include for example methyl ethyl propyl substituted alkyl e.g. alkyl with hydroxyl hydroalkyl amine amide or the like. Suitable branched alkyls can be for example isopropyl isobutyl substituted branched alkyl or the like. Suitable cyclo alkyls can include for example cyclohexane cycloheptane and other cyclic alkanes as well as substituted cyclic alkanes such as substituted cyclohexane or substituted cycloheptane. Suitable halogens include for example bromine chlorine fluorine or the like. Suitable heteroatoms include for example sulfur silicon and fluoro or bromo substitutions. Suitable substituted alkyls substituted branch alkyls and substituted cyclo alkyls include for example alkyls branched alkyls and cyclo alkyls substituted with oxygen hydroxyl nitrogen amide amine halogen heteroatom or other groups.

For example the synthetic retinal derivative can be selected from the following a 9 ethyl 11 cis retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 7 methyl 11 cis retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 13 desmethyl 11 cis retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 10 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 10 Cl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 10 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 10 ethyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 10 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 10 Cl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 10 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 10 ethyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 12 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 12 Cl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 12 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 10 ethyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 12 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 12 Cl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 12 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 14 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 14 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal an 11 cis 14 ethyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 14 F retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 14 methyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal a 9 cis 14 ethyl retinyl ester ether oxime acetal or hemiacetal or the like.

The synthetic retinal derivative further can have a modified ring structure. Suitable examples include for example derivatives containing ring modifications aromatic analogs and heteroaromatic analogs of the following formulae VI VII and VIII respectively 

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Each of Rto R as applicable can be independently selected from hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl hydroxyl hydroalkyl amine amid halogen a heteratom or the like. Suitable alkyls include for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl or the like. Suitable halogens include for example bromine chlorine fluorine or the like. Suitable heteroatoms include for example sulfur silicon or nitrogen. In formulae VII X can be for example sulfur silicon nitrogen fluoro or bromo substitutions. Similarly 9 cis synthetic retinal derivatives containing ring modifications aromatic analogs and heteroaromatic analogs of those shown in formulae VI VII and VIII are contemplated.

The synthetic retinal derivative also can have a modified polyene chain. Suitable derivatives include for example those with a trans cis locked configuration 6s locked analogs as well as modified allene alkene alkyne or alkylene groups in the polyene chain. In one example the derivative is an 11 cis locked analog of the following formula IX 

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Rcan be for example hydrogen methyl or other lower alkane or branch alkane. n can be 0 to 4. m plus 1 equals 1 2 or 3.

In one embodiment the synthetic retinal derivative can be an 11 cis locked analog of the following formula X 

The synthetic retinal derivative is a 9 11 13 tri cis 7 ring retinyl ester or ether an 11 13 di cis 7 ring retinyl ester or ether an 11 cis 7 ring retinyl ester or ether or a 9 11 di cis 7 ring retinyl ester or ether.

In another example the synthetic retinal derivative is a 6s locked analog of formula XL A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Rand Rcan be independently selected from hydrogen methyl and other lower alkyl and substituted lower alkyl. Rcan be independently selected from an alkene group at either of the indicated positions.

The synthetic retinal derivative can be a 9 cis ring fused derivative such as for example those shown in formulae XII XIV. A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I .

A can be any of the groups set forth above for formula I . Each of Rto R Rto R Rand Rcan be absent or independently selected from hydrogen alkyl branched alkyl halogen hydroxyl hydroalkyl amine amide a heteratom or the like. Suitable alkyls include for example methyl ethyl propyl substituted alkyl e.g. alkyl with hydroxyl hydroalkyl amine amide or the like. Suitable branched alkyl can be for example isopropyl isobutyl substituted branched alkyl or the like. Suitable halogens include for example bromine chlorine fluorine or the like. Suitable heteroatoms include for example sulfur silicon and fluoro or bromo substitutions. Suitable substituted alkyls and substituted branch alkyls include for example alkyls and branched alkyls substituted with oxygen hydroxyl nitrogen amide amine halogen heteroatom or other groups. Each of n and ncan be independently selected from 1 2 or 3 alkyl alkene or alkylene groups with the proviso that the sum of the n and nis at least 1. In addition R Rand or R Rcan comprise an alkene group in the cyclic carbon ring in which case Ris absent. Rand Rtogether can form a cyclo alkyl such as a five six seven or eight member cyclo alkyl or substituted cyclo alkyl such as for example those shown in Formulae IX X XII XIII and XIV.

Methods of making synthetic retinals and derivatives are disclosed in for example the following references 272 232 42 1999 36 2089 93 1997 14 3933 41 1975 21 384 93 1982 28 2732 39 1989 33 408 16 1994 35 6257 62 1996 27 372 82 1999 56 31 39 1995 56 1259 65 1989 83 3460 69 2002 7 4198 204 2001 Europe 5 1172 75 1999 158 1 1983 104 3214 16 1982 108 6077 78 1986 109 6163 1987 112 7779 82 1990 119 5758 59 1997 121 5803 04 1999 123 10024 29 2001 124 7294 302 2002 276 26148 53 2001 277 42315 24 2004 . 1 1773 77 1997 . 1 2430 39 2001 49 649 52 1984 58 3533 37 1993 102 2787 806 1998 8 558 65 13 259 83 1986 44 803 07 1986 54 969 76 1991 60 64 68 1994 65 1047 55 1991 70 111 15 2002 76 606 615 2002 88 9412 16 1991 90 4072 76 1993 94 13442 47 1997 and 233 1270 55 76 1988 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein .

Retinyl esters can be formed by methods known in the art such as for example by acid catalyzed esterification of a retinol with a carboxylic acid by reaction of an acyl halide with a retinol by transesterification of a retinyl ester with a carboxylic acid by reaction of a primary halide with a carboxylate salt of a retinoic acid by acid catalyzed reaction of an anhydride with a retinol or the like. In an example retinyl esters can be formed by acid catalyzed esterification of a retinol with a carboxylic acid such as acetic acid propionic acid butyric acid valeric acid caproic acid caprylic acid pelargonic acid capric acid lauric acid oleic acid stearatic acid palmitic acid myristic acid linoleic acid succinic acid fumaric acid or the like. In another example retinyl esters can be formed by reaction of an acyl halide with a retinol see e.g. Van Hooser et al. 97 8623 28 2000 . Suitable acyl halides include for example acetyl chloride palmitoyl chloride or the like.

Retinyl ethers can be formed by methods known in the art such as for example reaction of a retinol with a primary alkyl halide.

Trans retinoids can be isomerized to cis retinoids by exposure to UV light. For example all trans retinal all trans retinol all trans retinyl ester or all trans retinoic acid can be isomerized to 9 cis retinal 9 cis retinol 9 cis retinyl ester or 9 cis retinoic acid respectively. trans Retinoids can be isomerized to 9 cis retinoids by for example exposure to a UV light having a wavelength of about 365 nm and substantially free of shorter wavelengths that cause degradation of cis retinoids as further described herein.

Retinyl acetals and hemiacetals can be prepared for example by treatment of 9 cis and 11 cis retinals with alcohols in the presence of acid catalysts. Water formed during reaction is removed for example by AlOof a molecular sieve.

Retinyl oximes can be prepared for example by reaction of a retinal with hydroxylamine O methyl or O ethylhydroxylamine or the like.

For a specific opsin protein a suitable synthetic retinal derivatives can be identified for example by an expression system expressing the opsin protein. Suitable animal models include for example RPE65 or LRAT mice see e.g. Van Hooser et al. 277 19173 82 2002 Baehr et al. 43 2957 58 2003 Batten et al. 279 10422 32 2004 Kuksa et al. 43 2959 81 2003 Thompson et al. 37 141 54 2003 . Other suitable non human animal models further include other mouse rat or primate systems. Such animal models can be prepared for example by promoting homologous recombination between a nucleic acid encoding an opsin in its chromosome and an exogenous nucleic acid encoding a mutant opsin. In one aspect homologous recombination is carried out by transforming embryo derived stern ES cells with a vector containing an opsin gene such that homologous recombination occurs followed by injecting the ES cells into a blastocyst and implanting the blastocyst into a foster mother followed by the birth of the chimeric animal see e.g. Capecchi 244 1288 92 1989 . The chimeric animal can be bred to produce additional transgenic animals.

Suitable expression systems also can include for example in vitro or in vivo systems. Suitable in vitro systems include for example coupled transcription translation systems. Suitable in vivo systems include for example cells expressing an opsin protein. For example cells of a vertebrate visual system can be adapted for culture in vitro or recombinant cell lines expressing an opsin protein can be used. The cell lines are typically stable cell lines expressing the opsin protein. A synthetic retinal or synthetic retinal derivative can be added to the cell culture media and the cells cultured for a suitable period of time to allow the production of opsin rhodopsin. Opsin and or rhodopsin can be isolated e.g. by immunoaffinity . Isolated protein samples are examined to determine the amount of pigment formed and absorbance maxima. Methods of introducing nucleic acids into vertebrate cells are disclosed in for example Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2001 .

Recombinant cell lines expressing opsin protein can be prepared by for example introducing an expression construct encoding an opsin protein into a suitable cell line. The expression construct typically includes a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding an opsin protein and optionally a termination signal s . Nucleic acids encoding opsin can be obtained for example by using information from a database e.g. a genomic or cDNA library by polymerase chain reaction or the like. For example opsin encoding nucleic acids can be obtained by hybridization. See generally Sambrook et al. supra . An opsin encoding nucleic acid can be obtained by hybridization under conditions of low medium or high stringency.

Opsin encoding nucleic acids can be obtained under conditions of high stringency hybridization. By way of example and not limitation procedures using conditions of high stringency are as follows Prehybridization of filters containing DNA is carried out for 8 hours to overnight at 65 C. in buffer composed of 6 SSC 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 1 mM EDTA 0.02 PVP 0.02 Ficoll 0.02 BSA and 500 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA. Filters are hybridized for 48 hours at 65 C. in prehybridization mixture containing 100 g ml denatured salmon sperm DNA and 5 20 10cpm of P labeled probe. Washing of filters is done at 65 C. for 1 hour in a solution containing 2 SSC 0.01 PVP 0.01 Ficoll and 0.01 BSA. This is followed by a wash in 0.1 SSC at 50 C. for 45 minutes before autoradiography. Other conditions of high stringency which can be used are well known in the art. See generally Sambrook et al. supra . 

The expression construct can optionally include one or more origins of replication and or selectable marker s e.g. an antibiotic resistance gene . Suitable selectable markers include for example those conferring resistance to ampicillin tetracycline neomycin G418 and the like. Suitable cell lines include for example HEK293 cells T REx 293 cells CHO cells and other cells or cell lines.

The UV visible spectra of rhodopsin comprising opsin and a synthetic retinal can be monitored to determine whether the synthetic retinal has formed a Schiff s base with the opsin protein. For example acid denatured purified protein can be analyzed to determine whether an absorbance maxima of approximately 490 nm is present providing evidence that the synthetic retinal derivative forms a Schiff s base with the opsin protein. Hydroxylamine treatment can be used to confirm the Schiff s base is sequestered from the external environment.

Suitable synthetic retinal derivatives also can be selected by molecular modeling of rhodopsin. The coordinates for rhodopsin crystal structure are available from the Protein Data Bank 1 HZX Teller et al. 40 7761 72 2001 . The effects of amino acid substitutions on the structure of rhodopsin and on the contacts between opsin and 11 cis retinal or a synthetic retinal can be determined by molecular modeling.

The coordinates for the rhodopsin crystal structure from the Protein Data Bank 1 HZX Teller et al. 40 7761 72 2001 can be used to generate a computer model. The addition of hydrogen atoms and optimization can be done for example using Insight II InsightII release 2000 Accelrys Inc. San Diego Calif. . Crystallographic water can be removed and water molecules introduced based on the accessible space in the extracellular region. Typically no minimization is performed before water is added. A water layer e.g. 5 thick can be used to coat the extracellular part of rhodopsin as well as residues in contact with polar phospholipids heads. All of the water molecules can be allowed to move freely as is the extracellular half of rhodopsin with retinal. If no water cap is put on the cytoplasmic part of rhodopsin this part of the molecule can be frozen to prevent degradation of the model.

A water cap can be put on the extracellular part of rhodopsin together with that part buried in membrane in contact with polar heads of phospholipids . Water and the extracellular part of rhodopsin can be allowed to move and the movement modeled at any suitable frequency. For example the movement of the modeled rhodopsin can be modeling at 100 ps simulations.

Synthetic retinals can be contacted with an opsin protein under conditions suitable and for a period of time sufficient for the formation of an opsin protein synthetic retinal complex. The stability of the opsin synthetic retinal complex can be determined by methods described herein or as known to the skilled artisan. The opsin in the opsin synthetic retinal complex is stabilized when it exhibits increased stability e.g. increased half life when bound to the synthetic retinal as compared with free opsin i.e. not bound to retinoid is less sensitive to hydroxylamine exhibits less accumulation in aggresomes or the like .

The synthetic retinal can be contacted with the opsin protein in vitro or in vivo. For example the opsin protein can be synthesized in an in vitro translation system e.g. a wheat germ or reticulocyte lysate expression system and the synthetic retinal added to the expression system. The opsin protein can be contacted with the opsin protein ex vivo and then the complex can be administered to a vertebrate eye.

In another aspect methods of using a synthetic retinal derivative are provided to restore or stabilize photoreceptor function or to ameliorate photoreceptor loss in a vertebrate visual system. A synthetic retinal derivative can be administered to a vertebrate eye s having a retinoid deficiency e.g. a deficiency of 11 cis retinal an excess of free opsin an excess of retinoid waste e.g. degradation products or intermediates in the recycling of all trans retinal or the like. The vertebrate eye typically comprises a wild type opsin protein. Methods of determining endogenous retinoid levels in a vertebrate eye and a deficiency of such retinoids are disclosed in for example U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 538 051 filed Feb. 12 2004 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein . Other methods of determining endogenous retinoid levels in a vertebrate eye and a deficiency of such retinoids include for example analysis by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC of retinoids in a sample from a subject. For example retinoid levels or a deficiency in such levels can be determined from a blood sample from a subject.

A blood sample can be obtained from a subject and retinoid types and levels in the sample can be separated and analyzed by normal phase high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC e.g. with a HP1100 HPLC and a Beckman Ultrasphere Si 4.6 mm 250 mm column using 10 ethyl acetate 90 hexane at a flow rate of 1.4 ml minute . The retinoids can be detected by for example detection at 325 nm using a diode array detector and HP Chemstation A.03.03 software. A deficiency in retinoids can be determined for example by comparison of the profile of retinoids in the sample with a sample from a control subject e.g. a normal subject .

As used herein absent deficient or depleted levels of endogenous retinoid such as 11 cis retinal refer to levels of endogenous retinoid lower than those found in a healthy eye of a vertebrate of the same species. A synthetic retinal derivative can spare the requirement for endogenous retinoid.

As used herein prophylactic and prophylactically refer to the administration of a synthetic retinal derivative to prevent deterioration or further deterioration of the vertebrate visual system as compared with a comparable vertebrate visual system not receiving the synthetic retinal derivative. The term restore refers to a long term e.g. as measured in weeks or months improvement in photoreceptor function in a vertebrate visual system as compared with a comparable vertebrate visual system not receiving the synthetic retinal derivative. The term stabilize refers to minimization of additional degradation in a vertebrate visual system as compared with a comparable vertebrate visual system not receiving the synthetic retinal derivative.

In one aspect the vertebrate eye is characterized as having Leber Congenital Amaurosis LCA . This disease is a very rare childhood condition that effects children from birth or shortly there after. It affects both rods and cones in the eye. For example certain mutations in the genes encoding RPE65 and LRAT proteins are involved in LCA. Mutations in both genes result in a person s inability to make 11 cis retinal in adequate quantities. Thus 11 cis retinal is either absent or present in reduced quantities. In RPE65 defective individuals retinyl esters build up in the RPE. LRAT defective individuals are unable to make esters and subsequently secrete any excess retinoids. For LCA a synthetic retinal derivative can be used to replace the absent or depleted 11 cis retinal.

In another aspect the vertebrate eye is characterized as having Retinitis Punctata Albesciens. This disease is a form of Retinitis Pigmentosa that exhibits a shortage of 11 cis retinal in the rods. A synthetic retinal derivative can be used to replace the absent or depleted 11 cis retinal.

In another aspect the vertebrate eye is characterized as having Congenital Stationary Night Blindness CSNB or Fundus Albipunctatus. This group of diseases is manifested by night blindness but there is not a progressive loss of vision as in the Retinitis Pigmentosa. Some forms of CSNB are due to a delay in the recycling of 11 cis retinal. Fundus Albipunctatus until recently was thought to be a special case of CSNB where the retinal appearance is abnormal with hundreds of small white dots appearing in the retina. It has been shown recently that this is also a progressive disease although with a much slower progression than Retinitis Pigmentosa. It is caused by a gene defect that leads to a delay in the cycling of 11 cis retinal. Thus a synthetic retinal derivative s can be administered to restore photoreceptor function by retinoid replacement.

In yet another aspect the vertebrate eye is characterized as having age related macular degeneration AMD . AMD can be wet or dry forms. In AMD vision loss occurs when complications late in the disease either cause new blood vessels to grow under the retina or the retina atrophies. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory excessive production of waste products from the photoreceptors may overload the RPE. This is due to a shortfall of 11 cis retinal available to bind opsin. Free opsin is not a stable compound and can spontaneously cause firing of the biochemical reactions of the visual cascade without the addition of light.

Administration of a synthetic retinal derivative to the vertebrate eye can reduce the deficiency of 11 cis retinal and quench spontaneous misfiring of the opsin. Administration of a synthetic retinal derivative can lessen the production of waste products and or lessen drusen formation and reduce or slow vision loss e.g. choroidal neovascularization and or chorioretinal atrophy .

In yet other aspects a synthetic retinal derivative is administered to an aging subject such as a human. As used herein an aging human subject is typically at least 45 or at least 50 or at least 60 or at least 65 years old. The subject has an aging eye which is characterized as having a decrease in night vision and or contrast sensitivity. Excess unbound opsin randomly excites the visual transduction system. This creates noise in the system and thus more light and more contrast are necessary to see well. Quenching these free opsin molecules with a synthetic retinal will reduce spontaneous misfiring and increase the signal to noise ratio thereby improving night vision and contrast sensitivity.

Synthetic retinal derivatives can be administered to human or other non human vertebrates. The synthetic retinal derivative can be substantially pure in that it contains less than about 5 or less than about 1 or less than about 0.1 of other retinoids. A combination of synthetic retinal derivatives can be administered.

Synthetic retinal derivatives can be delivered to the eye by any suitable means including for example oral intravenous intramuscular or local administration. Modes of local administration can include for example eye drops intraocular injection or periocular injection. Periocular injection typically involves injection of the synthetic retinal derivative into the conjunctiva or to the tennon the fibrous tissue overlying the eye . Intraocular injection typically involves injection of the synthetic retinal derivative into the vitreous. The administration can be non invasive such as by eye drops or oral dosage form.

Synthetic retinal derivatives can be formulated for example as pharmaceutical compositions for local administration to the eye and or for intravenous intramuscular or oral administration. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is not a topical formulation. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is not a cosmetic formulation.

Synthetic retinal derivatives can be formulated for administration using pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles as well as techniques routinely used in the art. A vehicle can be selected according to the solubility of the synthetic retinal derivative. Suitable pharmaceutical compositions include those that are administrable locally to the eye such as by eye drops injection or the like. In the case of eye drops the formulation can also optionally include for example opthalmologically compatible agents such as isotonizing agents such as sodium chloride concentrated glycerin and the like buffering agents such as sodium phosphate sodium acetate and the like surfactants such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono oleate also referred to as Polysorbate 80 polyoxyl stearate 40 polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil and the like stabilization agents such as sodium citrate sodium edentate and the like preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride parabens and the like and other ingredients. Preservatives can be employed for example at a level of from about 0.001 to about 1.0 weight volume. The pH of the formulation is usually within the range acceptable to ophthalmologic formulations such as within the range of about pH 4 to 8.

Suitable pharmaceutical compositions also include those formulated for injection. For example the synthetic retinal derivative can be provided in an injection grade saline solution in the form of an injectable liposome solution or other carriers or vehicles. Intraocular and periocular injections are known to those skilled in the art and are described in numerous publications including for example Ed. G. L. Spaeth W. B. Sanders Co. Philadelphia Pa. U.S.A. pages 85 87 1990 .

A synthetic retinal derivative also can be administered in a time release formulation for example in a composition which includes a slow release polymer. The synthetic retinal derivative can be prepared with a carrier s that will protect the compound against rapid release such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters polylactic acid and polylactic polyglycolic copolymers PLG . Many methods for the preparation of such formulations are known to those skilled in the art.

Suitable oral dosage forms include for example tablets pills sachets or capsules of hard or soft gelatin methylcellulose or of another suitable material easily dissolved in the digestive tract. Suitable nontoxic solid carriers can be used which include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin talcum cellulose glucose sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like. See e.g. 17 Ed. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1985 . 

The doses of the synthetic retinal derivatives can be suitably selected depending on the clinical status condition and age of the subject dosage form and the like. In the case of eye drops a synthetic retinal derivative can be administered for example from about 0.01 mg about 0.1 mg or about 1 mg to about 25 mg to about 50 mg or to about 90 mg per single dose. Eye drops can be administered one or more times per day as needed. In the case of injections suitable doses can be for example about 0.0001 mg about 0.001 mg about 0.01 mg or about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg to about 25 mg to about 50 mg or to about 500 mg of the synthetic retinal derivative one to four times per week. In other embodiments about 1.0 to about 300 mg of synthetic retinal derivative can be administered one to three to five times per week.

Oral doses can typically range from about 1.0 to about 1000 mg one to four times or more per day. An exemplary dosing range for oral administration is from about 10 to about 250 mg one to three times per day.

The following examples are provided merely as illustrative of various aspects of the invention and shall not be construed to limit the invention in any way.

9 cis retinyl ester restores visual pigment in an LCA mouse model. LRAT mice were gavaged with all trans retinyl palmitate all trans retinyl acetate or 9 cis retinyl acetate as indicated in the legend to . Following treatment retinoids were extracted from the eye and liver and analyzed by HPLC. As shown in left treatment of mice only with 9 cis retinyl acetate but not with all trans retinyl analogs restored the presence of syn 9 cis retinal oxime indicating formation of the chromophore and restoration vision in these mice. No significant retention of retinoids was observed in liver where LRAT is highly expressed indicating low or no toxicity by retinoids in this animal model of human LCA. 9 cis retinyl ester restores visual pigment in approximately 5 hr while excess of retinoid is removed and metabolized as illustrated for 9 cis retinol .

Vitamin A and its derivatives can isomerized upon exposure to light. For example Rao et al. 31 3441 44 1990 showed photoisomerization of all trans retinol acetate a derivative of Vitamin A using a broad wavelength UV light could produce a mixture of all trans 13 cis and 9 cis retinol acetate isomers. However this methods is generally inefficient and produces small amounts of such retinoid.

Solutions of all trans retinoids are made to concentrations of 1 mg mL in methanol. The solutions are added to a glass petri dish and subjected to 365 nm UV light using a Bio Rad GS Genelinker with the stock bulbs replaced with 8 watt F8T5 bulbs for varying lengths of time dependent on the target retinoid. This wavelength is beneficial as shorter wave length light quickly destroys retinoids. Following UV treatment the solutions are dried down dissolved in hexane and purified using normal phase HPLC. Conversion yields vary for each all trans derivative. Nonisomerized all trans derivatives or 13 cis and 11 cis derivatives can be reused in subsequent repetitions thereby increasing yields.

Production of 9 cis retinyl acetate from all trans retinyl acetate. All trans retinyl acetate Sigma R4632 was dissolved in methanol to a concentration of 1 mg mL. The solution was poured into a glass petri dish and irradiated with 365 nm UV light inducing isomerization . Two minutes of irradiation yields a mix of isomers 25 9 cis retinyl acetate as shown by HPLC .

R is hydrogen or lower alkyls ranging from Cto C. R is R or any higher alkyls such as palmitate oleate or complex groups such as succinate fumarate and other functional groups.

Levels of 9 cis RAL oximes measured as syn and anti 9 cis retinyl aldehyde in the eyes of Lrat mice after a single dose or multiple doses of 9 cis retinyl acetate 9 cis R Ac . Doses of 9 cis R Ac were administered to Lrat mice by oral gavage in vegetable oil 100 canola oil in a volume of 500 l 2.5 mg ml . The mice weighed about 30 50 g. After 3 days 9 cis RAL oximes levels were determined by HPLC. Briefly all experimental procedures related to extraction derivatization and separation of retinoids from dissected mouse eyes were carried out as described previously. See Van Hooser et al. J. Biol. Chem. 277 19173 182 2002 Van Hooser et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 8623 28 2000 Maeda et al. J. Neurochem. 85 944 56 2003 . All reactions involving retinoids were carried out under dim red light.

Referring to the level of 9 cis RAL in Lrat in mouse eyes after a varying dose of 9 cis R Ac is shown. Peaks were identified by retention time and UV spectra and compared to standards. The spike around 19 min resulted from changes in the solvent composition. Retinoid analysis was performed on an HP1100 HPLC equipped with a diode array detector and HP Chemstation A.07.01 software allowing identification of retinoid isomers according to their specific retention time and absorption maxima. A normal phase column Beckman Ultrasphere Si 5 g 4.6 mm 250 mm and an isocratic solvent system of 0.5 ethyl acetate in hexane v v for 15 min followed by 4 ethyl acetate in hexane for 60 min at a flow rate of 1.4 ml min total 80 min with detection at 325 nm allowed the partial separation of 11 cis retinyl esters 13 cis retinyl esters and all trans retinyl esters at 20 C.

Levels of 9 cis RAL per eye leveled off at doses of about 4 6 mole. Referring to the level of 9 cis RAL in Lrat mouse eyes after a varying size and number of doses of 9 cis R Ac is shown. Levels of 9 cis RAL accumulated over time. The levels of 9 cis RAL increased from about 50 mole per eye to about 600 mmole per eye. The gray solid line represents a maximal level of isorhodopsin as measured by the level of 9 cis retinal oximes in Lrat mouse eyes after 10 gavages dashed gray lines indicate the standard deviations. The maximal level of isorhodopsin is comparable to the level of rhodopsin in wildtype WT mice.

Levels of chromophore opsin retinal complexes were measured in the eyes of mice after dosing with all trans retinoid isoforms or 9 cis retinyl succinate. All trans retinyl palmitate all trans retinyl acetate all trans retinal vitamin A aldehyde all trans retinol vitamin A all trans retinyl succinate and 9 cis retinyl succinate were administered to Lrat mice by oral gavage. Five milligrams of the retinoid isoforms or 9 cis retinyl succinate were administered in 100 canola oil at a concentration of 40 mg ml. After 3 days chromophore levels as all trans retinal oximes or 9 cis retinal oximes were determined as described previously. See Van Hooser et al. 277 19173 182 2002 Van Hooser et al. 97 8623 28 2000 Maeda et al. 85 944 56 2003 . All reactions involving retinoids were carried out under dim red light.

Referring to the all trans retinoid isoforms had essentially no effect on restoration of chromophore levels. In contrast administration of 9 cis retinyl succinate restored chromophore levels.

A comparison of the bioavailability of orally delivered 9 cis retinaldehyde and 9 cis retinyl acetate in an LRAT model. 9 cis retinaldehyde and 9 cis retinyl acetate were administered at low 10 mmoles and high 15 moles doses to LRAT mice. Chromophore levels as 9 cis retinal oximes were determined as described previously. See Van Hooser et al. 277 19173 182 2002 Van Hooser et al. 97 8623 28 2000 Maeda et al. 85 944 56 2003 . All reactions involving retinoids were carried out under dim red light.

Referring to at low and high doses administration of 9 cis retinyl acetate more efficiently restores chromophore levels than 9 cis retinaldehyde. This effect is more pronounced at low 10 moles doses. Because administration of retinoids can lead to toxicity pro drugs such as retinyl esters e.g. 9 cis retinyl acetate provide a suitable bioavailable form to restore chromophore levels while reducing risk associated with retinoid toxicity.

The previous examples are provided to illustrate but not to limit the scope of the claimed inventions. Other variants of the inventions will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and encompassed by the appended claims. All publications patents patent applications and other references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

