---

title: System and method for distributing mobile compensation and incentives
abstract: A system and method for distributing incentives via mobile devices is described. One embodiment, a computer-server-based method, receives a request from a merchant to generate an incentive which incentive is funded and initiated by the merchant, receives the incentive, associates the incentive with a recipient's phone number, and transmits a notification of the incentive to a mobile device associated with the recipient's phone number, the computer server acting as a server-side wallet for the incentive, the incentive being usable, through interaction with the computer server, by the recipient for the purchase of goods or services from the merchant associated with the incentive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744940&OS=08744940&RS=08744940
owner: 
number: 08744940
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120113
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 423 filed on Dec. 23 2008 entitled System and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 425 filed on Dec. 23 2008 entitled System and Method for Re Distributing and Transferring Mobile Gift Cards each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes and each of which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 018 809 entitled System and Method for Distributing Mobile Gift Cards filed on Jan. 3 2008 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 025 201 entitled System and Method for Re Distributing and Transferring Mobile Gift Cards filed on Jan. 31 2008 both of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

This invention relates generally to electronic commerce. More specifically but not by way of limitation the present invention relates to systems and methods for distributing compensation and incentives via mobile devices.

Incentives have become increasingly popular in recent years as a way to reward loyal patrons for their business and as a way to entice new patrons to patronize a merchant s business. Most incentives are in a physical form such as a coupon or card that requires the patron to remember the incentive and carry it with them in order to redeem that incentive. For a mobile device user who wishes to conduct all financial transactions via his or her mobile device carrying additional items in order to redeem incentives is undesirable. Accordingly there is a need to provide systems and methods for distributing and redeeming mobile incentives.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

The present invention can provide a system and method for distributing mobile incentives. One illustrative embodiment is a computer server based method for distributing a mobile incentive comprising receiving a selection of a merchant with which to associate the mobile incentive receiving an indication of a monetary amount for the mobile incentive receiving an electronic payment for the monetary amount applying the monetary amount to the mobile incentive associating the mobile incentive with a recipient s phone number and transmitting a notification of the mobile incentive to a mobile device associated with the recipient s phone number wherein the computer server acts as a server side wallet for the mobile incentive and the mobile incentive is usable through interaction with the computer server by the recipient for the purchase of goods or services from the merchant associated with the mobile incentive.

Another illustrative embodiment is a system for distributing a mobile incentive comprising at least one processor and a memory containing a plurality of program instructions executable by the at least one processor the plurality of program instructions being configured to cause the at least one processor to receive a request from a merchant to generate a mobile incentive identify the mobile incentive associate the mobile incentive with a recipient s phone number and transmit a notification of the mobile incentive to a mobile device associated with the recipient s phone number wherein the system acts as a server side wallet for the mobile incentive and the mobile incentive is usable through interaction with the system by the recipient for the purchase of goods or services from the merchant associated with the mobile incentive.

In various illustrative embodiments of the invention the limitations of conventional physical and electronic compensation and incentives are overcome by replacing the physical form factor of plastic magnetically encoded cards with a mobile device such as a cellular telephone in a manner that leaves intact existing compensation and incentive systems and services operated by card service providers.

From time to time providers of goods and services wish to provide their customers with incentives. Providers of goods and services may also be referred to as merchants or the merchant in the discussion herein. An incentive can be for example a percentage discount on a future purchase a percentage discount to be taken on the current transaction a free good or service up to a specific dollar amount a buy one get one coupon a specific dollar amount to be provided as cash back for future transactions loyalty point addition subtraction or redemption or a specific redeemable dollar amount to be taken on the current transaction. Incentives as described herein as merchant funded and thus operate differently from gift cards or other forms of payment cards. One of skill in the art will recognize that an incentive can be in any form that can be transferred as an electronic coupon that pertains to the goods or services provided by the merchant or merchant. 

A mobile incentive platform in accordance with these illustrative embodiments provides among other things a server side digital wallet for mobile incentives that overcomes the shortcomings e.g. risk of loss or theft associated with virtual incentives or incentive certificates that reside within the mobile device itself. In these illustrative embodiments no credentials account numbers balances or other sensitive information associated with the mobile incentive reside in the mobile device itself. Instead a secure network infrastructure distributes and manages the mobile incentives and their associated credentials the mobile device acting merely as one means for the user to communicate with the server side digital wallet to access a variety of flexible services surrounding use of the mobile incentives.

Such flexible services include without limitation the ability of a user to view a list of all available mobile incentives in his or her server side digital wallet the ability to view the current balance of any particular mobile incentive the ability to purchase securely goods or services from the merchant associated with a particular incentive using the mobile device at the point of sale however the option to use a physical card is not preempted by the mobile incentive card platform described herein and the ability to transfer some or all of the balance of a particular mobile incentive to another person.

Referring now to the drawings where like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and referring in particular to it is a functional block diagram of an environment in which various illustrative embodiments of the invention can be implemented. In environment distributor merchant s agent merchant payment processor wireless carrier and incentive card service provider are able to communicate with one another via network . A user s mobile device e.g. a cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS phone is also able to communicate with nodes connected with network via wireless carrier . In some embodiments network includes but is not necessarily limited to the Internet.

The environment in builds on existing incentive card systems and payment card systems that can be operated by incentive card service provider or payment providers such as without limitation FIRST DATA and COMDATA. Incentive service provider among other things can administer the financial aspects of incentives for the merchant or the merchant can facilitate the financial aspects without the use of a service provider including keeping track of the balance associated with a particular incentive settlement reporting to merchants and other functions.

Merchant sells goods services or both and provides mobile incentives to consumers sometimes with the assistance of merchant s agent . That is merchant s agent can facilitate or merchant can facilitate the distribution and sale of mobile incentives issued by merchant by acting as an intermediary between merchant and any of the following 1 a incentive card service provider 2 mobile incentive card distributor 3 mobile incentive card purchasers those giving the mobile incentives to others and 4 mobile incentive card recipients consumers who use the mobile incentives in commerce . It should be noted by one of skill in the art that a merchant s agent is not necessary to the invention but is rather one description of a commercial reality for merchants. A consumer holding such a mobile incentive can use the mobile incentive to redeem goods or services or in connection with the purchase of goods or services from the particular merchant that issued the mobile incentive as explained above. How the holder of a mobile incentive redeems the mobile incentive from the issuing merchant is discussed further below.

Payment processor processes the source of funds for transactions carried out from a user s mobile device such as the user s application of a mobile incentive or purchase of a mobile incentive on behalf of someone else. In such transactions payment processor acts as an agent of the merchant to collect funds from the user s credit card or other payment source should the amount of the transaction exceed the amount associated with the mobile incentive. In some embodiments an entity acting as a payment processor in certain contexts may also be a distributor in other contexts.

In one embodiment distributor is an entity not necessarily a merchant but possibly the merchant that operates a Web site or other electronic communication channel where mobile incentives for a number of different merchants are offered in an aggregated fashion. In another embodiment a single merchant markets its mobile incentives via remote distribution channels local distribution channels or both. For example a merchant may market its mobile incentives via a remote distribution channel such as a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel using Application Programming Interfaces APIs supplied by merchant s agent or another entity. That is a merchant may use flexible APIs provided by merchant s agent to customize a Web site or other networked electronic communication channel to offer its mobile incentives in a manner consistent with the merchant s particular brand identify logos etc. A merchant may also employ local distribution methods in a store at the point of sale . In such an embodiment the mobile incentive can be mobilized made accessible to the recipient via the recipient s mobile device at the point of sale.

In some embodiments mobile user can use a variety of different access methods such as without limitation Short Message Service SMS messages Multimedia Message Service MMS messages Wireless Access Protocol WAP an application or voice to obtain one use perishable authorization codes request purchase code from mobile commerce platform in making payments from a variety of different tenders forms of payment including mobile incentives. Mobile user can also use a variety of methods including the above examples to provide one use perishable authorization codes to merchant in making electronic purchase . Additional details regarding such mobile payment technology can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 620 entitled Systems and Method for Secure Wireless Payment Transactions which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Mobile user may also receive targeted marketing messages before during or after a mobile purchase via mobile commerce platform and may purchase mobile incentives from a carrier e.g. T MOBILE AT T VERIZON WIRELESS etc. or other distributor such as a social networking Web site. The targeted marketing messages are assisted by the ability of merchant to submit marketing rules content or both to mobile commerce platform .

Merchant receives payment authorization from mobile commerce platform in conjunction with the mobile payments technology mentioned above in connection with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 624 620. The mobile payments process is summarized briefly below.

Mobile commerce platform facilitates the activation of mobile incentives sold by a carrier or other entity or other distributor in cooperation with incentive system via communication link . Incentive system also provides among other things settlement and reporting services to merchant .

When mobile user makes a purchase using a mobile incentive mobile user contacts mobile commerce platform using any of a variety of access methods e.g. SMS MMS WAP or other browser technology application voice to provide an optional personal identification number PIN by which mobile commerce platform authenticates mobile user request purchase code . Mobile commerce platform provides mobile user with one time perishable time limited authorization codes and balances request purchase code for various tenders available to that user including mobile incentives. In the present example customer or mobile user selects a specific mobile incentive to be used in making the purchase and a specific payment card to be used to complete the transaction. The mobile payments enabled merchant submits the authorization code provided by mobile user and the transaction amount to mobile commerce platform payment authorization . Mobile commerce platform routes the transaction parameters to incentive system which ensures that the requested amount is available on the indicated mobile incentive and the payment card has the available funds to complete the transaction. If everything checks out incentive system informs mobile commerce platform which in turn conveys a return authorization to the merchant completing the transaction payment authorization .

With this high level background in place the remainder of this Detailed Description focuses primarily on the distribution and transfer of mobile incentives primarily from the merchant to the consumer but the server can be configured to allow the transfer of an incentive from one consumer to another. is a functional block diagram of a computer server server that distributes and manages mobile incentives in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment server is part of mobile commerce platform see . In processor communicates over data bus with input devices display communication interfaces COMM. INTERFACES in storage devices e.g. hard disk drives or flash memory and memory . Though shows only a single processor multiple processors or a multi core processor may be present in some embodiments.

Input devices include for example a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device or other devices that are used to input data or commands to server to control its operation. Communication interfaces may include for example various serial or parallel interfaces for communicating with network see or one or more peripherals.

Memory may include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory magnetic storage e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage or a combination of these depending on the particular embodiment. In memory includes mobile incentive management platform which distributes and manages mobile incentives. In doing so mobile incentive management platform accesses and manipulates mobile incentive data which may reside at least in part on storage devices .

As mentioned above mobile incentive management platform implements a server side digital wallet for the mobile incentive data . A mobile incentive is thus a digital construct stored digital data that replaces a physical e.g. plastic magnetically encoded incentive. It should be noted that an incentive is a merchant funded device i.e the merchant is the entity that provides the financial account for funding the incentive. In other words instead of the consumer s account covering the amount of the transaction the merchant s account is debited or reduced to cover the amount of the incentive. The mobile incentive is also initiated by the merchant and transmitted to the consumer as part of the consumer registration in the mobile payments platform. The consumer does not initiate the activation of the incentive rather activation of the incentive is automatic once the merchant initiates and funds the incentive. In this illustrative embodiment server stores account information for each mobile incentive holder. That is each mobile incentive user initially creates an account on server . This account information includes for each mobile incentive belonging to a particular user 1 the user s mobile phone number 2 the account number of the particular mobile incentive analogous to a bar code of a physical coupon or incentive and 3 the merchant that issued the mobile incentive. In some embodiments server stores additional information or different information from that just indicated. Note however that in this particular embodiment the balance remaining on the mobile incentive is not stored on server . Instead the balance is tracked by the incentive service provider that operates the applicable incentive system . As mentioned above no credentials associated with a mobile incentive reside on the user s mobile device.

In one illustrative embodiment mobile incentive management platform is implemented as software that is executed by processor . Such software may be stored prior to its being loaded into RAM for execution by processor on any suitable computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive an optical disk or a flash memory. In general the functionality of mobile incentive management platform may be implemented as software firmware hardware or any combination or sub combination thereof. The methods carried out by mobile incentive management platform are explained more fully below in connection with and B.

A typical application for mobile incentive is a situation in which User A typically a merchant or provider of goods and services wishes to give User B typically a customer of the merchant an incentive e.g. User B has been a loyal patron and User A wishes to reward User B s loyalty . From a user perspective User A can communicate with server of mobile commerce platform in a variety of different ways to purchase a mobile incentive for User B. Examples include without limitation a Web site hosted by server or another server elsewhere on the network and visited by User A using a client personal computer PC a Web site or other portal accessed using User A s cellular or PCS phone a visit by User A at the merchant s store or other avenues e.g. User A s wireless carrier or a social networking Web site as discussed above. User A can employ methods such as without limitation SMS MMS WAP a microbrowser on a mobile device or voice in person or over the phone to initiate an incentive for User B. In general User A simply needs a way to communicate directly or indirectly with server . The foregoing example of User A providing a mobile incentive for User B will be referred to frequently in the description of that follows.

At the mobile incentive management platform receives the phone number of the intended recipient of the incentive and at associates the mobile incentive with User B s the recipient s phone number provided by User A or the merchant . At the mobile incentive management platform transmits or otherwise conveys a notification regarding the mobile incentive to a mobile device e.g. a cellular or PCS phone associated with User B s the recipient s phone number provided by User A above in Block . If the incentive is a free good or service for example a free appetizer User A supplies a monetary value to the free appetizer.

The notification at may be accomplished in a variety of ways including without limitation an SMS message an MMS message a voice message or an application. The application in some embodiments is a WAP browser or other type of Internet browser running on the mobile gift card recipient s mobile device. In other embodiments the application is a specialized application other than a browser.

In some embodiments the notification to the recipient includes a personalized message created by the merchant such as Thank you for your patronage. 

Following receipt of the mobile incentive User B can use the mobile incentive to purchase goods or services from the merchant associated with the mobile incentive in a variety of different ways as explained above see discussion of secure payments in connection with above .

Activation can also take different forms depending on the particular embodiment. In some embodiments for example the notification User B receives includes instructions to User B for how to activate the mobile incentive. For example the notification may be an SMS message stating Bob you ve received a 100 mobile incentive for SPORTS AUTHORITY. Please visit mocapay.com to activate your mobile incentive. Note that in such embodiments the notification includes a hyperlinked Uniform Resource Locator URL for User B to follow to complete the activation process. Alternatively User B could be provided with a phone number an e mail address or other contact information for accomplishing activation. When User B contacts mobile commerce platform to activate the mobile incentive User B is directed to create an account if User B does not already have one. Mobile commerce platform guides User B through this straightforward process.

In another embodiment if User B already has an account with mobile commerce platform the mobile incentive is activated automatically when the notification is transmitted to User B which makes the mobile incentive available to User B immediately upon receipt of the notification. To redeem the mobile incentive User B communicates with the server side digital wallet supported by mobile incentive management platform in the manner described above in connection with .

In another embodiment mobile incentive management platform receives a specific activation date from User A the party providing the mobile incentive . For example if User B s birthday is still five days in the future User A would like to postpone notification of the mobile incentive until User B s birthday. In such an embodiment notification of the mobile incentive is conveyed to User B on the activation date specified by User A.

As shown in if the incentive is to be used the platform applies the incentive to the transaction amount at and transmits an authorization code to the customer at . The customer then provides the authorization code to the merchant. At the platform receives a transaction approval request from the merchant. At the platform authorizes the transaction approval request and transmits an approval code to the merchant at . At the platform transmits an electronic receipt to both the merchant and the customer. The receipt provides all the pertinent details of the transaction and also shows that the incentive was used and the value of the incentive. The platform then stores the transaction details at and generates and executes settlement instructions at .

In conclusion the present invention provides among other things a system and method for distributing compensation and incentives. Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps. The invention disclosed herein may suitably be practiced in the absence of any element that is not specifically disclosed herein.

