---

title: Methods and apparatus for maintaining permissions for client/server processing in a communication device
abstract: A communication device has memory for storing a client application module, a server application module, and an operating system module which are executable by one or more processors. The client application module submits a request and, in response, the server application module causes the request to be processed with use of the operating system module. One or more client process handles of a client stack of the client application module are provided in a current process base of the operating system module. For the request, one or more permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles as well as one or more permission settings associated with the one or more server process handles are checked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09003487&OS=09003487&RS=09003487
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09003487
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120815
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 196 900 filed Aug. 22 2008 now issued to patent as U.S. Pat. No. 8 272 034. The entire contents of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 196 900 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication devices especially mobile communication devices operative in wireless communication networks which are adapted to utilize client server application modules as well as to maintain permissions for such modules.

A mobile communication device may operate in a wireless communication network which provides for high speed packet data communications. Such mobile device may offer a number of different capabilities or features for a user. Many of these capabilities are defined by the primary application modules which are installed in the mobile device. The mobile device may have a voice telephony application a data or message synchronization application e.g. for e mail messages or calendar items a Web browser or Internet search application or combinations thereof as examples. The application modules typically interact with an operating system OS module of the mobile device for processing.

In addition to the primary application modules third party or secondary application modules may be installed in the mobile device to obtain secondary features. Developers may design client application modules and server application modules in accordance with a predetermined application programming interface API protocol which facilitates efficient design modularity and compatibility for third party development.

According to the present disclosure a communication device has memory for storing a client application module a server application module and an operating system module which are executable by one or more processors. The client application module submits a request and in response the server application module causes the request to be processed with use of the operating system module. Prior to processing an interface module causes one or more client process handles of a client stack of the client application module to be provided in a current process base of the operating system module. Thus for the request the operating system module checks one or more permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles as well as one or more permission settings associated with the one or more server process handles. The operating system module allows the request to be processed if the one or more permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles and the one or more permission settings associated with the one or more server process handles indicate that permission is granted but otherwise denies the processing of the request if any one of the permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles and the one or more server process handles indicate that permission is denied. Advantageously the inventive approach facilitates client server modularity where permission settings of the client are properly inherited by the server without requiring modifications to the communication protocol established between the client and the server.

To illustrate exemplary system archtecture shows a block diagram of a communication system which includes a mobile station one example of a communication device or wireless mobile communication device which communicates through a wireless communication network . Mobile station may include a visual display a keyboard and perhaps one or more auxiliary user interfaces UI each of which are coupled to a controller . Controller is also coupled to radio frequency RF transceiver circuitry and an antenna . Typically controller is embodied as a central processing unit CPU which runs operating system module software in a memory component not shown . Controller will normally control overall operation of mobile station whereas signal processing operations associated with communication functions are typically performed in RF transceiver circuitry . Controller interfaces with device display to display received information stored information user inputs and the like. Keyboard which may be a telephone type keypad or full alphanumeric keyboard is normally provided for entering data for storage in mobile station information for transmission to network a telephone number to place a telephone call commands to be executed on mobile station and possibly other or different user inputs.

Mobile station sends communication signals to and receives communication signals from network over a wireless link via antenna . RF transceiver circuitry performs functions similar to those of a tower station and a base station controller BSC described later below including for example modulation demodulation and possibly encoding decoding and encryption decryption. It is also contemplated that RF transceiver circuitry may perform certain functions in addition to those performed by BSC . It will be apparent to those skilled in art that RF transceiver circuitry will be adapted to particular wireless network or networks in which mobile station is intended to operate. When mobile station is fully operational an RF transmitter of RF transceiver circuitry is typically keyed or turned on only when it is sending to network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly an RF receiver of RF transceiver circuitry is typically periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Mobile station may include a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Battery electrical power to electrical circuitry in mobile station and battery interface provides for a mechanical and electrical connection for battery . Battery interface is coupled to a regulator which regulates power to the device. Mobile station may be a handheld portable communication device which includes a housing e.g. a plastic housing which carries and contains the electrical components of mobile station including battery . Mobile station may operate using a Subscriber Identity Module SIM or an equivalent module which is connected to or inserted in mobile station at a SIM interface . SIM is one type of a conventional smart card used to identify an end user or subscriber of mobile station and to personalize the device among other things. Without SIM the mobile station terminal may not be fully operational for communication through wireless network . By inserting SIM into mobile station an end user can have access to any and all of his her subscribed services. SIM generally includes a processor and memory for storing information. Since SIM is coupled to SIM interface it is coupled to controller through communication lines . In order to identify the subscriber SIM contains some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using SIM is that end users are not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile station. SIM may store additional user information for the mobile station as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information.

Mobile station may consist of a single unit such as a data communication device a cellular telephone a multiple function communication device with data and voice communication capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA enabled for wireless communication or a computer incorporating an internal modem. As mentioned earlier mobile station may be a handheld portable communication device which includes a housing e.g. a plastic housing which carries and contains the electrical components of mobile station . Alternatively mobile station may be a multiple module unit comprising a plurality of separate components including but in no way limited to a computer or other device connected to a wireless modem. In particular for example in the mobile station block diagram of RF transceiver circuitry and antenna may be implemented as a radio modem unit that may be inserted into a port on a laptop computer. In this case the laptop computer would include display keyboard one or more auxiliary UIs and controller embodied as the computer s CPU. It is also contemplated that a computer or other equipment not normally capable of wireless communication may be adapted to connect to and effectively assume control of RF transceiver circuitry and antenna of a single unit device such as one of those described above. Such a mobile station may have a more particular implementation as described later in relation to mobile station of .

Mobile station communicates in and through wireless communication network . Wireless communication network may comprise a cellular telecommunications network. In the embodiment of wireless network is configured in accordance with General Packet Radio Service GPRS and a Global Systems for Mobile GSM technologies. Today such a mobile station may further operate in accordance with Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS . In such environment wireless network includes a base station controller BSC with an associated tower station a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Serving General Packet Radio Service GPRS Support Node SGSN and a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . MSC is coupled to BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . SGSN is coupled to BSC and to GGSN which is in turn coupled to a public or private data network such as the Internet . HLR is coupled to MSC SGSN and GGSN .

Station is a fixed transceiver station and station and BSC may be referred to as transceiver equipment. The transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile stations within its cell via station . The transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile station in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from mobile station within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different networks. For example one network may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other networks.

The wireless link shown in communication system of represents one or more different channels typically different radio frequency RF channels and associated protocols used between wireless network and mobile station . An RF channel is a limited resource that must be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and a limited battery power of mobile station . Those skilled in art will appreciate that a wireless network in actual practice may include hundreds of cells each served by a station i.e. or station sector depending upon desired overall expanse of network coverage. All pertinent components may be connected by multiple switches and routers not shown controlled by multiple network controllers.

For all mobile station s registered with a network operator permanent data such as mobile station user s profile as well as temporary data such as mobile station s current location are stored in HLR . In case of a voice call to mobile station HLR is queried to determine the current location of mobile station . A Visitor Location Register VLR of MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of those mobile stations that are currently in its area of responsibility. This includes parts of the permanent mobile station data that have been transmitted from HLR to the VLR for faster access. However the VLR of MSC may also assign and store local data such as temporary identifications. Optionally the VLR of MSC can be enhanced for more efficient co ordination of GPRS and non GPRS services and functionality e.g. paging for circuit switched calls which can be performed more efficiently via SGSN and combined GPRS and non GPRS location updates .

Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as MSC and keeps track of the individual locations of mobile stations. SGSN also performs security functions and access control. Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN provides interworking with external packet switched networks and is connected with SGSNs such as SGSN via an IP based GPRS backbone network. SGSN performs authentication and cipher setting procedures based on algorithms keys and criteria e.g. as in existing GSM . In conventional operation cell selection may be performed autonomously by mobile station or by the transceiver equipment instructing mobile station to select a particular cell. Mobile station informs wireless network when it reselects another cell or group of cells known as a routing area.

In order to access GPRS services mobile station first makes its presence known to wireless network by performing what is known as a GPRS attach . This operation establishes a logical link between mobile station and SGSN and makes mobile station available to receive for example pages via SGSN notifications of incoming GPRS data or SMS messages over GPRS. In order to send and receive GPRS data mobile station assists in activating the packet data address that it wants to use. This operation makes mobile station known to GGSN interworking with external data networks can thereafter commence. User data may be transferred transparently between mobile station and the external data networks using for example encapsulation and tunneling. Data packets are equipped with GPRS specific protocol information and transferred between mobile station and GGSN .

Note that wireless network may be based on any other suitable network technology or network such as a Long Term Evolution LTE based network an EVolution Data Only EV DO based network a UMTS based network or High Speed Packet Access HSPA . Alternatively wireless network may be a wireless local area network i.e. IEEE 802.11 a Bluetooth based network a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or a Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Mobile station will normally incorporate a communication subsystem which includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . Communication subsystem is analogous to RF transceiver circuitry and antenna shown in . As will be apparent to those skilled in field of communications particular design of communication subsystem depends on the communication network in which mobile station is intended to operate.

Mobile station may send and receive communication signals over the network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by antenna through the network are input to receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and like and in example shown in analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over communication network via antenna . DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in DSP .

Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of mobile station and therefore mobile station may require a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM card to be inserted in a SIM interface in order to operate in the network. SIM includes those features described in relation to . Mobile station is a battery powered device so it also includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Such a battery provides electrical power to most if not all electrical circuitry in mobile station and battery interface provides for a mechanical and electrical connection for it. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to all of the circuitry.

Mobile station includes a microprocessor which is one implementation of controller of which controls overall operation of mobile station . Communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through communication subsystem . The communication techniques of the present disclosure may generally be controlled by microprocessor in connection with DSP . Microprocessor also interacts with additional device subsystems such as a display a flash memory a random access memory RAM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a serial port a keyboard a speaker a microphone a short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated at . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as keyboard and display for example may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. Operating system module used by microprocessor may be stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system module specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM .

Microprocessor in addition to its operating system module functions enables execution of software applications on mobile station . A predetermined set of applications which control basic device operations including at least data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on mobile station during its manufacture. One application that may be loaded onto mobile station may be a personal information manager PIM application having the ability to organize and manage data items relating to user such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. Naturally one or more memory stores are available on mobile station and SIM to facilitate storage of PIM data items and other information. The PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network. In the present disclosure PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile station user s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system thereby creating a mirrored host computer on mobile station with respect to such items. This is especially advantageous where the host computer system is the mobile station user s office computer system. Additional applications may also be loaded onto mobile station through network an auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in RAM or a non volatile store not shown for execution by microprocessor . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of mobile station and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using mobile station .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by communication subsystem and input to microprocessor . Microprocessor will further process the signal for output to display or alternatively to auxiliary I O device . A user of mobile station may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using keyboard in conjunction with display and possibly auxiliary I O device . Keyboard may comprise a complete alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. These composed items may be transmitted over a communication network through communication subsystem . For voice communications the overall operation of mobile station is substantially similar except that the received signals would be output to speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile station . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through speaker display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information as some examples.

Serial port in is normally implemented in a personal digital assistant PDA type communication device for which synchronization with a user s desktop computer is a desirable albeit optional component. Serial port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of mobile station by providing for information or software downloads to mobile station other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile station through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication. Short range communications subsystem of is an additional optional component which provides for communication between mobile station and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices.

Network entry point is generally used to multiplex and demultiplex amongst many gateways corporate servers and bulk connections such as the Internet for example. There are normally very few of these network entry points since they are also intended to centralize externally available wireless network services. Network entry points often use some form of an address resolution component that assists in address assignment and lookup between gateways and mobile stations. In this example address resolution component is shown as a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP as one method for providing an address resolution mechanism.

A central internal component of wireless data network is a network router . Normally network routers are proprietary to the particular network but they could alternatively be constructed from standard commercially available hardware. The purpose of network routers is to centralize thousands of fixed transceiver stations normally implemented in a relatively large network into a central location for a long haul connection back to network entry point . In some networks there may be multiple tiers of network routers and cases where there are master and slave network routers but in all such cases the functions are similar. Often network router will access a name server in this case shown as a dynamic name server DNS as used in the Internet to look up destinations for routing data messages. Fixed transceiver stations as described above provide wireless links to mobile station .

Wireless network tunnels such as a wireless tunnel are opened across wireless network in order to allocate necessary memory routing and address resources to deliver IP packets. Such tunnels are activated as part of what are referred to as Packet Data Protocol or PDP contexts i.e. packet data sessions . To open wireless tunnel mobile station must use a specific technique associated with wireless network . The step of opening such a wireless tunnel may require mobile station to indicate the domain or network entry point with which it wishes to open wireless tunnel . In this example the tunnel first reaches network router which uses name server to determine which network entry point matches the domain provided. Multiple wireless tunnels can be opened from one mobile station for redundancy or to access different gateways and services on the network. Once the domain name is found the tunnel is then extended to network entry point and necessary resources are allocated at each of the nodes along the way. Network entry point then uses the address resolution or DHCP component to allocate an IP address for mobile station . When an IP address has been allocated to mobile station and communicated to gateway information can then be forwarded from gateway to mobile station .

Referring now to what is shown is an illustrative representation of an exemplary user interface of mobile station of which includes at least display keyboard speaker microphone and a cursor or view positioning mechanism such as a positioning wheel e.g. a scrollwheel or a trackball . Although shown enlarged in for clarity this mobile station may be sized to be a handheld portable device. As an alternative to or in addition to positioning wheel and or trackball a wide range of one or more pointing or cursor view positioning mechanisms such as a touch pad a joystick button a mouse a touchscreen a tablet or other whether presently known or unknown may be employed. The cursor may be or include a pointer a movable item or other visual cue used to mark a position or point to another item on a display in order to for example indicate position for data entry or for selection of the other item.

Keys of keyboard are disposed on a front face of a housing and positioning wheel is disposed at a side of housing . In some embodiments keyboard may comprise a physical keyboard or a virtual keyboard which may utilize a touchscreen or both. Keyboard is in the example form of a reduced QWERTY keyboard including a plurality of keys that serve as input members. It can be seen that the arrangement of the characters on keys of keyboard is generally of the QWERTY arrangement albeit with many of keys including two of characters . In the example depiction of keyboard many of keys include two characters such as including a first character and a second character assigned thereto. Characters may include letters digits symbols and the like and can additionally include ideographic characters components thereof and the like. One of keys of keyboard includes as the characters thereof the letters Q and W and an adjacent key includes as the characters thereof the letters E and R . Keyboard may be of other configurations such as an AZERTY keyboard a QWERTZ keyboard a Dvorak keyboard or other keyboard or keypad arrangement and either reduced or not reduced i.e. full . In a full or non reduced keyboard or keypad arrangement each key has a single letter not multiple letters of the alphabet assigned to it.

Among keys of keyboard are a key and an key . The key wherein for example may be a symbol or may be the word next provided e.g. printed on the key may be pressed to provide a selection input to the processor and provides substantially the same selection input as is provided by a rotational input of positioning wheel . Since key is provided adjacent a number of other keys of keyboard the user can provide a selection input to the processor substantially without moving the user s hands away from the keyboard during a text entry operation. Another key the key is disposed on the side of housing adjacent positioning wheel although the same or similar key may be disposed as part of keyboard . Among keys of the keyboard additionally is a key that can be provided to delete a text entry.

Positioning wheel may serve as another input member and is both rotatable as is indicated by an arrow to provide selection inputs to the processor and also can be pressed in a direction generally toward housing as is indicated by an arrow to provide another selection input to the processor. Display may include a cursor that depicts generally where the next input or selection from user interface will be received. Display is shown in as displaying a home screen that represents a number of applications shows some of the example possible applications depicted as corresponding discrete icons . Icons include for example an Electronic Mail E Mail icon a Calendar icon an Address Book icon a Tasks icon a Web browser search icon a MemoPad icon and a Local Device Search icon respectively.

As shown further in memory of mobile station includes a plurality of application modules or routines associated with the visually displayed icons of for the processing of data. Application modules may be in any of a variety of forms such as without limitation software firmware and the like. Application modules may include for example an Electronic Mail E Mail application module associated with E mail icon a Calendar application module associated with Calendar icon an Address Book application module associated with Address Book icon a Tasks application module associated with Tasks icon a MemoPad Memos application module associated with MemoPad icon a Web Browser application module associated with Web Browser icon a Voice Telephony application module associated with Voice Telephone icon and a Local Device Search application module associated with Local Device Search icon . An operating system OS module also resides in memory .

In the home screen output is shown as currently active and constitutes the main ribbon application for displaying the icons shown. An application module such as E mail application module of may then be initiated opened or viewed from user interface by providing a suitable user input to it. For example E mail application module may be initiated opened or viewed by rotating positioning wheel to highlight E mail icon and providing a selection input by translating positioning wheel in the direction indicated by arrow . As another example display displays icon associated with Search application module and accepts input from positioning wheel to initiate a search from that icon . Application modules may be additionally or alternatively initiated opened or viewed from user interface by providing another suitable input to it such as by suitably rotating or rolling trackball and providing a selection input by for example pushing the trackball e.g. somewhat similar to positioning wheel except into the plane of .

Movement navigation and or scrolling with use of a cursor view positioning mechanism is beneficial given the relatively large size of visually displayed information and the compact size of display of and since information and messages are typically only partially presented in the limited view of display at any given moment. As previously described positioning wheel is one helpful cursor view positioning mechanism to achieve such movement. Positioning wheel which may be referred to as a scrollwheel specifically includes a circular disc which is rotatable about a fixed axis of housing and may be rotated by the end user s index finger or thumb. When the information or message is being partially displayed an upwards rotation of positioning wheel causes an upwards scrolling such that display presents viewing of an upper portion of the information or message. Similarly a downwards rotation of positioning wheel causes a downwards scrolling such that display presents viewing of a lower portion of the information or message. Positioning wheel is mounted along a fixed linear axis such that the end user can depress positioning wheel inwards toward housing e.g. with the end user s index finger or thumb for selection of information. Again see the direction indicated by an arrow of positioning wheel shown.

Although a specific mobile station has just been described any suitable mobile communication device or terminal may be part of the inventive methods and apparatus which will be described in fuller detail below. Note that various components of mobile device shown and described may not be needed nor included e.g. a full QWERTY keypad may be optional .

Mobile station may offer a number of different capabilities or features for a user many of which are defined by the primary application modules which are installed therein. These application modules typically interact with OS module of the mobile device for processing. In addition to the primary application modules third party or secondary application modules may be installed in mobile station to obtain secondary features. Developers may design client application modules and server application modules in accordance with a predetermined application programming interface API protocol which facilitates efficient design modularity and compatibility for third party development. It has been identified however that the security context or permission rights of such application modules may not be properly maintained in this type of environment.

During processing client application module communicates with one or more server application modules such as server application module through use of a predetermined client server C S application programming interface API protocol. Client application module submits one or more requests to be processed by server application module . In response server application module attempts to process such requests and submit responses to client application module . These requests and responses are communicated in accordance with the predetermined client server API protocol. In one embodiment the predetermined client server API protocol is defined by the Java Specification Request JSR 211 standard and associated with the Content Handler API CHAPI the client and server application modules and being adapted to communicate in accordance with the same.

In processing such requests server application module communicates with operating system module through use of a predetermined OS API protocol. In response to a request from client application module server application module submits one or more requests to be processed by operating system module . In response to requests from server application module operating system module attempts to process such requests and submits corresponding responses to server application module . These requests and responses are communicated in accordance with the predetermined OS API protocol. If and where needed operating system module may communicate or facilitate communication with a remote server or host through the radio transceiver of mobile station via base station or access point of wireless communication network via another network e.g. the Internet .

At least some of client and server application modules and may be third party or secondary application modules of mobile station which may be added on or installed in mobile station as secondary applications or features. In contrast other application modules of mobile station may be primary application modules which were installed or otherwise provided initially in mobile station . In one embodiment the primary application modules of mobile station include e mail application modules calendaring scheduling application modules voice telephony application modules address book contact list application modules or combinations of the above. See e.g. the description in relation to . Primary application modules of mobile station may interface directly with operating system module without interfacing with server application modules with use of the predetermined OS API protocol.

Illustrating application modules of the third party or secondary type client application module may be a map rendering application module and server application module may be a GPS application module. As another example client application module may be a communications application module such as a contact list or address book synchronization application module and server application module may be an address book or contact list application module. As yet another example client application module may be or include a display application module for graphics pictures or video e.g. a browser application module where server application module is a specific e.g. proprietary graphics picture or video rendering application module and the request is or includes a request for the graphics picture or video to be rendered within the display application module.

At least some of the modules and are associated with permission settings which indicate whether permission for use or access of another module information or service is authorized for the module or process. Each module may have one or more permission settings which may be stored in memory of mobile station . The permission settings may be programmable or configurable by a user of mobile station or an administrator thereof which may be received via a user interface of mobile station or received through a communication interface radio or wired connection such as USB of mobile station from an application residing on another computer.

One of the client application modules may be an application module which is associated with a permission setting indicating whether access to a network e.g. the Internet is allowed or which locations or sites are allowed or denied. Another one of the client application modules may be a communications application module such as a contact list or address book synchronization application module which is associated with a permission setting indicating whether access to address book or user contact information in a contact list or address book application module is allowed. Further another one of the client application modules may be a map rendering application module which is associated with a permission setting indicating whether access to a global positioning system GPS service or a network map server or database is allowed.

During processing client application module is associated with and utilizes a client stack which includes a plurality of client process handles . Client process handles are identifiers of current client modules or processes utilized by client application module for processing. Each client process handle is associated with the one or more permission settings in memory. Similarly server application module is associated with and utilizes a server stack which includes a plurality of server process handles . Server process handles are identifiers of current server modules or processes utilized by server application module for processing. Each server process handle is associated with one or more permission settings in memory. On the other hand operating system module is associated with and utilizes a process base during processing. Process base has information needed by operation system module for properly processing requests including the security context utilized for security or permission checks.

An interface module is provided to facilitate processing of requests between client and server application modules and maintain proper permissions for such client server processing. Interface module is designed and stored separate and apart from any client and server application module and does not affect or require any modifications to the client server API protocol. To facilitate proper permissions checks interface module is adapted to cause client process handles in client stack to be provided in process base of operating system in response to identifying a request from a client application module. Such processing is described in more detail below in relation to .

The method of may be performed by a suitable communication device or terminal including mobile station described in relation to . In particular the techniques described in relation to the flowchart may be performed by one or more processors controller processor microprocessor etc. of a communication device. A computer program product which may embody the technique may include a computer readable medium having computer instructions stored therein which are executable by the one or more processors for performing the technique.

The method begins at step of where client application module submits a request for a function to be performed. Interface module identifies this request step of and selects an appropriate one of the server application modules to service the request step of . In this example the request is received and serviced by server application module to perform the function. The communication and processing of requests may be performed in accordance with a predetermined client server API protocol e.g. the JSR 211 standard which is associated with the CHAPI .

Client application module may be a map rendering application module and server application module may be a GPS application module where the request is or includes a request for map data e.g. image or vector based map data at a specified location e.g. a current location of the communication device which is obtained through use of GPS . As another example client application module may be a communications application module such as a contact list or address book synchronization application module and server application module may be an address book or contact list application module where the request is or includes a request for synchronizing contact list or address book data with a corresponding application at a remote server on a network such as the Internet. As even another example client application module may be or include a display application module for graphics pictures or video e.g. a browser application module where server application module is a specific e.g. proprietary graphics picture or video rendering application module and the request is or includes a request for the graphics picture or video to be rendered within the display application module.

Operating system module will be processing one or more requests received from server application module which are submitted in order to facilitate processing of the original request from client application module . Since operating system module will be processing one or more requests received from server application module the security context of server application module is provided or made available to operating system module . Specifically server process handles of server stack are provided in process base of operating system module . This is done so that the security context or permission settings associated with the server are checked for request processing.

In response to identifying the request from client application module interface module causes the security context of client application module that originated the request to be provided or made available to operating system module . In particular interface module identifies the proper client application module from the request in this case client application module and causes client process handles of client stack associated with client application module to be provided in process base step of . Specifically interface module copies client process handles into process base . Thus both client and server process handles and are made available in process base prior to processing of the one or more requests by operating system module so that the security contexts or permission settings associated with both client and server are checked for request processing.

The security context or permission settings will depend on the application and the implementation of the present techniques. If the application module is the Web browser application module or Web server application module for example it may be associated with a permission setting indicating whether access to the network e.g. the Internet is allowed e.g. whether requests are permitted to be serviced through the network or which locations or sites are allowed or denied. If the application module is the communications application module such as the contact list or address book synchronization application module it may be associated with a permission setting indicating whether access to user contact or address book information in a contact list or address book application module is allowed or denied or a permission setting indicating whether access to the network e.g. the Internet or an Intranet is allowed e.g. whether requests are permitted to be serviced through the network or both. If the application module is a map rendering application module it may be associated with a permission setting indicating whether access a global positioning system GPS service or a network map server or database is allowed or denied.

For request processing server application module communicates with operating system module via the OS API protocol step of . Operating system module begins processing of the one or more requests submitted from server application module for processing the original request from client application module . In processing the request operating system module examines process base and identifies server process handles therein. As described earlier each server process handle is associated with one or more permission settings. Operating system module checks or tests the security context of server application module by testing the permission settings associated with each one of server process handles in process base step of . If any one of the permission settings associated with server process handles indicates that permission is denied further processing of the request is denied or prohibited and a denial indication is produced and communicated as the result step of . Processing of the request is stopped and not completed. The denial indication or a corresponding indication may be communicated to and provided at a user interface of the communication device.

On the other hand if all of the permission settings associated with server process handles indicate that permission is allowed in step processing of the request continues. Operating system module further examines process base and identifies client process handles therein. As described earlier each client process handle is associated with one or more permission settings. Operating system module checks or tests the permission settings associated with each one of client process handles in process base step of . If any one of the permission settings associated with client process handles indicates that permission is denied processing of the request is denied or prohibited and a denial indication is produced and communicated as the result step of . Processing of the request is stopped and not completed. The denial indication or a corresponding indication may be communicated to and provided at a user interface of the communication device. On the other hand if all of the permission settings associated with client process handles indicate that permission is granted processing of the request is allowed to continued and indeed continues.

Assuming all permissions are granted and no other process denials occur the request is processed and a result is produced and submitted to server application module step of . The request is further processed by server application module based on the result step of producing a new result which is communicated or otherwise provided to client application module which receives it step of . Again the communication and processing of requests may be performed in accordance with the predetermined client server API protocol. The result or information based on the result may be output at the user interface of the communication device.

If client application module is a Web browser application module the result may be data for visual displaying information at the communication device. If the application module is the map rendering application module the result may be map data e.g. image or vector based map data of a location e.g. a current location of the communication device obtained through use of GPS . If the application module is the communications application module such as the contact list or address book synchronization application module the result may be updated address book or contact list information from the corresponding application at the remote server for storing in the memory of the communication device or a confirmation message that updated address book or contact list information at the communication device has been updated at the corresponding application at the remote server.

Note that the process of is repeated for each one of a plurality of requests from client application module and interface module may process multiple requests from a plurality of different application modules in a multi tasked parallel processing approach.

As apparent third party or secondary application modules may be installed in the communication device to obtain secondary features in addition to primary features of the communication device without compromising security or permissions. Developers may provide client and server application modules which communicate based on the predetermined API protocol which facilitates efficient design modularity and compatibility for third party development and this predetermined API protocol needs not be altered to maintain the proper permissions as described herein. The interface module utilized in the present techniques may be designed and operate separately and independently from such client or server application modules.

Thus as described herein a communication device has memory for storing a client application module a server application module and an operating system module which are executable by one or more processors. The client application module submits a request and in response the server application module causes the request to be processed with use of the operating system module. The communication and processing of requests may be performed in accordance with a predetermined API protocol. Prior to processing an interface module causes one or more client process handles of a client stack of the client application module to be provided in a current process base of the operating system module. Thus for the request the operating system module checks one or more permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles as well as one or more permission settings associated with the one or more server process handles. The operating system module allows the request to be processed if the one or more permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles and the one or more permission settings associated with the one or more server process handles indicate that permission is granted but otherwise denies the processing of the request if any one of the permission settings associated with the one or more client process handles and the one or more server process handles indicate that permission is denied. Advantageously the inventive approach facilitates client server modularity where permission settings of the client are properly inherited by the server without requiring modifications to the communication protocol established between the client and the server.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. For example one of the client application modules may be a Web browser application module where the server application module may be a Web server application module and the request is or includes a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request for information at a remote server on a network such as the Internet. Those of skill in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. The techniques described and claimed herein intend to embrace suitable future changes in technology.

