---

title: System and method for distributing meeting recordings in a network environment
abstract: A method is provided and includes discovering active participants and passive participants from a meeting recording, generating an active notification that includes an option to manipulate the meeting recording, and a passive notification without the option to manipulate the meeting recording, and sending the active notification and the passive notification to the active participants and the passive participants, respectively. The method can also include discovering followers from the meeting recording, generating a followers notification without the option to manipulate the meeting recording, and which includes access to a portion of meeting recording, and sending the followers notification to the followers. Discovering the active participants and the passive participants includes running speaker segmentation and recognition algorithms on the meeting recording, discovering attendees including speakers and non-speakers, and categorizing the speakers as the active participants, and the non-speakers as the passive participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902274&OS=08902274&RS=08902274
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08902274
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121204
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of media content analytics and more particularly to a system and a method for distributing meeting recordings in a network environment.

The ability to effectively gather associate and organize information presents a significant obstacle for component manufacturers system designers and network operators. As new media content analytics platforms and technologies become available new protocols should be developed in order to optimize the use of these emerging platforms. With the emergence of high bandwidth networks and devices enterprises can optimize global collaboration through creation of videos and personalization of connections between customers partners employees and students through recordings of organizational communications video conferences and training sessions as well as through user generated video content. Widespread use of video and audio drives advances in technology for video audio processing video creation uploading searching and viewing.

A method for distributing meeting recordings in a network environment is provided and includes discovering e.g. identifying detecting recognizing ascertaining evaluating processing information to find etc. active participants and passive participants from a meeting recording. The method could also include generating an active notification that includes an option to manipulate the meeting recording and a passive notification without the option to manipulate the meeting recording and sending the active notification and the passive notification to the active participants and the passive participants respectively. Discovering the active participants and the passive participants could include for example running speaker segmentation and recognition algorithms on the meeting recording discovering attendees including speakers and non speakers and categorizing the speakers as the active participants and the non speakers as the passive participants.

Discovering the active and passive participants can also include comparing the discovered speakers to speaker models from pre recording videos and suggesting names of potential speakers if a match between the discovered speakers and the speaker models is below a predetermined threshold. The discovered speakers may be reconciled with an invitee list to generate an attendee list and the method may further include determining if substantially all attendees in the attendee list spoke in the meeting recording and determining the passive participants as those attendees who did not speak. In specific embodiments the active and passive notifications include a provision to access and view the meeting recording.

In specific implementations the method could also include discovering followers from the meeting recording generating a followers notification without the option to manipulate the meeting recording and which includes access to a portion of meeting recording and sending the followers notification to the followers. Discovering the followers can include running automatic speech recognition and named entity extraction algorithms on the meeting recording discovering spoken names in the meeting recording and associating the followers with a portion of the spoken names not corresponding to attendees in the meeting recording.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating a communication system for distributing meeting recordings in a network environment in accordance with one example embodiment. Communication system includes a meeting conducted by e.g. hosted by a host . Meeting may be recorded onto a content server . A meeting recording distribution module may access a meeting recording from content server and an invitee list of meeting . Meeting recording distribution module may generate notifications associated with meeting recording to active participants passive participants and followers .

Certain terminologies are used with regard to the various embodiments of communication system . As used herein the term meeting is inclusive of conferences or conventions where attendees e.g. people who attend the meeting in person or virtually can participate e.g. present speak etc. . This could include training sessions and events where a few attendees can speak and many attendees merely listen. Meeting may be a teleconference a video conference a classroom an event center a training center a chat room a discussion a seminar a business meeting an assembly a get together a gathering etc. where a plurality of attendees can congregate either physically or virtually and discuss topics of interest. Meeting may be virtual e.g. occurring in a virtual space such as the Internet cloud networks etc. or real e.g. occurring in an indoor or outdoor physical space such as in a school stadium park conference center etc. .

As used herein the term active participant refers to any attendee who speaks audibly at meeting . For example presenters panelists teachers etc. may be active participants. The term passive participant refers to any attendee who does not speak audibly at meeting or who was invited to but did not attend meeting . For example an attendee who does not make any presentation a silent student in a classroom an absent student etc. may be passive participants. The term follower refers to any person whose name is mentioned at meeting but does not attend meeting . The term host refers to any person e.g. network administrator attendee application or network element that initiates meeting sends out invitations to prospective meeting participants facilitates recording of meeting and in general controls or guides meeting .

As used herein an application can be inclusive of an executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer. This could include library modules loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules. As used herein the term network element is meant to encompass network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges load balancers firewalls processors modules or any other suitable device proprietary component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

As used herein the term meeting recording can include captured screen shots video or audio recordings of meeting . In general captured screen shots may include video without accompanying audio video recordings may include video and accompanying audio and audio recordings may include audio only without accompanying video. The meeting recording may be in a digital file format for example according to the particular software used to run meeting . For example a CiscoWebEx meeting recording may be in .arf format or .wrf format a Citrix GoTo meeting recording may be in GoToMeeting codec format Microsoft LiveMeeting meeting recording may be in .wma format etc. Any suitable file format may be used for recording meeting within the broad scope of the embodiments.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of communication system it is important to understand the communications in a given system such as the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Business meetings conferences and such other meetings are increasingly being recorded. The meeting recordings can be distributed across an enterprise or other network via a video portal e.g. YouTube . Typically a recorded video is uploaded to the portal using administrative privileges and in the process information about the attendees can be lost. For example information such as names of presenters topics discussed etc. may not be captured in metadata of the meeting recording.

In some cases the host may merely facilitate the technological aspects of the meeting e.g. setting up an online meeting center uploading the meeting recording to the portal etc. but may not be actively engaged in the meeting. For example the host may not be in the best position to know topics discussed at the meeting who should receive the meeting recording etc. However the onus of distributing the meeting recording to the participants may typically fall on the host. As a result in many cases the meeting recording may not be distributed to the attendees for their consumption.

For example consider a business meeting associated with a staff meeting. The host may be the company s information technology specialist who may not be interested in or even present at the meeting. The host may set up a camcorder to record the meeting get a telephone conference line connected start an online conference center etc. to facilitate the meeting. The attendees may include the department head a secretary and staff members. Each attendee may have varied interests in consuming the meeting recording. In general the interest may be directly proportional to the attendee s level of participation in the meeting.

For example the secretary may be interested in viewing the meeting recording later to generate minutes of the meeting the department head may be interested in the meeting recording to recapture the ideas that were discussed at the meeting. The department head may have spoken during the meeting and may be interested in adding metadata to the meeting recording to enhance consumption and search of the video appropriately. The host may not be aware of such varied interests. In some cases the host may not even be aware of the attendee list. The host may generate a meeting recording and upload it to a video portal however the attendees may not be aware that the meeting recording has been uploaded. In some cases the host may manually send a notification to the attendees if the attendee list is known .

However generally there may be no differentiation between the meeting recordings available to the attendees in proportion to their participation at the meeting. For example neither the department head nor the secretary may be able to add metadata to the meeting recording. Alternatively both the department head and the secretary may be able to add metadata to the meeting recording although the secretary may not be interested in adding any metadata and need not be provided the facility to manipulate the meeting recording. No mechanism exists for recording meetings and automatically notifying interested parties according to their respective perceived levels of interest.

Communication system is configured to address these issues and others in offering a system and a method for distributing meeting recordings in a network environment. Embodiments of communication system can discover active participants and passive participants from meeting recording generate an active notification comprising an option to manipulate the meeting recording and a passive notification without the option to manipulate the meeting recording and send the active notification and the passive notification to active participants and passive participants respectively. Followers may also be discovered from meeting recording and a followers notification may be generated and sent to followers . The followers notification may include permission to access a portion of meeting recording e.g. rather than whole meeting recording .

Embodiments of communication system may use speaker segmentation and recognition SSR algorithms to detect speakers in the meeting recording. A portion of the SSR algorithm may match speakers found in the meeting recording with speakers discovered from previous meeting recordings. If the match is below a predetermined threshold names of potential speakers may be suggested for example based on names corresponding to speaker models having the closest match. In some embodiments active participants may be contacted as their names are made available e.g. suggested by SSR and meeting recording may be sent to them. Active participants may have privileges to confirm their names and contribute other types of metadata.

According to various embodiments meeting recording distribution module may detect names mentioned audibly in meeting recording using existing algorithms e.g. speech recognition name entity extraction etc. . For example Lewis Carroll may say Let me talk to Alice about this. Alice may be correlated suitably with the speaker s name to obtain Alice Wonderland as the suggested spoken name. The portion of the meeting recording relevant to Alice Wonderland may be sent to Alice Wonderland by meeting recording distribution module . In some embodiments participant information may also be obtained from invitee list . For example WebEx shows the names of speakers on the display screen. The names may be detected and recognized using optical character recognition. Meeting recording distribution module may send meeting recording to the discovered speakers.

In some embodiments attendees may be identified by voice or face recognition algorithms. For example attendees who attended meeting but did not speak may be suitably recognized. The video and face recognition algorithms typically make errors which if left uncorrected can propagate to analysis of other meeting recordings and generate more errors. According to embodiments of communication system active participants and passive participants may be provided with an option to confirm their names and the names of other active participants . Once confirmed active participants can edit keywords topics and other metadata associated with them or their respective portions of meeting recording . Active participants may have author or administrative privileges and can contribute more metadata such as upload a presentation to meeting recording modify a recommended video list and so on. The metadata contributed by each active participant can also be used to improve the speaker recognition for future videos.

Embodiments of communication system may generate three mailing lists corresponding active participants passive participants and followers . When meeting recording is made available appropriate notifications e.g. via email may be automatically generated and sent to people listed in the three lists to inform of a meeting recording being available for consumption e.g. review download editing etc. . In some embodiments a first set of notifications may be sent after meeting recording is processed later notifications may be sent based on appropriate user interaction e.g. when new speakers are added to metadata etc. .

In one embodiment the lists may be editable by host . Embodiments of communication system can provide a push mechanism that first validates the conclusions of automatic analytics algorithms regarding who are participating in meeting by asking is this you or do you know who this is type of questions to participants e.g. active participants passive participants who are identified by the algorithms.

Embodiments of communication system can automatically distribute uploaded meeting recording to relevant people e.g. active participants passive participants and followers . Consequently video consumption may be increased and may lead to enhanced viewer experience. Burden on host to distribute meeting recording add metadata etc. may be reduced. Subscription models may be replaced with embodiments of communication system to automatically link the participants and people referred to by the participants to a meeting recording. Embodiments of communication system can also help improve SSR algorithm accuracy for example by confirming discovered speakers.

Turning to the infrastructure of communication system meeting recording distribution module may include suitable components for video audio storage video audio processing and information retrieval functionalities. Examples of such components include servers with repository services that store digital content indexing services that allow searches client server systems disks image processing systems etc. In some embodiments components of meeting recording distribution module may be located on a single network element in other embodiments components of meeting recording distribution module may be located on more than one network element dispersed across various networks. In some embodiments meeting recording distribution module may support multi media content enable link representation to local external objects support advanced search and retrieval support annotation of existing information etc. In other embodiments meeting recording distribution module may suitably interface with network elements that provide such functionalities.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure elements of communication system may represent a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information which propagate through system . A node may be any electronic device user server peer service application or other object capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over communications channels in a network. Elements of communication system may include network elements not shown that offer a communicative interface between servers and or users and may be any local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual LAN VLAN a virtual private network VPN a wide area network WAN or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. In other embodiments substantially all elements of communication system may be located on one physical device e.g. camera server media processing equipment etc. that is configured with appropriate interfaces and computing capabilities to perform the operations described herein.

Elements of may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection wired or wireless which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications. Additionally any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs. Communication system may include a configuration capable of TCP IP communications for the electronic transmission or reception of data packets in a network. Communication system may also operate in conjunction with a User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition gateways routers switches and any other suitable service nodes physical or virtual may be used to facilitate electronic communication between various service nodes in the network.

In various embodiments content server may include any suitable repository for storing media files including web server enterprise server hard disk drives camcorder storage devices video cards etc. Meeting recording may be stored in any file format including Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG Apple Quick Time Movie MOV Windows Media Video WMV Real Media RM etc. Suitable file format conversion mechanisms analog to digital conversions etc. and other elements to facilitate accessing media files may also be implemented in content server within the broad scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments elements of communication system may be implemented as a stand alone solution with associated databases for storing meeting recording . Communication system may also be implemented in conjunction with processors and memory for executing instructions associated with the various elements e.g. meeting recording distribution module etc. . The different elements in communication system may communicate with each other using application programming interfaces APIs and shared memory. Host may access the stand alone solution to initiate activities associated therewith. In other embodiments elements of communication system may be dispersed across various networks that can include any number of users hosts storage servers routers gateways and other nodes inter connected to form a large and complex network.

The network environment may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include one or more networks and further may be configured in any form including but not limited to LANs WLANs VLANs MANs WANs VPNs Intranet Extranet any other appropriate architecture or system or any combination thereof that facilitates communications in a network. In some embodiments a communication link may represent any electronic link supporting a LAN environment such as for example cable Ethernet wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11x ATM fiber optics etc. or any suitable combination thereof. In other embodiments communication links may represent a remote connection through any appropriate medium e.g. digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof and or through any additional networks such as a wide area networks e.g. the Internet .

For example content server may be a web server located in an Internet cloud and meeting recording distribution module may be implemented on one or more enterprise servers. Myriad such implementation scenarios are possible within the broad scope of the embodiments. Embodiments of communication system may leverage existing video repository systems e.g. Cisco Show and Share YouTube etc. incorporate existing media video tagging and speaker identification capability of existing devices e.g. as provided in Cisco MXE3500 Media Experience Engine and add features to allow users e.g. active participants passive participants and followers to receive notifications of meeting recording .

Note that the numerical and letter designations assigned to the elements of do not connote any type of hierarchy the designations are arbitrary and have been used for purposes of teaching only. Such designations should not be construed in any way to limit their capabilities functionalities or applications in the potential environments that may benefit from the features of communication system . It should be understood that the communication system shown in is simplified for ease of illustration.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of communication system . Meeting recording distribution module may include a speaker segmentation and recognition module an automatic speech recognition module a named entity extraction module a face recognition module a list generator module a notification module a processor and a memory element . Meeting recording distribution module may access a speaker model database which may include various speaker models of speakers from meeting recordings recorded previously.

Meeting recording may be received at meeting recording distribution module and SSR module may run SSR algorithms thereon. SSR module may discover some speakers in meeting recording . SSR module may access speaker model database and compare the discovered speakers with speaker models in speaker model database . SSR algorithms may be run until reasonable confidence in discovered speakers is achieved. Automatic speech recognition module may run automatic speech recognition algorithms to discover spoken words in meeting recording . Named entity extraction module may analyze the spoken words and extract any spoken names therefrom.

In some embodiments face recognition module may also analyze meeting recording and identify attendees at meeting including active participants and passive participants . In various embodiments speaker segmentation and recognition module automatic speech recognition module named entity extraction module face recognition module may refer invitee list to compare discovered attendees with the invitees. For example all invitees may not attend the meeting alternatively or additionally some uninvited guests may attend the meeting. Comparing the discovered speakers and attendees to invitee list may facilitate improving the accuracy of the algorithms and to generate appropriate lists of attendees. List generator module may generate an active participant list comprising names of active participants a passive participants list comprising names of passive participants and a followers list comprising names of followers .

Notification module may generate appropriate notifications including an active notification targeted to active participants listed in active participant list a passive notification targeted to passive participants listed in passive participant list and a followers notification targeted to followers listed in followers list . As used herein the term notification can include any notice announcement message e.g. e mail phone message text message etc. publication broadcast note letter etc. Such a notification could for example serve to inform the recipient and or request information from the recipient. Active notification may include a notification of meeting recording including links to access meeting recording mechanisms to manipulate meeting recording e.g. add metadata attach presentation etc. and mechanisms to confirm the name e.g. facilities to answer questions such as is your name X etc. . Passive notification may include a notification of meeting recording without option to manipulate. In some embodiments passive notification may include an option to confirm the attendee s name.

Followers notification may include notification of meeting recording . In some embodiments followers notification may include permission to access only a relevant portion of meeting recording e.g. portions where followers were mentioned . In other embodiments followers notification may include permission to access the whole meeting recording . In yet other embodiments followers notification may be first sent to host to request permission to notify followers . Host may be provided a choice of permitting one more all or none of followers to access meeting recording . In other embodiments all speakers may be sent followers notification with a choice to permit one more all or none of followers to access meeting recording . In yet other embodiments the particular speaker who mentioned a specific follower s name may be sent followers notification with a choice to permit the specific follower to access meeting recording . Various such mechanisms may be possible and are included within the broad scope of the embodiments.

In one embodiment notifications including active notification passive notification and followers notification may be formatted as an email with hyperlinks to meeting recording and options to manipulate confirm etc. provided in the body of the email. In another embodiment active notification passive notification and followers notification may be formatted as a text message with a hyperlink to a webpage or another central location from where meeting recording can be accessed and suitably manipulated confirmations entered and so on. In yet another embodiment active notification passive notification and followers notification may be formatted as voice messages informing of the location at which meeting recording may be accessed and suitably manipulated etc. with confirmation options provided according to touch tone entries on the phone e.g. press 1 if you spoke at the meeting etc. .

In some embodiments active notification passive notification and followers notification may be sent as at least two messages the first message including a confirmatory request e.g. please confirm that you spoke at the meeting please confirm that your name is X etc. and a follow up message with meeting recording or link to meeting recording if the confirmation is affirmative. In yet other embodiments active notification passive notification and followers notification may include a link to a web server or other central repository and a confirmation page or suitable display may be presented to the viewer to confirm his or her participation name etc. Based on the confirmation status the viewer may be provided access to meeting recording or portions thereof. Various such notification mechanisms are possible and included within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified diagram illustrating example sets of people relevant to embodiments of communication system . Attendees set may include passive participants set and active participants set . In set notation attendees set may be denoted as A passive participants set may be denoted as P and active participants set may be denoted as S If all attendees spoke then P would be a null set . Spoken names set may include followers set and a subset of attendees set . For example the names of attendees may be mentioned at the meeting in addition to names of people e.g. followers who did not attend the meeting. In set notation spoken names set may be denoted as B and followers set may be denoted as F If all spoken names correspond to attendees then F would be a null set and S would be a subset of A.

Turning to is a simplified diagram illustrating a representation of video showing time points associated with speakers and other features according to embodiments of communication system . Video representation denotes a strip of video progressing horizontally in time. Shaded portions represent video segments associated with features such as speakers and spoken names. For example active participant may be represented as strip and may be associated with video segments corresponding to when active participant 1 spoke in the specific video. Similarly active participant 2 may be represented as strip and may be associated with a video segment corresponding to when active participant 2 spoke in the specific video. Active participant 3 may be represented as strip and may be associated with video segments corresponding to when active participant 3 spoke in the specific video. Follower 1 may be mentioned by active participant 2 and may be represented as strip overlapping with strip corresponding to active participant 2. Follower 2 may be mentioned by active participant 3 and may be represented as strip overlapping with strip corresponding to active participant 3.

In some embodiments video representation may be provided on a display portal displaying the video. The viewer may be able to click on any one of the strips and the video display may switch to a video segment corresponding to the selected strip. In some embodiments the displayed strips may correspond to a selected speaker name or follower name. For example the viewer may be able to select a speaker name or follower name from a list of speaker names and follower names on the display portal. Video representation may thereafter display only those strips corresponding to the selected name. In other embodiments the displayed strips may correspond to few or substantially all speaker names and follower names in the video.

In many embodiments the strips may be represented as colored lines with distinct colors corresponding to different features. For example in one example embodiment each speaker may be associated with a separate color and the displayed strips may indicate the speaker by the associated color. In another example embodiment speakers may be indicated by one color or set of colors and followers may be indicated by another color or another set of colors . Various such configurations are possible within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with embodiments of communication system . Operations may include at which SSR algorithms may be run on meeting recording . In some embodiments at face recognition algorithms may be run on meeting recording e.g. if meeting recording includes a video of the meeting . At speakers may be discovered by the SSR algorithms. At in some embodiments attendees may be discovered at . The discovered attendees may correspond to a portion of the total attendees in some scenarios. For example meeting recording may include video of a few attendees. In other scenarios the discovered attendees may correspond to substantially all attendees.

At attendees may be divided into active participants and passive participants depending on the discovered speakers at . In some embodiments the discovered attendees e.g. at may be compared with invitee list to determine if any non invitees attended or if some invitees did not attend. In any case the total attendees discovered from SSR and other algorithms estimated from invitee list or otherwise determined may be used to estimate active participants and passive participants . At ASR and NEE algorithms may be run on meeting recording . At followers may be discovered. At notifications e.g. active notifications passive notifications and followers notification may be generated.

At active notifications including notification of meeting recording with option to confirm and manipulate may be sent to active participants . At passive notifications including notification of meeting recording without option to manipulate may be sent to passive participants . At host and or relevant active participants may be asked whether followers notification may be sent to followers . If the response is affirmative followers notification including access permitted to relevant portion of meeting recording may be sent to followers at .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations to generate active participant list and passive participant list according to embodiments of communication system . At SSR algorithms may be run on meeting recording . At speakers may be discovered from SSR. At discovered speakers may be compared with speakers in speaker model database . At a determination may be made whether the match between the discovered speaker and corresponding model in speaker model database is below a certain predefined threshold. If the match is below the threshold names of potential speakers may be suggested at . For example names having the closest match may be suggested. In another example names corresponding to speaker models having the closest match may be suggested.

If the match is not below the threshold at e.g. indicating that the discovered speaker may correspond to a speaker model in speaker model database the discovered speakers may be reconciled with invitee list to create an attendee list which may include invitees and non invitees who spoke at the meeting . As used herein the term reconcile can include comparing and merging resolving combining or otherwise uniting elements of two or more lists. At a determination may be made whether all attendees spoke. If all attendees spoke passive participant set would be null set at . Otherwise at passive participant set would be computed as the attendees who are not included among the speakers e.g. passive participant set would be the members of attendee set left over after removing members of active participant set .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with generating followers list according to an embodiment of communication system . At names spoken in meeting may be discovered e.g. by running ASR and NEE algorithms on meeting recording . At the spoken names may be compared with the attendee list. At a determination may be made whether the spoken names include names other than attendees. If affirmative followers set may be determined as the spoken names left over after removing the attendees e.g. followers spoken names attendees . If the spoken names do not include names other than attendees followers set may be null set .

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments.

In example implementations at least some portions of the activities outlined herein may be implemented in software in for example meeting recording distribution module . In some embodiments one or more of these features may be implemented in hardware provided external to these elements or consolidated in any appropriate manner to achieve the intended functionality. The various network elements may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments these elements may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Furthermore meeting recording distribution module described and shown herein and or its associated structures may also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment. Additionally some of the processors and memory elements associated with the various service nodes may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory element are responsible for certain activities. In a general sense the arrangements depicted in the FIGURES may be more logical in their representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations and or hybrids of these elements. It is imperative to note that countless possible design configurations can be used to achieve the operational objectives outlined here. Accordingly the associated infrastructure has a myriad of substitute arrangements design choices device possibilities hardware configurations software implementations equipment options etc.

In some of example embodiments one or more memory elements e.g. memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software logic code etc. in non transitory computer readable media such that the instructions are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example processors e.g. processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In operation components in communication system can include one or more memory elements e.g. memory element speaker model database for storing information to be used in achieving operations as outlined herein. These devices may further keep information in any suitable type of non transitory storage medium e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM field programmable gate array FPGA erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked sent received or stored in communication system could be provided in any database register table cache queue control list or storage structure based on particular needs and implementations all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

