---

title: Organic magnetic field sensor
abstract: An organic, spin-dependent magnetic field sensor () includes an active stack () having an organic material with a spin-dependence. The sensor () also includes a back electrical contact () electrically coupled to a back of the active stack () and a front electrical contact () electrically coupled to a front of the active stack (). A magnetic field generator () is oriented so as to provide an oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09551772&OS=09551772&RS=09551772
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 09551772
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120106
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 430 489 filed Jan. 6 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE SC0000909 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Various systems use devices based on magnetic materials such as computers computing components memory and so forth. Magnetization of materials can result in use of less electrical power and storage of information even when the electrical power is removed. Magnetic sensors can sense magnetic fields and provide output signals representing the magnetic fields.

Recently ferromagnetic thin films and other layers have been developed which can yield a magnetoresistive response in the range of an order of magnitude or more as compared with the magnitude of the magnetic field due to anisotropic magnetoresistive response. This response is sometimes called a spin valve effect because electrons are allowed to move more freely from one ferromagnetic thin film layer to another if the magnetizations in these layers are parallel as opposed to non parallel orientations.

Magnetic field sensors have an extremely wide range of application. Such sensors can be used widely in scientific and research communities in areas as diverse as magnetic resonance imaging and fundamental physics. Such sensors can also employed for example in the mining industry for conducting wide area surveys and even for ground tracking in airports. Magnetic field sensors have been developed with dimensions ranging from a few microns to tens of microns which can provide a response to the presence of very small external magnetic fields. Some such sensors have been developed which utilize the spin valve effect or the changes in material properties as an effect of a magnetic field on an electron spin in the material. An electron spin is an intrinsic property of electrons. Electrons have intrinsic angular momentum. The angular momentum or spin of an electron can be an up or down spin. Previous magnetic field sensors have been able to measure magnetic fields using the electron spin properties but such sensors have had limited accuracy experience signal drift operate at limited temperature ranges and suffer from material degradation which also negatively affects sensor accuracy and performance. Further such sensors have often been expensive and difficult to fabricate and provide effective magnetic field sensing only when oriented at a specific angle or small range of angles with respect to a direction of the magnetic field.

There is a wide range of research activity associated with magnetic field sensors. A number of proposals to use spin dependent electronic processes in inorganic semiconductors exist. See for example A Honig M Moroz Precision absolute measurements of strong and highly inhomogeneous magnetic fields 49 183 1978 and A. Jander P. Dhagat Solidstate magnetometer using electrically detected magnetic resonance 322 1639 1641 2010 both of which references are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. However these processes result in very small current changes at moderate magnetic fields whilst not providing benefits of organic semiconductors such as flexibility and cost effectiveness. Some efforts have also been made to use magnetoresistive effects in organic semiconductors as field sensors. However such approaches are limited to small magnetic fields i.e. 

An organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor includes an active stack having an organic material with a spin dependent physical process. The sensor also includes a back electrical contact electrically coupled to a back of the active stack and a front electrical contact electrically coupled to a front of the active stack. A magnetic field generator can be associated with the active stack such that the generator is capable of generating an oscillating magnetic field in the active stack. For example a metallic spin resonance line can be oriented so as to provide an oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack. The sensor can also include an optional substrate for supporting the active stack and contacts. The metallic spin resonance line can be oriented above below or otherwise adjacent to the stack oriented in a position sufficient to allow generation of the oscillating magnetic field. Other magnetic field generators can include coils movable permanent magnets and the like.

The metallic spin resonance line may comprise a spin resonance line which is resonant to enable high precision measurements in a small bandwidth. The spin resonance line can cause magnetic resonant excitation of charge carrier spins within the active stack. For example the spin resonance line can be embedded in an RC circuit. The metallic spin line may also comprise a non resonant spin resonance line to cause modulation of a target magnetic field and enable broadband measurements. The metallic spin resonance line may comprise a metallic loop in proximity to the active stack and is operable to drive spin resonance in the active stack. Optionally the magnetic field generator can include a spin resonant conductive strip line and a lock in amplifier conductive strip line. Each of the spin resonant conductive strip line and the lock in amplifier conductive strip line can be electrically insulated from one another. The lock in amplifier can have a reference frequency which is provided by the low frequency AC current in the lock in strip line. The lock in detected current change is then measured as a function of the RF frequency applied to the spin resonant strip line. In some cases the magnetic field generator is further configured to produce an offset field parallel to the oscillating magnetic field or perpendicular to the oscillating magnetic field or both. This can be useful to allow both the magnitude and direction of the unknown magnetic field to be measured. Such offset fields can also be used to measure small magnetic field. Since the electrical detection of magnetic resonance becomes less sensitive at magnetic fields below 2 mT an offset field of 2 mT can allow measurements in the T range.

The sensor can include an injection layer in the active stack for charge injection into the active stack. The injection layer can be a plurality of injection layers in the active stack between the front and back contacts and on either side of the organic material for charge injection into the active stack. Although a variety of material may be suitable several non limiting examples of injection layer materials can include PEDOT PSS for holes and calcium for electrons.

The organic material in the sensor may comprise an organic layer. Perturbation of the organic layer can modify at least one of conductivity or luminescence of the organic material as a result of the spin dependence. The organic layer may comprise a back organic layer. The sensor can further include a front organic layer in the active stack the back organic layer being closer to the back contact than the front organic layer and the front organic layer being closer to the front contact than the back organic layer. The organic material can include at least one of polyphenylenevinylene PPV polythiophene polyfluorene vinylene PFV polyfluorene PFO polyacetylene polypyrrole polyaniline cyano polyphenylene vinylene CN PPV polyphenylene ethynylene PPE poly 2 5 pyridine poly 3 5 pyridine poly 2 5 bis 3 sulfonatopropoxy 1 4 phenylene disodium salt alt 1 4 phenylene PPP hydrocarbon molecules porphyrin and phthalocyanine. In one specific aspect the organic material can comprise poly 2 methoxy 5 2 ethyl hexyloxy 1 4 phenylene vinylene MEH PPV . The thickness of the organic layer can be tailored to maximize or create a change in current or luminescence on resonance sufficient to be measurable. However as a general guideline the thickness can range from about 1 nm to about 1000 nm and in some cases from about 20 nm to about 200 nm.

The sensor can include an insulator between the front contact and the back contact and between the front contact and the metallic spin line. The insulator can be configured to substantially prevent electrical shorts between the front contact back contact and metallic spin line.

The substrate may comprise a metal or a semiconductor selected from the group consisting of silicon plastic and glass among others. The substrate may comprise a flexible or a rigid material. Typically the substrate can be electrically non conductive or a semiconductor.

The front and back contacts may comprise any suitable conductive material. Non limiting examples of suitable contact materials can include metals composites thereof polymers and the like. Specific non limiting examples of such materials can include copper gold silver indium tin oxide ITO polythiophenes polyphenylene sulfide polyphenylene vinylene polyacetylenes composites thereof and combinations thereof. The back contact can be adjacent to the substrate the active stack can be formed on top of the back contact the front contact can be formed on top of the active stack and the metallic spin line can be formed above the front contact.

In another example an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor includes a substrate a back contact formed on the substrate and a back injection layer formed on the back contact as part of an active stack the injection layer being operable to inject a charge into the active stack. The sensor also includes a back organic semiconductor formed as part of the active stack on the back injection layer the back organic semiconductor comprising an organic material having a spin dependence. A front organic semiconductor can be formed as part of the active stack on the back organic semiconductor the front organic semiconductor comprising an organic material having a spin dependence. A front injection layer can be formed on the back contact as part of the active stack the injection layer being operable to inject a charge into the active stack. The sensor can further include a front contact formed on the front injection layer a spin resonance line formed above the front contact for providing a uniform oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack and an insulator between the front contact and the back contact and between the front contact and the spin resonance line for preventing electrical shorts between the front contact back contact and spin resonance line. Perturbation of the front and back organic semiconductors can modify at least one of conductivity or luminescence of the front and back organic semiconductors as a result of the spin dependence.

The front and or back contacts may comprise a transparent conductive material. The front and or back injection layers may comprise at least one blend of organic polymers or molecules. The front and back organic semiconductors may comprise different organic materials. The front and back injection layers may also comprise different organic materials.

The spin dependency of the organic material can include all or at least one of polaron pair recombination or dissociation triplet triplet annihilation triplet polaron recombination or annihilation polaron polaron spin blockade and triplet trion recombination.

The sensor can further include a Hall sensor for identifying a range of a magnetic field. The organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor can more specifically identify the magnetic field within the range identified by the Hall sensor.

A method for identifying a target magnetic field can include positioning an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor near the magnetic field applying a uniform oscillating magnetic field to a spin resonance line on the magnetic field sensor wherein the uniform oscillating magnetic field penetrates an active stack of the magnetic field sensor sweeping the uniform oscillating magnetic field across a range of magnetic field frequencies applying an electrical current through the active stack measuring the electrical current while sweeping the uniform oscillating magnetic field across the range of magnetic field frequencies wherein conductivity of the active stack changes as the uniform oscillating magnetic field changes and identifying the target magnetic field when changes to the conductivity of the active stack are the greatest.

Positioning the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor near the magnetic field may comprise positioning the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor at any angle with respect to a direction of the magnetic field. For example a plurality of sensors can be oriented so as to produce a system which is sensitive to magnetic fields in almost any direction. Three sensors which produce the oscillating magnetic field in complimentary perpendicular directions can allow for detection of magnetic fields in any direction. As such a magnetic field sensor system can comprise at least three organic spin dependent magnetic field sensors. Each of the at least three organic spin dependent magnetic field sensors includes mutually perpendicular oscillating magnetic fields to form an omni directional vector magnetometer. Note that the lock in detection of the magnetic resonance condition will limit the device sensitivity to the Bcomponent which is parallel to the modulation field and possible offset field B B. Thus by integration of three thin film sensors with mutually perpendicular modulation field directions on a single substrate an organic thin film based vector magnetometer with a sensitivity in the sub 100 nT range can be formed. An all thin film design of the sensors a large number of sensors can be accommodated on a single substrate at low cost for the purpose of magnetic field gradients.

The method can further include identifying the range of magnetic field frequencies as a subset of a larger range of frequencies using a Hall sensor and or strengthening the electrical current using at least one injection layer in the active stack. The method can also include identifying the target magnetic field within a 100 nm positional accuracy and or measuring spatially varying target magnetic fields using an array of organic spin dependent magnetic field sensors. Other aspects of the method can include flexing the magnetic field sensor around an object to enhance identification of the target magnetic field and or identifying the target magnetic field at room temperature or cryogenic temperatures.

The conductivity of the active stack can change as a frequency of the oscillating magnetic field approaches a frequency of the target magnetic field and causes resonance in the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor. Although the oscillating magnetic field may be uniform this is not required as long as non uniformities are compensated for and the frequency is sufficiently well defined to allow identification of the resonance frequency. Identifying the target magnetic field may comprise calculating the target magnetic field B according to the relationship B f where f is a frequency of the oscillating magnetic field and is an organic material constant that is constant in temperature and applied current in some materials or has a well defined dependence on temperature and current in other materials. Using the collected information the target magnetic field may be identified using frequency dependence of target magnetic field strength to identify the resonant target magnetic field.

A method for fabricating an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor can include lithographically depositing a back contact comprising an electrical contact lithographically depositing an active stack comprising an organic material having a spin dependence such that a back of the active stack is electrically coupled to the back contact lithographically depositing a front contact comprising an electrical contact such that the front contact is electrically coupled to a front of the active stack and lithographically depositing a metallic spin line above the front contact the metallic spin line being operable to provide an oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack. Although lithography can be used other methods can also be suitable. Non limiting examples of alternative methods can include vapor deposition atomic layer deposition ink jet printing reel to reel printing and the like.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the technology is thereby intended. Additional features and advantages of the technology will be apparent from the detailed description which follows taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which together illustrate by way of example features of the technology.

As used herein electrically coupled refers to a relationship between structures that allows electrical current to flow at least partially between them. This definition is intended to include aspects where the structures are in physical contact and those aspects where the structures are not in physical contact. Typically two materials which are electrically coupled can have an electrical potential or actual current between the two materials. For example two plates physically connected together by a resistor are in physical contact and thus allow electrical current to flow between them. Conversely two plates separated by a dielectric material are not in physical contact but when connected to an alternating current source allow electrical current to flow between them by capacitive means. Moreover depending on the insulative nature of the dielectric material electrons may be allowed to bore through or jump across the dielectric material when enough energy is applied.

As used herein adjacent refers to near or close sufficient to achieve a desired effect. Although direct physical contact is most common in the structures or volumes of the present invention adjacent can broadly allow for spaced apart features.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example a composition that is substantially free of particles would either completely lack particles or so nearly completely lack particles that the effect would be the same as if it completely lacked particles. In other words a composition that is substantially free of an ingredient or element may still actually contain such item as long as there is no measurable effect on the property of interest thereof.

As used herein the term about is used to provide flexibility to a numerical range endpoint by providing that a given value may be a little above or a little below the endpoint with a degree of flexibility as would be generally recognized by those skilled in the art. Further the term about explicitly includes the exact endpoint unless specifically stated otherwise.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 to about 5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 to about 5 but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3 and 4 and sub ranges such as from 1 3 from 2 4 and from 3 5 etc. as well as 1 2 3 4 and 5 individually. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value as a minimum or a maximum. Furthermore such an interpretation can apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described.

Spin dependent transitions can be used for magnetic resonance detection schemes. Described herein is an offset calibration and degradation free magnetic field sensor based on spin dependent electronic transitions in organic semiconductors. Combining both offset calibration and degradation free magnetic resonance detection schemes and organic semiconductors combines the benefits of organic devices flexibility cost etc. along with a precise way to determine the magnetic field. In the past organic magnetic field sensors used a magnetoresistive effect which needs to be calibrated and which often varies with temperature age etc. Using spin resonance on spin dependent transitions can overcome these problems.

The technology encompasses the use of spin dependent electronic transitions in organic semiconductors to measure a local magnetic field. Using a material with such transitions magnetic fields can be measured by determining the frequency required to drive spin resonance through the relationship B f where f is the frequency B the magnetic field and is a proportionality factor which can be easily determined experimentally. The frequency is determined by monitoring the device resistance which changes when the resonance conditions are satisfied. The technology can be used over a large range of magnetic fields and temperatures including room temperature and can be used to determine absolute magnetic fields with an absolute accuracy better than 1 part in 10. Organic semiconductors can be fabricated on flexible substrates which may allow fabrication of conformal sensors.

Experimental use of the technology demonstrates that spin dependent processes exist in an organic semiconductor such as MEH PPV . These transitions have been used to experimentally measure magnetic fields in the kGauss range and also for field sensing in the range 10 3500 Gauss 1 Gauss is approximately the Earths magnetic field . The g factor of these transitions which is related to the proportionality factor does not vary with temperature or applied voltage.

This technology incorporates an absolute magnetic field sensor based on organic semiconductors which measures magnetic fields with high accuracy without drift due to environmental changes over large temperature ranges including room temperature or due to materials degradation. The sensor utilizes spin dependent electronic transitions which are capable of producing percentage changes in the current through the device when spin resonance conditions are satisfied. By incorporating a high precision single frequency source the external magnetic field B can be accurately determined by the relationship B f where f is the frequency required to observe the resonant change. In particular in organic materials is constant in both temperature and applied current resulting in a sensor capable of providing high precision measurements of magnetic field without the need for calibration.

Organic semiconductors provide a number of advantages. For example organic semiconductors can be cheap easy to fabricate and can be made on flexible substrates. Flexibility may allow the development of conformal field sensors. The position accuracy of the current technology can be as low as 100 nm. Coupling small size with electrical readout arrays of sensors can be incorporated for measuring spatially varying magnetic fields. The sensor can measure magnetic fields at least in a millisecond to second time range if not much faster.

Referring to an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor includes an active stack having an organic material with a spin dependence. The sensor also includes a back electrical contact electrically coupled to a back of the active stack and a front electrical contact electrically coupled to a front of the active stack . A metallic spin line can be above the front contact and provides an oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack . Although illustrates the metallic spin line above the front contact the metallic spin line or other magnetic field generator can be oriented in any location which allows for generation of a magnetic field within or through the active stack .

The sensor can also include an optional substrate for supporting the active stack and contacts and . The substrate can support the various contacts organic layers and so forth. The back contact can allow electrical contact to the active part of the device. The organic layer may comprise an organic material as will be outlined below in which a spin dependent process exists which can modify the conductivity or luminescence of the material when perturbed. Such processes include but are not limited to polaron pair recombination or dissociation triplet triplet annihilation triplet polaron recombination or annihilation and triplet trion recombination.

The front contact is intended to allow electrical contact to the active part of the device i.e. the active stack . An insulating material can be configured to substantially prevent electrical shorts between the front contact back contact and spin resonance line or magnetic field generator. A spin resonance line can be used to provide an oscillating magnetic field which penetrates the active stack and is used to drive spin resonance. The spin resonance line can be resonant or non resonant. A non resonant line allows for broad band operation whereas a resonant line allows for high precision measurements in a small bandwidth.

Referring to an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor includes a substrate a back contact formed on the substrate and a back injection layer formed on the back contact as part of an active stack the injection layer being operable to inject a charge into the active stack. The sensor also includes a back organic semiconductor formed as part of the active stack on the back injection layer the back organic semiconductor comprising an organic material having a spin dependence. A front organic semiconductor can be formed as part of the active stack on the back organic semiconductor the front organic semiconductor comprising an organic material also having a spin dependence. A front injection layer can be formed on the back contact as part of the active stack the injection layer being operable to inject a charge into the active stack. The sensor can further include a front contact formed on the front injection layer . A spin resonance line formed above the front contact can provide an oscillating magnetic field typically uniform although not absolutely required which penetrates the active stack . An insulator is oriented between the front contact and the back contact and between the front contact and the spin resonance line for preventing electrical shorts between the front contact back contact and spin resonance line. Perturbation of the front organic semiconductor and back organic semiconductor can modify at least one of conductivity or luminescence of the front and back organic semiconductors as a result of the spin dependence.

The second or front organic layer can be optional in the device. This layer as well as additional organic layers if desired can be used to increase the current change through an engineered stack of different organic materials. The injection layer s is are also optional. An injection layer is intended to assist with charge injection if present. The injection layer can include materials such as those indicated below. The organic semiconductor s and any injection layers together can form an active stack.

The substrate may be any material which a device can be fabricated on and which has the desired mechanical integrity for a given application. The substrate may be rigid or flexible. Non limiting examples of such materials include metal semiconductors such as silicon plastic or glass. Additionally specific but non limiting examples of suitable substrates include glass silicon silicon dioxide germanium gallium arsenide indium phosphide aluminum oxide alloys thereof and composites thereof.

The insulating layers can be fabricated of any insulating material compatible with the fabrication method used. For example silicon nitride and other ceramics or plastics can be suitable.

The contact layers can be any material with a sufficiently high conductivity to provide current flow to and from the active stack. Non limiting examples of suitable conductors include metals e.g. gold silver aluminum etc transparent conductive materials such as ITO and a polymeric conductor.

The injection layers and organic layer or layers can consist of one of or more than one of or blends of organic polymers or molecules. These include but are not limited to the following materials or materials which include derivatives thereof 

Polyphenylenevinylene PPV or derivatives or related materials such as MDMO PPV Poly 2 methoxy 5 3 7 dimethyloctyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene MEH PPV Poly 2 methoxy 5 2 ethylhexyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene PSS PPV co MEH PPV CHOSi CHO Poly 1 methoxy 4 O disperse Red 1 2 5 phenylenevinylene BTEM PPV Poly 2 5 bis triethoxymethoxy 1 4 phenylene vinylene Poly 2 5 bis 2 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethoxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene Poly 2 5 dihexyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene Poly 2 6 naphthalenevinylene Poly m phenylenevinylene alt 2 5 dihexyloxy p phenylenevinylene Poly 1 methoxy 4 3 propyloxy heptaisobutyl PSS 2 5 phenylenevinylene Poly 2 5 bis 3 7 dimethyloctyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene Poly 2 methoxy 5 2 ethylhexyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene and PTDPV Poly tris 2 5 bis hexyloxy 1 4 phenylenevinylene alt 1 3 phenylenevinylene .

Polythiophene or derivatives or related materials such as P3BT Poly 3 butylthiophene 2 5 diyl PCMT Poly 3 cyclohexyl 4 methylthiophene 2 5 diyl PCHT Poly 3 cyclohexylthiophene 2 5 diyl Poly 3 decyloxythiophene 2 5 diyl P3HT Poly 3 hexylthiophene 2 5 diyl P3OT Poly 3 octylthiophene 2 5 diyl POT co DOT Poly 3 octylthiophene 2 5 diyl co 3 decyloxythiophene 2 5 diyl Poly thiophene 2 5 diyl PODT Poly 2 5 didecyloxy 1 4 phenylene alt 2 5 thienylene EDOT 3 4 Ethylenedioxythiophene and PEDOT Poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene .

Polyfluorene Vinylene PFV or derivatives or related materials such as PFV Poly 9 9 di 2 ethylhexyl 9H fluorene 2 7 vinylene .

Polyfluorene PFO or derivatives or related materials such as Poly 9 9 di n dodecylfluorenyl 2 7 diyl Poly 9 9 n dihexyl 2 7 fluorene alt 9 phenyl 3 6 carbazole and Poly 9 9 di 2 ethylhexyl fluorenyl 2 7 diyl . Polyacetylene or derivatives or related materials. Polypyrrole or derivatives or related materials such as 1H Pyrrole 1 propionic acid and EDOP 3 4 Ethylenedioxypyrrole. Polyanilines or derivatives or related materials such as Camphor 10 sulfonic acid . Cyano Polyphenylene vinylene CN PPV or derivatives or related materials such as Poly 2 5 di hexyloxy cyanoterephthalylidene Poly 2 5 di octyloxy cyanoterephthalylidene and Poly 5 2 ethylhexyloxy 2 methoxy cyanoterephthalylidene . Poly phenylene ethynylene PPE or derivatives or related materials such as Poly 2 5 di 3 7 dimethyloctyl phenylene 1 4 ethynylene Poly 2 5 dicyclohexylphenylene 1 4 ethynylene Poly 2 5 di 2 ethylhexyl 1 4 ethynylene Poly 2 5 didodecylphenylene 1 4 ethynylene and Poly 2 5 dioctylphenylene 1 4 ethynylene . Poly 2 5 pyridine or Poly 3 5 pyridine or derivatives or related materials. Poly fluorenylene ehtynylene PFE or derivatives or related materials such as Poly 9 9 dioctylfluorenyl 2 7 yleneethynylene Poly 9 9 di 2 ethylhexyl fluoren 2 7 yleneethynylene and Poly 9 9 didodecylfluroenyl 2 7 yleneethylnylene . Poly 2 5 bis 3 sulfonatopropoxy 1 4 phenylene disodium salt alt 1 4 phenylene PPP or other water soluble polymers. Hydrocarbon molecules such as Alq Tris 8 hydroxyquinoline aluminium Ir piq Tris 1 phenylisoquinoline C2 N iridium III Tris benzoylacetonato mono phenanthroline europium III Tris 2 2 bipyridyl d8 ruthenium II hexafluorophosphate Rubrene 5 6 11 12 Tetraphenylnaphthacene Perylene Anthracene Benz b anthracene Coumarin 6 3 2 Benzothiazolyl 7 diethylamino coumarin 3 2 Benzothiazolyl N N diethylumbelliferylamine TDAB 1 3 5 Tris diphenylamino benzene TECEB 1 3 5 Tris 2 9 ethylcabazyl 3 ethylene benzene mCP 1 3 Bis N carbazolyl benzene 1 4 Bis diphenylamino benzene CBP 4 4 Bis N carbazolyl 1 1 biphenyl PCBM 6 6 Phenyl C61 butyric acid methyl ester PCBB Phenyl C Butyric Acid Butyl Ester PCBO Phenyl C Butyric Acid Octyl Ester ThCBM Thienyl C Butyric Acid Methyl Ester and d5 PCBM Pentadeuterophenyl C Butyric Acid Methyl Ester. Porphyrin or derivatives or related materials such as PtOEP Platinum octaethylporphyrin and H2TPP Tetraphenylporphyrin. Phthalocyanine or derivatives or related materials such as Copper phthalocyanine Lead phthalocyanine Silicon phthalocyanine 2 3 Naphthalocyanine and Aluminum 2 3 naphthalocyanine chloride.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method is shown for identifying a target magnetic field in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. The method can include positioning an organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor near the magnetic field . Positioning the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor near the magnetic field may comprise positioning the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor at any non parallel angle with respect to a direction of the magnetic field. If multiple sensors are used simultaneously then the direction of the target magnetic field being measured is less important. An oscillating magnetic field can be created from a magnetic field generator on the magnetic field sensor . The uniform oscillating magnetic field generated penetrates an active stack of the magnetic field sensor. The method also includes sweeping the uniform oscillating magnetic field across a range of magnetic field frequencies . An electrical current can be applied through the active stack . The method then includes measuring the electrical current while sweeping the uniform oscillating magnetic field across the range of magnetic field frequencies. Consistent with the principles described herein the conductivity of the active stack changes as the uniform oscillating magnetic field changes. Finally the method can include identifying the target magnetic field when changes to the conductivity or luminosity of the active stack are the greatest .

The method can further include identifying the range of magnetic field frequencies as a subset of a larger range of frequencies using a Hall sensor. Whereas Hall sensors are typically oriented perpendicular to a magnetic field to operate effectively the present organic sensor can be oriented in any direction. A drawback is that a direction of the field is not known. Use of a Hall sensor can provide the direction of the field. Also Hall sensors can be used to find a general range of frequencies within which the magnetic field exists. Hall sensors can do so fairly rapidly. However Hall sensors do not provide an absolute measurement of a magnetic field. The present organic sensor can provide an absolute measurement of a magnetic field but discovers the field by scanning across a range of field frequencies. Thus a combination of a Hall sensor with the organic sensor can reduce an amount of time in measuring the magnetic field because the Hall sensor can identify a smaller range for the organic sensor to scan.

The method can include strengthening the electrical current through the active stack using at least one injection layer in the active stack. The method can also include identifying the target magnetic field within a 100 nm positional accuracy and or measuring spatially varying target magnetic fields using an array of organic spin dependent magnetic field sensors. Other aspects of the method can include flexing the magnetic field sensor around an object to enhance identification of the target magnetic field and or identifying the target magnetic field at room temperature.

The conductivity of the active stack can change as a frequency of the uniform oscillating magnetic field approaches a frequency of the target magnetic field and causes resonance in the organic spin dependent magnetic field sensor. Identifying the target magnetic field may comprise calculating a the target magnetic field B according to the relationship B f where f is a frequency of the uniform oscillating magnetic field and is an organic material constant that is constant in temperature and applied current. This information can be used to identify the target resonant magnetic field using the frequency dependence of the target magnetic field strength.

The method can further include encapsulating the organic materials to limit degradation. Even with degradation readings from the organic magnetic field sensor described do not exhibit drift as with other sensors. Whilst such degradation may lead to a decrease in the amplitude of the signal seen at the resonant frequency corresponding to the target magnetic field the relationship B f does not change and thus degradation of the sensor over time may have limited impact on use of the sensor.

Lithographic fabrication of the sensor can be at the nanoscale or at larger scales. Lithographic fabrication techniques are known and are not specifically described here. Size or scale of lithographic fabrication of the sensors is practically limited by limits of lithography.

The technology described here can be of use in situations where magnetic fields need to be measured over a large dynamic range of temperature or magnetic field where precision measurements of magnetic fields are desired and in situations where very local field measurements 100 nm scale are desired. Applications for small and accurate magnetic field sensors can be found in magnetic resonance geophysics biophysics and electronics. Various applications of the magnetic field sensor described are contemplated. A number of these applications have been described above. Another application is the use in magnetic resonance imaging MRI devices. Use of the organic field sensor in an MRI device can result in a more inexpensive and easier to use imaging device.

In one alternative example an array of organic spin dependent magnetic field sensors can be flexed around an object or into a specific orientation or shape to allow identification of a spatially varying magnetic field.

A sensor device was formed by depositing an active stack and electrodes consisting of the following materials an indium tin oxide layer about 200 nm in thickness a hole injection layer of PEDOT that was applied using a spin coater followed by a thin layer about 200 nm of MEH PPV that was also applied via spin coating in a nitrogen rich glove box with a 25 nm calcium contact which layers were supported on a corning glass substrate with 50 nm thick aluminum electrical contacts for current detection. The configuration was substantially that illustrated in .

Temperature dependent data were taken with a device with a Strontium electrical contact. The device was operated in a forward bias with an isolated voltage source while placed inside a small coil. The coil was connected to a tunable frequency source for the application of a fixed frequency. The device output current was then connected to a low noise current amplifier where a low pass filter 10 Hz cutoff was used with no offset current. Current was then measured as a function of magnetic field strength as shown in .

For single pulse experiments the strip line resonator design was used while the sensor was operated in the forward bias mode. The output current was then connected to a low noise current amplifier in high band width mode with an offset current close to I. This output was then connected to an 8 bit transient recorder.

A set of Helmholtz coils were oriented perpendicular to the first coil for field modulation. A reference frequency of 6 KHz was provided to the coils by the built in function generator of the lock in amplifier at 4V amplitude providing 0.1 mT modulation field. The in phase output had the initial bias subtracted then was connected to a 16 bit fast digitizer card.

The resolution in measurable field can be affected by the electrical shot noise the amplitude of the applied modulation field Band the width of the resonance line B in the following form 

where we have assumed that the modulation amplitude Bis set equal to the line width B. For the resolution estimation in the given devices we used experimental values of I 100 nA I 100 A and B 0.35 mT as obtained was from the fits in .

Magnetic resonance with either electrons or holes can be detected by a simple current measurement. depicts the sensor architecture used in this example. A thin MEH PPV layer was sandwiched between an electron and a hole injection layer. This sensor device also sits above two thin strips of conducting materials e.g. aluminum both of which are mutually electrically isolated as well as isolated from the active stack. The two striplines are mutually perpendicular one is coupled to a radio frequency source the other is subjected to an AC current that may or may not be offset by a DC component.

The active stack structure within this device is used for the measurement of spin dependent excess charge carrier currents. The two strip lines are for the inductively non resonant and therefore broad band generation of harmonically oscillating magnetic fields. One stripline is subjected to high frequency lower MHz to high GHz range radiation in order to cause magnetic resonance excitation of charge carrier spins. The other stripline is subjected to strong kHz range AC currents with or without DC offsets which allow modulation of the external magnetic field as well as the application of an offset magnetic field respectively.

This sensor only allows the quantitative determination of the magnetic field component that is perpendicular to the direction of the RF field Bfield and parallel to the direction of the modulation field. This does not pose a limitation on the device per se as absolute magnetic field measurements can be accomplished by utilization of three sensor devices with mutually perpendicular measurement axis all of which can be implemented as thin film devices on a common same substrate. In an alternative approach three individual measurements on a single sensor containing two orthogonal offset lines can be used to determine the magnitude and direction of the magnetic field.

In order to measure the externally applied magnetic field Bwith the device shown in changes to a current applied to the active stack structure are monitored through a lock in amplifier whose reference frequency is provided by the low frequency AC current in one stripline. This lock in detected current change is then measured as a function of the RF frequency applied to the second stripline. Once a frequency is identified at which the MR induced current change is maximized a determination of B v is possible with being the gyromagnetic ratio of the charge carrier species that is in resonance. Unless otherwise stated the experimental data presented in the following has been measured at room temperature.

Electrically detected spin resonance signals are shown independent from spin polarization over large magnetic field ranges. shows measurements of a DC current in the active stack structure as a function of Bwhile an RF field with constant frequency and intensity is applied. The left plot displays the relative current change I I in presence of an RF radiation v 200 MHz as a function of the magnetic field for 1.3 mT

The absolute determination of the magnetic field is grounded in the measurement standard which in this case was the gyromagnetic ratio or Land g factor of the used resonance line. The set of EDMR measurements conducted on the thin film samples over a large magnetic field range was used in order to determine most accurately and also to confirm the independence of from the magnetic field itself. Experimentally these measurements were performed as B dependence measurements for single pulse transient experiments. displays a plot of the magnetic fields where the maximal current changes were observed as a function of the applied RF frequency. The data was fit by a linear function revealing a value of 28.03 4 GHz T. also shows a reproducibility of this value over nearly three orders of magnitudes 40 MHz 9.7 GHz . The upper limitation of 340 mT 9.7 GHz is of purely technical nature related to available equipment. Integrated on chip microwave generators can be used to extend this measurement range by additional orders of magnitude.

The temperature and degradation dependence of the gyromagnetic ratio was also tested. Results indicated that the magnetic field measurement is independent from the temperature over almost two orders of magnitude. Further the gyromagnetic ratio was also found to be independent of degradation although signal amplitude degrades. Thus the temperature and degradation independence for any given combination of materials remained consistent.

The widths of the EDMR spectra are not always independent of an applied external magnetic field. EDMR lines can be broadened inhomogeneously randomly Gaussian due to a distribution of spin orbit interaction as well as random hyperfine fields. Random spin orbit interaction leads to a randomization of the g factor and therefore the corresponding randomization of a resonance line. Consequently the line width is proportional to the applied Bfield. In contrast inhomogeneous broadening due to random hyperfine fields is independent of any external magnetic fields as long as the nuclear spin ensemble remains unpolarized by the external field. Thus for the polaron resonance lines used here the line widths should be limited by random hyperfine fields and therefore can be constant at low external magnetic fields and proportional to the external magnetic field when spin orbit induced line broadening exceeds the hyperfine fields.

The resolution limit for this particular sensor device of B 0.05 T Hzwith a signal to noise of 1 within the hyperfine limited magnetic field range 

In order to reduce inductive resonances throughout the strip lines across the many orders of magnitude for which is must operate the MR with the Bfield may be met under the undersaturated and oversatured conditions. While undersaturation can lead to a weak EDMR response oversaturation can lead to Bfield induced current artifacts which will lead to current maxima that may be confused with the MR induced signal current. Because of this RF modulation which means frequency or amplitude modulation of the signal presents difficulties such that only a B modulation filters out non MR induced current artifacts RF induced and magnetoresistance effects .

Measurement time limitations may be overcome by a combination of the operation of the device with the magnetoresistant behavior of the polymer layer. When the organic device is used in a magnetoresistance mode e.g. a simple resistance measurement the magnetic field can be determined approximately with an accuracy that is limited by degradation temperature. This will strongly limit the measurement range in which the exact magnetic field is then determined subsequently using the current detected magnetic resonance mode. The magnetic fields can be measured at high bandwidth using the magntoresistive effect while the sensor is used periodically for a recalibration. In essence such an organic hybrid magnetometer can combine the advantages of both sensor types and approaches the speed of a magnetoresistive measurement with the temperature and degradation independent accuracy of the above sensors.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present technology in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the technology. Accordingly it is not intended that the technology be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

