---

title: Bilateral filter optimization
abstract: Systems and methods for optimizing bilateral filtering operation, by segmenting an image based on predetermined ranges of colors, and reiteratively blurring the image based on each color. In one aspect, colors associated with pixels that are located in such compartment are substantially similar. A blurring procedure(s) can subsequently be applied to each compartment, wherein pixels on the image that have more color similarity to a color of the compartment are weighted more, as compared to pixels that have less color similarity to the color of such compartment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761507&OS=08761507&RS=08761507
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08761507
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
This disclosure generally relates to bilateral and edge preserving filtering operations and more particularly to mitigating processing complexities by optimizing bilateral filter procedures.

Filtering procedures represent typical cornerstone operations in modern image processing and related computer vision systems. In general the term filtering can refer to a function that assigns predefined values for a given pixel based on neighborhood pixels. For example Gaussian low pass filtering computes a weighted average of pixel values in the neighborhood of a pixel in which the weights decrease with distance from the neighborhood center. The noise values that corrupt these nearby pixels are mutually less correlated than the signal values so noise is averaged away while signal can be preserved.

Similarly the bilateral filter has been introduced as a non iterative procedure for smoothing images while retaining edge details. Such filter can further employ a weighted convolution in which the weight for each pixel depends not only on its distance from the center pixel but also on its relative intensity.

Moreover as the size of the filter kernel increases number of required multiplications increases geometrically. Such complexities can further be compounded when a filter is applied over a substantially large image. Since increased multiplications become computationally expensive increased calculations can cause significant consumption of processing resources which create bottlenecks and further add to processing times.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more embodiments the subject application relates to optimizing bilateral filters by compartmentalizing e.g. bucketing an image based on predetermined ranges of colors and reiteratively blurring the image based on a color. Such blurring reiteration can occur for each compartment e.g. a predefined number of color associations at substantially low resolutions to maintain processing efficiency and hence mitigate associated bottlenecks.

According to a particular methodology an image can be initially segmented into a plurality of compartments based on a color that is associated with such pixels. In one aspect pixels that are located in a compartment are substantially similar e.g. all pixels in each compartment have colors within a predetermined threshold of a combined or primary color. Next a blurring procedure s can be applied to such compartmentalized image wherein pixels on the image that have more color similarity to a color of the compartment e.g. similarity based on a predetermined threshold can be weighted more e.g. at a higher intensity rate as compared to pixels that have less color similarity to the color of such compartment. Subsequently the methodology can be repeated for other colors and or compartments in the image.

In accordance with a further methodology initially an image can be compartmentalized based on a range e.g. 256 of color values wherein each compartment shares the same color value that is selected from such color value range. Next a blur procedure e.g. a Gaussian smoothing can be performed on the compartmentalized image to create a blurred image wherein weighing factors of the blur procedure correlate to a color value selected from the color value range. Such process can subsequently be reiterated for most if not all the color values.

According to a further aspect a system is disclosed that includes a memory having stored thereon computer executable components and a processor that is operatively coupled to various non transitory computer readable medium and or software components which further interact with the memory and or the processor. The system can further include a bucketing component that compartmentalizes an image based on a predetermined range of colors to contain a plurality of pixels that share a same color value e.g. as determined by defined threshold value. The bucketing component can further interact with a blurring component which employs a bilateral filter to reduce noise and or detail. Such blurring component can replace an intensity value for each pixel on the image by a weighted average that correlate with a color value that is associated with a selected compartment. Accordingly the system can facilitate preserving edges by reiteratively looping through each compartment and its associated color.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosure may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It is evident however that such embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

Systems and methods described herein relate to optimizing bilateral filters by compartmentalizing e.g. bucketing an image based on predetermined ranges of colors and reiteratively blurring the image based on each color. Such blurring reiteration can occur for each compartment e.g. a predefined number of pixels and or color associations in substantially low resolutions to maintain processing efficiency and hence mitigate associated bottlenecks. illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary non limiting system that facilitates bilateral filter optimization by employing a bucketing component . Such bucketing component can operate on an image as part of an image processing system .

The image processing system can perform bilateral filter processing on the image by compartmentalizing or bucketing of such image based on predetermined ranges of colors and reiteratively blurring the image based on each color as described in detail below. The image can include any suitable type of photo or digital or artificially rendered data such as for example that taken by imagery devices e.g. dynamic and moving representations static representations medical technology scanners digital cameras video game displays virtual landscapes and the like. It is to be appreciated that image processing system of the subject disclosure can be applied not only to the imaging apparatus but also to all apparatuses and systems having an image processing function such as a display a display device of a printer or the like and an apparatus including a video processing application. It is further appreciated that the subject disclosure can be applied to an image capturing device itself e.g. a camera module as well as an information processing apparatus e.g. a portable terminal apparatus that has the camera module or any photographing function connected thereto.

The bucketing component can assign a compartment 1 to n where n is an integer or bucket to a range of pixels to k where k is an integer based on color associations pixel similarities intensities and or a predefined attribute of the pixels e.g. gray scale pixel color position and the like. Furthermore the bucketing component can access data maintained in a pixel register to retrieve computation stage instructions from storage medium . Such can occur based on register values path registers fetch operations code decode stages execution stages and the like. For example the pixel register can assign a matrix of pixels emphasizing a predetermined feature of the image e.g. a range of colors to a compartment for further smoothing by the optimized bilateral filter.

Typically the optimized bilateral filtering performed by the image processing system can occur in substantially low resolutions that mitigate bottlenecks wherein edges of the image can be preserved. According to one particular aspect the bucketing component can initially segment the image into a plurality of compartments based on a color that is associated with such pixels. For example colors associated with pixels that are located in such compartment are substantially similar e.g. all pixels in each compartment have colors within a predetermined threshold of a combined or primary color. By systematically blurring reiterations for each compartment the bilateral filtering process of the subject innovation can improve performance while preserving edges in the image .

For example and as compared to typical standard bilateral filters the subject disclosure can reduce bottle necks and improve overall operation efficiencies. In this regard a typical standard bilateral filter generally combines a normalized weighted sum of its neighboring pixels to determine a final intensity for a pixel. Typically such weighting can be determined both by the distance that the pixel is from the source pixel itself as well as the difference in intensity from such source pixel. Hence pixels that are closer in their location or intensity to the source pixel can be weighted higher whereas pixels that remain farther away in location or their intensity are weighted lower. In managing such operations various aspects of the subject disclosure introduce approximations that increase processing speeds while maintaining acceptable image attributes and without inducing substantial losses in image quality. The following describes an exemplary code for processing a typical standard basic bilateral filter and subsequently introduces efficiencies obtained by employing various aspects of the subject disclosure 

It is to be appreciated that the calculation of I x can further be optimized by calculating J k via a subsampled version of the image and thus limit operating at full resolution when calculating I x . Even though a minor quality effect on the final image quality can occur yet such optimization can substantially increase speed of operations. Moreover one can speed up multiple runs of such processes by also subsampling intermediate calculations of I x and hence reserving calculations of the full resolution for the final run.

As described above one particular aspect of the subject innovation can supply multiple runs and reiterations of processes associated with the above code at substantially lower resolutions. In this regard associated acts can include an initial downsampling of the original image. For example the image e.g. original message I wherein the subsampled image can be calculated as 

Such can provide for further efficiency as compared to other downsampling methods that combine the values of many neighboring pixels together when shrinking the image. For example an issue can arise that near edges the combined intensity often does not fit into the intensity bucket of any of the original pixels which can be required when equation 4 in above code is being calculated .

Subsequently PBFICs equation 3 in above code can be calculated for the subsampled or low resolution image. Next the bilateral blurred image equation 4 of the above code can be computed. To this end if such computation represents an intermediate iteration of the bilateral blur then equation 4 in the above code can be applied for each pixel of the low resolution image wherein a low resolution result M can be obtained as represented by 1 alpha alpha 1 

Alternatively and if such computation represents a final iteration of the bilateral blur equation 4 in the above code can be applied on each pixel at the original higher resolution via employing bilinear filtering on the lower resolution PBFICs to determine the result I as 1 alpha bilinear alpha bilinear 1 

where g q maps a pixel location in the original image to the pixel in the subsampled image e.g. g q f 1 q and bilinear I p employs bilinear sampling to manage with pixel locations that are at decimal locations.

Based on such weight assignment to various pixels the blurring component can raise weighting of pixels at a higher intensity rate for pixels on the image that have more color similarity to a color of the compartment e.g. similarity based on a predetermined threshold as compared to pixels that have less color similarity to the color of the compartment. Subsequently the blurring component can repeat blurring procedures for other colors and or compartments in the image.

In one particular aspect the weight coefficient processing unit can employ a Gaussian function to reduce image noise and reduce detail. In general such weight coefficient processing unit can employ a type of image blurring filter that uses a Gaussian function which also expresses the normal distribution in statistics for calculating the transformation to apply to each pixel in the image. For example Gaussian blur effect can typically be generated by convolving the image with a kernel of Gaussian values such as for example implementing Gaussian blurs linearly separable property that divides the process into two passes. In the first pass a one dimensional kernel can be employed to blur the image in only the horizontal or vertical direction. In a second pass another one dimensional kernel can be employed to blur in the other direction. The resulting effect can represent the same as convolving with a two dimensional kernel in a single pass but requires fewer calculations.

Hence by systematically blurring reiterations for each compartment on the image the blurring component can facilitate bilateral filtering process to induce processing efficiency while preserving edges in the image .

Each compartment can share a color value being selected from the color value range. For example various color histograms representing the distribution of colors in the image can further be employed wherein a color histogram can represent number of pixels that have colors in each of a fixed list of color ranges which spans the image s color space. Moreover the color histograms can also be represented and displayed as a smooth function defined over the color space that approximates the pixel counts.

In a related aspect a subsampling component can interact with the bucketing component to create low resolution subsampled images as described above.

It is to be appreciated that various compression or thinning methods can further be employed in conjunction with aspects of the subject disclosure. By compartmentalizing e.g. bucketing an image based on predetermined ranges of colors and reiteratively blurring the image based on each color of the compartments at substantially low resolutions the subject disclosure can optimize operation of bilateral filters to maintain processing efficiency and hence mitigate associated bottlenecks.

Moreover the enhancement component can employ various antisotropic diffusion filters that can blur discontinuities and further sharpen edges by employing a conduction function which can vary on the image. Moreover the enhancement component can apply various image based warping techniques for image sharpening and edge preserving expansion wherein pixels can be moved pixels along a warping field towards nearby edges.

Based on the methodology an image can be segmented into a plurality of compartments based on a color that is associated with its pixels. To this end initially and at a predetermined set of colors can be designated wherein each color can define a compartment. For example colors associated with pixels that are located in a compartment are substantially similar e.g. all pixels in each compartment have colors within a predetermined threshold of a combined or primary color. Next and at a downsampling for the image can occur to obtain a low resolution image. At a Principal Bilateral Filtered Image Component PBFIC process can be performed as described in detail with reference to wherein the downsampled image improves operation efficiency and the bilateral blurred image can subsequently be computed at .

Subsequently and at the methodology can proceed to selection of another compartment that is associated with another color. By reiterating the methodology for another color such process can be repeated throughout various compartments that are defined over the image.

In accordance with a further aspect illustrates a particular methodology for optimizing bilateral filter operation. Initially and at an image can be scanned for identification of any of the n color values e.g. n being an integer. Next and at parts of the image having the same color value can be compartmentalized to same compartments on the image.

A Gaussian smoothing and or blurring can subsequently be selected wherein weighing factors for such Gaussian smoothing of the blur procedure correlates to a color value that is assigned to the compartment from the n color value range. Subsequently and at the selected Gaussian function can be applied at different passes in horizontal and or vertical directions from the compartment.

For example in a first pass the Gaussian blurring can be employed to blur an image in only a horizontal direction traversing from the compartment and in a second pass such function is employed to blur in the vertical direction. As explained above the weight coefficient for the Gaussian function can be based on similarity criteria as applied to color of a compartment wherein pixels on the image that have more color similarity to a color associated with the compartment can be assigned a different weight as compared to weight assigned to pixels that have less color similarity to the color of the compartment. The blurring reiteration can occur for each compartment e.g. a predefined number of pixels and or color associations at substantially low resolutions to maintain processing efficiency and mitigating associated bottlenecks.

By analyzing weights assigned to various pixels on the image the component for blurring can raise amount of blur or in the alternative focus at a higher intensity rate for pixels on the image that have higher color similarity to a color of the compartment than other pixels having a lower color similarity to the color of the compartment. By systematically reiterating the process an intensity value related to color for each pixel on the image can thus be replaced with a weighted average that correlate with a color value being associated with a compartment.

Such operation can further facilitate bilateral filtering process since each compartment and its associated colors can be reiteratively looped through to reduce data processing requirements while preserving edges in the image.

At pixels positioned on the image can be analyzed based on their color similarity to the color associated with the compartment itself. Next and at intensity of blurring can be designated based on correlations to weighing coefficients and threshold criteria employed for evaluating color similarity.

Subsequently and at data can be processed to learn of existing operations and to horizontally and or vertically blur image segments which can further be associated with selection and or modification of weighing coefficients parameters. At the process can be reiteratively performed on other compartments which can be systematically selected from the image such as based on color attributes image use processing resources and the like.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where media may be found. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various embodiments of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments e.g. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store. Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a media server or other media management server components.

Although not required embodiments can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described herein. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more embodiments includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . Computer can be employed for example in connection with implementing the systems or components disclosed above in connection with and .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts can be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques detailed herein. Thus embodiments herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described herein. Also various embodiments described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer can be typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessor and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described herein and similarly storage can be affected across a plurality of devices. The invention is not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

