---

title: System and method for harmonious tiling search and publishing
abstract: A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to provide harmonious tiling layout for a single heterogeneous data feed with a unique and brief syntax. The approach provides solutions to fit shapes into a container without having any holes by automatically providing the most optimum harmonious layout and tile presentation “win-out” over time, and a survival of the fittest of visual presentation based on configurable metrics. A single user interface combines the action of searching and publishing as a single process whereby search results are formatted with the intention to facilitate publishing the chosen items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898562&OS=08898562&RS=08898562
owner: 
number: 08898562
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120305
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 449 462 filed Mar. 4 2011 which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed generally to a system for consuming and publishing electronic media. The system may be used for consuming and publishing electronic media on web pages displayed by web browsers on computers phones touch pads etc. The present invention may also be used for generating layouts for traditional print publishing in books magazines newspapers etc.

Traditional publishing systems require graphic artists editors and revenue officers to agree on how to layout content for publishing. For example an editor decides which article might be the most popular article a graphic artist figures out how best to fit the headlines pictures and text for various articles on a page and a revenue officer will decide how much space to allocate to advertisements. The process relies on the expertise of the people involved to layout the ads and content.

Social media systems like twitter and Facebook allow users to consumer media in their activity stream a list of articles comments photos etc shared from people they follow . The media they consume can easily be shared with others by using the re share functionality of these social network systems.

Search engines allow one to type in a query and display results from a database related to the query. These search engine database is a copy of all data published on the web and typically includes just a sample of and a link to the media available from the website.

Browsers allow one to open multiple windows displayed in a tab format for easy navigation from one web page to another. Sometimes the web pages are dynamically updated so real time updates are available upon clicking on a tab but in most cases the web pages are not dynamically updated and require a user action to refresh the page.

There is a need for harmonious tiling systems and methods that design interfaces or present content in a dynamic manner. Currently when laying out interface elements on a screen or text and images in print or articles on a blog etc. each element is positioned within a container of fixed size. The layouts tend to be one of two generally fixed natures 

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that reduce the amount of time designing interfaces or presenting content is spent in implementing a fixed layout.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that efficiently fit different size tiles into a fixed or fluid size container.

A further object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that automatically produce variations in layout and the size and presentation of the tiles to produce a harmonious and fresh visual experience one without gaping holes in the tiled structure of content and where one data feed can be rendered in many ways.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that automatically provide the most optimum layout and tile presentation win out over time and a survival of the fittest of visual presentation based on configurable metrics.

A further object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that remove the hard work of manually laying information out on a screen put the focus on inputting quality data while trusting that it will be presented in a manner that will maximize configurable goals.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that allow all types of content including but not limited to video text audio images ads products and the like to be rendered in a magazine like manner with the ability to make itself appear novel by calculated changes in visual presentation.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that define a clear API for creating and using different types of tiles and to give them a set of rules on how to respond to the layout.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that enable fixing the relative position order of tiles or particular harmonies.

Still another object of the present invention is to enable the automatically generated layout to respond to the medium in which it is being rendered.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that enable the Harmonious Tiling Layout to be applied to any arbitrary well formed HTML file.

A further object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that enable using the system to replace CSS Cascading Style Sheets based layouts in HTML browsers by enabling web developers to configure a Harmonious Tiling Layout in the metadata of HTML elements without comprising the semantic structure. By combining different types of Harmonies any structured layout can be implemented thus the present invention can be used instead of structuring HTML elements with CSS.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that enable animated asynchronous interaction with the harmonies and the tiles.

A further object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that produce ads products promotions and other monetized pieces of content an equal footing in visual real estate as the rest of content including but not limited to potentially supplement a data feed with ads and render it such that the it is not apparent what is the ad and the normal content and to auto optimize the position of the ad and its visual properties.

A further object of the invention is to allow users to trade or purchase tile space in order to promote their businesses.

Another object of the present invention is to provide systems and methods that allow a rich set of functionality for manipulating the data without compromising the layout algorithm such as ordering the tiles by most comments or most social signals are done on the client in runtime and fed back into the algorithm or filtering to just show items with a particular tag.

Yet another object of the present invention is to enable multiple content contributors to publish tiles to a single website.

Another object of the invention is the use and creation of a single user interface to combine the action of searching and publishing as a single process whereby search results are formatted with the intention to facilitate publishing the chosen items.

Another object of the present invention is to create a dashboard displaying media related to a user s interests. The related media may be implicitly determined by extracting concepts or keywords from the user s websites blogs social media posts posts of people followed posts re shared posts liked etc or explicitly by capturing keywords directly from the user.

The approach is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. It should be noted that references to an or one or some embodiment s in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to provide harmonious tiling layout for a single heterogeneous data feed with a unique and brief syntax. The approach addresses a polygonal packing problem or how do you fit one set of shapes into a large container of a particular size and shape in the most optimal manner and provides solutions to fit shapes into a container without having any holes. Specifically the approach automatically provides the most optimum harmonious layout and tile presentation win out over time and a survival of the fittest of visual presentation based on configurable metrics. Example signals for ranking or sorting the display of content include views of content tiles mouse over of content tiles clicks of content tiles views and time spent viewing expanded content from a tile mouse over views clicks and time spend viewing related content contained in the expanded content from a tile likes and comments of content tiles or expanded content from a tile either on said website or other websites where tile content may be published the aforementioned interactions on the content displayed on the search dashboard portion of the single interface search and publishing system described below.

As used hereinafter all visual pieces of content in the algorithm are treated as polygonal tiles . A tile may be a video an ad an image or any piece of content.

As used hereinafter groups of tiles that produce a hole free segment of visual real estate on the screen are defined as Harmonies for harmonious tiling layout. Harmonies determine the relative position and size for a subset of tiles. So the simplest of harmonies is a single large rectangle that fills the screen. Another one is three equal sized rectangles that divide their horizontal space by three. Likewise much more complex harmonies can be produced that contain many sizes of tiles. Multiple such harmonies can be stacked together to produce nearly all ordered variations of visual layout in web and print.

As used hereinafter a global search is defined as a search box or option in which a search is performed and the data results come from a global search engine external to the publishing platform and the organization of the data results is suggested but doesn t have to be displayed in any specific order or format by a search engine such as Google Yahoo or Bing or from a featured media provider such as YouTube Vimeo or Flickr.

In the example of the system includes at least user interface user interaction engine tile evaluation engine tile layout engine and tile collection . As used herein the term engine refers to software firmware hardware or other component that is used to effectuate a purpose. The engine will typically include software instructions that are stored in non volatile memory also referred to as secondary memory . When the software instructions are executed at least a subset of the software instructions is loaded into memory also referred to as primary memory by a processor. The processor then executes the software instructions in memory. The processor may be a shared processor a dedicated processor or a combination of shared or dedicated processors. A typical program will include calls to hardware components such as I O devices which typically requires the execution of drivers. The drivers may or may not be considered part of the engine but the distinction is not critical.

In the example of each of the engines can run on one or more hosting devices hosts . Here a host can be a computing device a communication device a storage device or any electronic device capable of running a software component. For non limiting examples a computing device can be but is not limited to a laptop PC a desktop PC a tablet PC an iPod an iPhone an iPad Google s Android device a PDA or a server machine. A storage device can be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash memory drive or any portable storage device. A communication device can be but is not limited to a mobile phone.

In the example of the engines each has a communication interface not shown which is a software component that enables the engines to communicate with each other following certain communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol over one or more communication networks not shown . Here the communication networks can be but are not limited to internet intranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless network Bluetooth WiFi and mobile communication network. The physical connections of the network and the communication protocols are well known to those of skill in the art.

When the system depicted in is in operation tile evaluation engine accepts a tile collection having a plurality of tiles from dynamically aggregated feed of content. In addition tile evaluation engine also accepts and adjusts a plurality of tile templates and harmony configurations received from designer input in the form of a web document. Once the tile evaluation engine provides the plurality of tiles and their adjusted configurations to tile layout engine tile layout engine calculates the structural layout data for the plurality of tiles and detects if any of the tiles in the tile collection need to be processed with one of the tile templates. Tile layout engine then provides the structural layout data back to tile evaluation engine for evaluation to ensure that the structural layout is harmonious and tile metadata is reflected in structural decisions. Once evaluated tile layout engine adjusts and applies the structural layout data on the plurality of tiles to create a harmonious layout of the plurality of tiles. The harmonious layout of the plurality of tiles is then rendered by tile layout engine on user interface for presentation to the user. In the event that for a non limiting example the display area and or properties of the user interface have changed and a new layout is needed user interaction engine notifies tile layout engine to fetch more tiles from tile collection and to provide any metadata to tile layout engine .

In the example of the flowchart starts at block where a plurality of tiles from dynamically aggregated feed of content are accepted. The flowchart starts at block where a plurality of tile templates and harmony configurations received from designer input in form of a web document are accepted and adjusted. The flowchart continues to block where structural layout data is calculated for the plurality of tiles and any of the tiles needs to be processed with one of the tile templates is detected. The flowchart continues to block where the structural layout data is evaluated to ensure that the structural layout is harmonious. The flowchart continues to block where the structural layout data is adjusted and applied to the plurality of tiles to create a harmonious layout of the plurality of tiles. The flowchart ends at block where the harmonious layout of the plurality of tiles are rendered on a user interface for presentation to the user.

In the example of Tile Collection is an ordered set of tiles with an API of enumerable functions for such things as sorting filtering and searching. Tile Collection is used for adding and removing of Tiles. Each tile in Tile Collection is comprised of a Tile Model Tile View and Tile Controller as depicted in and described in details below. Tile Collection applies the Harmonies Logic to the Tile Models Tile Views then represent the visual form of the Tile Models in their harmonized state for harmonious layout.

In the example of Tile Model stores state and all the properties for an individual Tile with key value bindings. It dispatches Events when particular properties of the data change. All other components of the System may listen for these events and do something in response. This allows for highly concurrent asynchronous events to be triggered while keeping objects from knowing more than it needs to know and Tile Model validates the data.

In the example of Tile View represents everything sent to the user the pixels audio input fields text video etc. Tile View is the rendered form of a Tile Model . Tile Views bind to events from the Tile Models in order to asynchronously represent the state of the data. Each Tile View listens for events most commonly for user initiated events and responds by updating a Models State. Tile Views handle the particular implementation of rendering the data from the Tile Model . The Tile View is given a Template that it uses for rendering the data.

In the example of Tile Controller provides a RESTful interface to interact with the rest of the engines of harmonious tiling run time system .

In the example of a clear API is defined by system for creating and using different types of tiles and to give them a set of rules on how to generate the layout such as a video tile may restrict its possible aspect ratio causing the algorithm to adjust its order or find the tiles that best fit the rules to be presented in the same harmony.

In some embodiments tile layout engine enables an automatically generated harmonious layout to respond to the medium user interface in which it is being rendered. Thus if the layout is rendered in a small mobile browser it would optimize the harmonies to be viewed on a small screen with touch controls. This would be enabled by providing systems and methods for specifying a Responsive sets of rules for the layout depending on the properties of the browser and device.

In some embodiments tile layout engine enables the harmonious layout of the tiles to be applied to any arbitrary well formed HTML file. By specifying which DOM elements in the HTML to be included in the layout tile layout engine can then restructure any website s HTML to be presented in our Harmonious manner.

In some embodiments tile layout engine further enables replacing CSS based layouts in HTML browsers by enabling web developers to configure a Harmonious Tiling Layout in the metadata of HTML elements without comprising the semantic structure. By combining different types of Harmonies any structured layout can be implemented thus the present invention can be used instead of structuring HTML elements with CSS.

In some embodiments user interaction engine allows users to trade or purchase tile space in order to promote their businesses via user interface . Unlike today s website solutions which require manually updating content from other sources tile layout engine enables users to add an arbitrary number of tiles from other users to the harmonious layout which dynamically display the latest content from another user based on various relevancy signals. These tiles may be optimized similar to the ad and content tile optimization described in the below specification with the addition of using some form of traffic currency for trade e.g. clicks to open tiles or just tile views . A further example a popular site generating 100 clicks day may get 10 times more tile impressions on other sites than a site generating 10 clicks day.

In some embodiments tile layout engine allows multiple content contributors to publish tiles to a single website. Today s fixed layout website solutions typically require one person to make prioritization decisions on layout and importance of one block of content over another. In these systems even if more than one person has layout or prioritization access the social dynamics of not wanting to make a change without discussing with others prevents more than one person make the change. Tile layout engine eliminates these inefficiencies by dynamically organizing and optimizing the size and placement of the various content tiles based on predetermined rules which the content contributors have agreed upon explicitly by modifying the controls or implicitly by selecting a template with fixed controls.

In some embodiments the single user interface combines the action of searching and publishing as a single process whereby search results are formatted with the intention to facilitate publishing the chosen items. The present invention makes use of a single interface that allows a user to do perform daily search tasks from an independent search provider and publish commented searched saved directly into the web. Without this interface every search operation is mostly suggested as a single isolated task in which the search job ends when the information is found. To save store or do anything with the selected search result the user must perform operations such as copying pasting bookmarking and going to other interfaces different from the original interface. The concept of sharing publishing and commenting on search results promotes the concept of thinking about searches as items that the user will want to publish comment share save . Presenting an interface that will allow a user to easily do that allows the user to approach searches and the keywords chosen to perform these searches in a different way than a user would do if not thinking of searches with publishing intent. This is why the concept of a single user interface is so important. This idea also supports the following concept if a search is performed it is because the information from this operation is relevant to the user so by allowing the user to easily save publish and share the chosen search result about one set of keywords the searching task has a higher importance than it does if the user can not have easy means of tracking it.

For a non limiting example when a user researches for backend development and finds a really great link that solved something important the user has to perform many operations to share and keep that search result. It would a much more economical use of time to perform the search on an interface that will allow the user to publish the search task referencing the keyword term used the search provider and the result chosen into the user s wall so the user s audience followers colleagues etc. can see what information the user is interested in and which results the user found most important. This can be of huge importance for any type of collaborative researcher or team. In addition this single interface includes the idea of pre formatting search results according their type rank etc. with visual formats tiles best suited for quickly and easily publishing commenting them including saving relevant information of the search and tracking a history on my actions about this search.

In some embodiments tile layout engine creates a dashboard displaying media related to a user s interests. The related media may be implicitly determined by extracting concepts or keywords from the user s websites blogs social media posts posts of people followed posts re shared posts liked etc or explicitly by capturing keywords directly from the user.

In some embodiments the keywords may be sent to any source of content and in the exemplary version search engines which return content for easy publishing. The returned content may be displayed via the harmonious tiling layout serving as a visual prompt to the user to publish to one s harmonious tile based website.

In some embodiments the keywords may be displayed in multiple tabs which refresh in real time enabling one to quickly browse and quickly publish media related to one s interests. Unlike a browser where the search results are static the media related to keywords will be updated in real time.

In some embodiments the keywords for the multiple tabs are saved in a user store creating a persistent dashboard of search queries which can be loaded from any machine and any time unlike a browser where multiple web pages displayed as tabs can disappear once the browser window is closed and are only available from one machine. Furthermore a new search generates a new persistent search which may be represented as a tab. Any search may be deleted by user action e.g. clicking an x on the tab .

In some embodiments user interaction engine further provides global search capabilities in a publishing sharing platform to enable easy publishing of searched content from the web using a single interface. Unlike other search engine interfaces users can enter search terms with the intent of publishing and sharing the results. In some embodiments display of search results can be displayed as harmonious tiles.

In some embodiments user interaction engine provides a multi user version of the user interface that enables multiple users to not only share the published content discovered from the saved searches but also share their search results directly with each other so others can discover and publish content. Search engine interfaces today have no such functionality since they are not viewed as a dashboard where one checks for content related to a topic on a regular basis. Many corporate use cases exist where teams may share a set of saved searches related to their product or function or experts in a particular topic may share their saved searches for others to view to learn more about the expert s topic.

In some embodiments user interaction engine provides another multi user version of layout that enables franchise owners to view in their dashboard and publish to their network corporate approved content from the parent franchiser. A similar use case is for content experts in a particular field e.g. personal accounting to syndicate content into the dashboard of subscribers who pay the content expert for the feed of content which they can then publish to their network. Both of these use cases are not possible today due to the complexity of getting disparate content management and publishing systems to talk with one another.

In some embodiments the aforementioned search dashboard enables the following use cases and related value.

It is important to notice that these concepts can not be applied to all keywords possibly used to find information but there are very specific scenarios where it makes a lot of sense. For example if a user looks for dogs that is too broad but if a user looks for very specific information using keywords it works very well. The more specific the group the better the experience of publishing and sharing search results. For another example occasionally a search is performed and the user will not find exactly what he or she is looking for. If the user can perform a search about a set of keywords and publish in his or her wall that the user did not find what he she was looking for using xxxxxx keywords then another user may see this and suggest different terms or a page the user can go to. The benefit of this feature is that even if a search is not successful other users in the network can assist a user e.g. having the opportunity of not only for the search engine to help one user to find what he she is looking for but other people in the network can do this too. Thus there is value in publishing a search experience that was not successful. This actually extends the capabilities of the concept of a search engine as the only method of finding information. Now by sharing this info a user is bringing social network principles to the concept and use of a search. This concept can be explained in simple words by the way a search is understood. Normally a search is understood as a very smart matching of terms and keywords but maybe a better definition is an Internet search is a question to be answered a request for information therefore it is important to capture when it is successful or when it is not. When put in these terms it makes sense that publishing it will capture the real significance of why a user wants to do that search in the first place.

In one embodiment tile evaluation engine enables configuration of the harmonious tiling layout that produce vertical rhythm and horizontal rhythm to be input into the system that determine the visual properties of a subset of Tiles. A layout Harmony is input into the system as an Array of Arrays of the form x1 y1 options x2 y2 options . . . . Each inner array of the form x y options represents a single tile where x is the number columns y is the number of rows and options is all other variables for the sake of brevity options will be assumed to be null. x and y can take the form of percents or fractions or other similar mathematical signifiers. The columns and rows are of a base grid unit size and represent integer values of a normalized size. The system is input multiple harmonies in the form of a 3 level nested Array x1 y1 x2 y2 . . . x3 y3 x4 y4 . . . . . . 

For non limiting examples demonstrates how a vertical list layout can be achieved in a container of 10 columns repeating the following harmony 100 2 which for the container width of 10 columns is equivalent to 10 2 . demonstrates a 3 column layout by repeating the following harmony in a container of 16 columns wide 8 4 which is equivalent to 4 8 8 4 . demonstrates a unique 5 column layout in a 24 columns wide container with the following Harmony 3 8 6 8 6 4 . demonstrates a more complex example in a 20 column wide container with the following Harmony 

In some embodiments tile evaluation engine chooses parameters that will enable random variations of those harmonies to be produced and applied to the tiles. The randomness is applied by randomly shifting the order of the harmonies before being fed through the Layout Logic. Particular Harmonies and Tiles can be fixed in position. Tile evaluation engine can also generate random variations of these harmonies. Tile evaluation engine has parameters for keeping any particular Harmony in any particular order or randomizing the order of harmonies.

In some embodiments tile layout engine generates the Harmonies geared toward a specific application implementation of Layout Logic . The Layout Logic determines how the harmonies are visually constructed. The Default Layout Logic positions 2D polygonal tiles in a 2D polygonal container in a Cartesian coordinate system and follows the below 2 step layout process 

In some embodiments tile layout engine may adopt another layout logic implementation may first position the tile horizontally then vertically. More complex Layout Logic implementations that involve higher dimensions or alternative coordinate systems will involve more complex processes and a different structure for the harmonies. The harmonies discussed here are assumed to be applied to the Default Layout Logic .

In some embodiments the Harmonies determine the relative size and position of the Tiles while the Layout Logic determines how to construct the layout with straight forward rules. The Harmonies alleviate the Layout Logic from attempting to solve the most optimally packed layout and just process the Layout Logic with the given properties from the Harmonies. Thus our algorithm is deterministic and runs in linear time a desired minimum of polynomial time complexity O n .

In some embodiments the system is provided with a single data set of dynamically aggregated feed of content. The core layout algorithm and logics are wrapped with data manipulating functionality at runtime. This enables common runtime operations on the date set such as searching sorting filtering appending pre pending removing plucking comparing exporting to JSON exporting XML reducing mapping. This enables a perceived multitude of data sets.

In some embodiments MVC pattern can be used to ease the development of asynchronous UI s that actually use all the features of the system and methods of the present invention by dispatching events and providing methods and an API.

In some embodiments the system is primarily an Event Driven architecture where the models or Data Sets dispatch events that the views or UIs respond to. An alternate software architecture could be used with the same purpose.

In some embodiments the code used to implement system can be in JavaScript but just as easily applies to any programming language. In one embodiment the core is tied to rendering HTML CSS interface elements but rendering other interfaces including but not limited to Flask and the like.

In some embodiments tile layout engine can detect the most efficient visual layout based on predetermined usage metrics and self optimizes the visual layout. In one embodiment tile layout engine optimizes the visual layout of a website s content to determine the placement and percentage of ad tiles vs. content tiles. An example of a simple algorithm is to assign values to various content tile consumption actions e.g. click to view expanded content and use an estimate of the clicks per view based on past clicks per view to calculate an estimated value for displaying the content tile. For example a content tile which gets clicked on 20 times for every 100 website views with a value or 0.10 per click would be worth 0.02 per website view 20 100 0.10 . Similarly an ad which gets clicked on 1 time for every 100 website views with a value of 1.00 per click would be worth 0.01 1 100 1.00 . The website can mix content with ad tiles and rank them or change their tile size based on value per website view. Per this example the content tile 0.02 value would rank above the ad tile 0.01 value and could either be 2 as big or in a tile spot resulting in 2 the standard click through rate.

In some embodiments the value of a content tile or ad may be the sum of the value of each action on the content tile or ad. For example a content tile which gets liked 10 times for every 100 website views worth 0.20 per like action and which gets clicked on 20 times for every 100 website views with a value or 0.10 per click would be worth 0.04 per website view 10 100 0.20 20 100 10.10 .

In some embodiments the value of content tile actions may be derived from the value a website owner enters for the value of a user visit to their website and estimating the lifetime value of aggregate users who take that action. For example of users who leave a comment 20 make a repeat visit to the website every week while of the users who only view the content 1 of them make a repeat visit once a month. If the value to the website owner of each visit is 0.01 10 per 1 000 visits then the estimated lifetime value assume 3 years for simplicity of users who leave a comment is 0.31 0.01 0.2 52 3 and users who only view is 0.0036 0.01 0.01 12 3 . Other calculations to determine lifetime value may be discounted cash flow or to determine value for a website visit may be selecting your industry or the business model for your website e.g. ads vs. lead generation both etc . Lastly the website owner may select a sliding scale to bias the system to show less or to show more ads depending on the goals or stage of the business e.g. a new website owner may choose to show fewer ads in order to get more content consuming actions and resulting repeat visitors .

In some embodiments revenue generating actions may include but are not limited to views of ad tiles time spent viewing ad tile clicks on ad tiles time spent on advertiser website after clicking on a tile and conversions resulting from interaction with an ad tile or advertiser website. Each of these revenue generating action may also have an associated value assigned to them. Content consuming actions may include views of content tiles mouse over of content tiles clicks of content tiles views and time spent viewing expanded content from a tile mouse over views clicks and time spend viewing related content contained in the expanded content from a tile likes and comments of content tiles or expanded content from a tile either on said website or other websites where tile content may be published. Each of these content consuming attributes may also have an associated value assigned to them. Types of ad tiles may be but are not limited to text image animated image video interactive widgets audio etc.

In some embodiments user Interface is a single user interface that combines the actions of both searching and publishing as one single integrated process. shows an example of a possible implementation of such an interface. shows an example of search results rendered in the harmonious tiling system with a configurable set of search sources and tabs for previous searches.

In some embodiments user Interface presents the search results come from a search provider that crawls and indexes the web Google Yahoo Bing others and is independent from the search capabilities provided by the executing interface. The search results are formatted with intention to facilitate publishing of chosen items with the capability of saving sharing social networking and commenting selected search results in the web as part of content for publishing tasks.

In the implementation to publish this search results options may be added to save the keyword term used in the search the number of search items viewed before the desired published item was selected and additional information about the search experience. Specifically the implementation to display the search results can be done in different ways to match the look and feel of the enclosing interface. One example is a simple list in which the results are displayed vertically. There are other formats in which results can be displayed using the TILE format. This format described in the other patent can include video image formatted text etc.

In some embodiments the action of viewing the content in the search results inside of the executing interface can be implemented in an which encapsulates the complete website and can add visual options to save comment share the result within the same site.

In some embodiments with respect to the implementation getting the results from search engine a user can use standard API calls provided search providers which send a JSON file JavaScript Object Notation using AJAX technology to get the data and format it quickly in the results.

In some embodiments a set of options may be added to the dashboard for saving the search term and store it as web tabs for quickly browsing previous search results. This facilities easy browsing between searches to compare results. In some embodiments the option to select a search provider from multiples sources can also be added in the interface for easily comparing search results in the dashboard.

In some embodiments a mechanism may be added to user interface for indicating whether the search is successful or not. This mechanism can be a simple link that saves the results or it can be more sophisticated. A simple rate system can be implemented in which users can rate a search experience and communicate the value found in their operation positive negative very good acceptable etc. 

In some embodiments more than one search results can be selected into this experience so a user can aggregate results into one source of information.

One embodiment may be implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor s programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

One embodiment includes a computer program product which is a machine readable medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program one or more hosts to perform any of the features presented herein. The machine readable medium can include but is not limited to one or more types of disks including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs micro drive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human viewer or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers and applications.

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the claimed subject matter has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claimed subject matter to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Particularly while the concept interface is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent software concepts such as class method type module component bean module object model process thread and other suitable concepts. While the concept component is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent concepts such as class method type interface module object model and other suitable concepts. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best describe the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the claimed subject matter the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated.

