---

title: Individual control of backlight light-emitting diodes
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes, by software of a computing device, dynamically identifying a particular region of a display of the computing device. The method also includes, by the software and through a device driver of the computing device, dynamically adjusting one or more particular ones of a plurality of backlighting components of the display associated with the particular region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08976105&OS=08976105&RS=08976105
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08976105
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
A display often uses a backlight as a light source to provide a visible image on the display. A backlight can illuminate a display from the side or back of the display panel.

A display often uses a backlight as a light source to provide a visible image on the display. A backlight can illuminate a display from the side or back of the display panel. Displays such as liquid crystal displays LCDs often have internal built in light sources for backlighting. illustrates an example display. An example display of may comprise screen and backlight . Screen may comprise one or more layers of components. For example a touch screen of an LCD display may comprise liquid crystal layers for light modulation one or more polarizing film layers for light filtering and one or more layers of glass substrates with touch sensors. Backlight may comprise one or more backlighting components . Backlighting components may be disposed in an array structure such as illustrated in . Backlighting components may be disposed at the edge of a display. This disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangements for backlighting components of a display. Backlighting components may comprise any suitable light source such as for example light emitting diodes LEDs an electroluminescent panel or cold cathode fluorescent or any suitable combination of the forgoing. Backlighting components may comprise light source of any suitable color. For example backlight of an LCD display may comprise an array of white LEDs. As for another example backlight of an LCD display may comprise an array of red green blue RGB LEDs. As yet for another example backlight of an LCD display may comprise an array of white LEDs with a red LED adjacent to each white LED. As yet for another example backlight of an LCD display may comprise white LEDs disposed at the edge of the display.

Backlighting components of a display may be controlled individually or in groups for purposes of visual effects or power efficiency. Ordinarily controlling backlighting components uses methods that analyze content of images being displayed in a display. For example a computing device e.g. a laptop computer a smart phone may display in its display an image or a video that has bright color in the upper half of the image and dark color in the lower half of the image e.g. sun rising over a mountain . A graphical processing unit or a central processing unit of the device can analyze content of the image by inspecting frames being sent to the display. The graphical processing unit can determine that the lower half of the display does not need strong backlighting and decrease light intensity by approximately 50 for backlighting components corresponding to the lower half of the display. However adjusting backlight of a display by analyzing content of images being displayed may not be efficient as the analyzing content of images itself consumes energy.

Instead of analyzing content of images being displayed at a display particular embodiments may dynamically determine backlighting requirement for one or more regions of the display before images a displayed. illustrates an example method for individual control of backlighting components for partial display. In particular embodiments a display of a computing device may comprise a plurality of backlighting components. The computing device may be a laptop computer a tablet computer an in or out of car navigation system a handheld game console an electronic book reader a mobile phone a television set or any other suitable computing device or combination of such devices. In particular embodiments the plurality of backlighting components may be LEDs. In particular embodiments the plurality of backlighting components may be of any suitable colors. In particular embodiments software e.g. an application or an operating system hosted by the computing device may dynamically identify a particular region of the display of the computing device STEP . illustrates another example display of a mobile phone. For example the software can be a messaging application of the mobile phone. The messaging application may receive a Short Message Service SMS message through the mobile phone s communication interface. The messaging application may identify the very top portion of the mobile phone s display for displaying the message as illustrated in . In particular embodiments the software may dynamically adjust one or more particular ones of the plurality of backlighting components of the display associated with the particular region STEP . The software may dynamically adjust the particular ones of the backlighting components by accessing an application programming interface API to cause a device driver of the plurality of backlighting components to adjust the particular ones of backlighting components. For example the messaging application can dynamically adjust e.g. by accessing an API the backlighting components for the very top portion of the mobile phone s display as illustrated in . For example the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components to approximately 100 light intensity. For example the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components to approximately 50 light intensity if the messaging application determines e.g. by accessing a system clock of the mobile phone that the current time is close to midnight. For example the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components to approximately 50 light intensity if the messaging application determines e.g. by accessing a light sensor of the mobile phone that the ambient lighting is dim or dark . For example the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components to approximately 50 light intensify if the messaging application determines e.g. by accessing a device driver of the mobile phone s battery that the mobile phone s remaining battery life is low e.g. below 15 of the battery s full capacity . For example the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components or select a subset of the backlighting components to emit only red light or any other suitable particular color light if the messaging application determines that the ambient lighting is dim or dark . For example if the messaging application determines that its user interface is in a single color e.g. red the messaging application may adjust the backlighting components or select a subset of the backlighting components to emit only the single color. That is the messaging application may reduce power consumption of the mobile device s display by adjusting backlighting components to emit the most efficient color of backlighting components or only the color that may not be filtered e.g. by the display s polarizing films . Since the messaging application only display the SMS message at the very top portion of the mobile phone s display the messaging application may identify another area corresponding to the rest of the mobile phone s display as illustrated in . The messaging application may dynamically adjust backlighting components corresponding to the area . For example the messaging application may turn off e.g. by accessing an API backlight components to conserve energy. Furthermore the messaging application may instruct a device driver of the mobile phone s display to refresh only for the very top portion of the display.

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

The example method of can be implemented for any suitable software of a computing device to identify any suitable particular region of the computing device s display and adjust backlighting components accordingly. For example a navigation application of a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone a tablet computer may display a navigation map in the whole screen of the mobile device s display. The navigation application may determine e.g. by accessing a light sensor of the mobile device that the ambient lighting is dim and dynamically adjust backlighting components of the mobile device s display to emit red light only. As for another example a stand by application of a television set may display a clock at the lower right corner of the television set s display when the television set is in stand by mode. The stand by application may dynamically turn on backlighting components corresponding to the lower right corner of the display while turning off rest of the backlighting components of the display. An operating system of a computing device may identify one or more regions of the computing device s display and adjust backlighting components accordingly. For example the operating system may display a system alert e.g. a message indicating low battery or dropped network connection at the top one third of the display. The operating system may dynamically turn on backlighting components corresponding to the top one third of the display while turning off backlighting components corresponding to the rest of the display. In some embodiments backlighting control by the operating system may take precedence over backlighting control requests from applications running on the computing device.

A web browser or a special purpose application e.g. Facebook for Mobile provided by Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. hosted by a computing device e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer or a mobile phone may present in its user interface a structured document e.g. a web page in a display of the computing device. The structure document may contain static content such as articles emails or pictures. The structure document may also contain dynamic content such as streaming videos or animations. Another example of dynamic content of a structured document is Facebook Ticker provided by Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. Facebook Ticker presents substantially real time content such as news update and online chat in a box or an iframe within a Facebook web page. The special purpose application or the web browser may adjust backlighting of the display based on the static and dynamic content of the structured document. For example the special purpose application may determine that a viewer of the structured document has been idle e.g. no user input event such as mouse click or mouse hovering for a specified time e.g. 3 minutes . The special purpose application may identify in its user interface one or more regions for static content of the structured document. The special purpose application may dynamically turn off one or more backlighting components of the display corresponding to the one or more regions for static content of the structured document. That is the special purpose application may dim off static content of the structured document by turning off corresponding backlighting components if there is no user input activity while maintaining displaying dynamic content of the structured document. In one embodiment the special purpose application or the web browser may adjust backlighting of the display based on the importance of content of the structured document. For example the special purpose application may identify in its user interface one or more regions with high importance. The one or more regions with high importance may correspond to dynamic content of the structured document. The one or more regions with high importance may correspond to a frame that the viewer has last interacted with e.g. an email message that the viewer was composing . The special purpose application may maintain backlighting for the one or more regions with high importance and turn off backlighting components of the display corresponding to rest of the structured document.

In particular embodiments a messaging application or any other suitable application of a computing device may dynamically adjust e.g. by accessing an API backlighting components of the computing device s display based on the messages and notifications it receives. For example the message application may receive a message and determine e.g. by inspecting the sender or content of the message the message is an advertisement from a trusted or paid advertiser. The messaging application may display the advertising message in the top portion of the computing device s display. Meanwhile the messaging application may highlight the advertising message by dynamically turning on backlighting components corresponding to the top portion of the display and turning off backlighting components corresponding to the rest of the display. As for another example the message may receive a message and determine a location associated with the message e.g. by accessing an address book stored in the computing device for the message sender s address . The messaging application may determine the computing device s location e.g. by accessing the computing device s Global Positioning System sensor or a mapping application . If the message s location and the computing device s location is within a preset distance e.g. within 2 miles the messaging application may display the message in the middle one third portion of the computing device s display. Meanwhile the messaging application may highlight the message by dynamically turning on backlighting components corresponding to the middle one third portion of the display and turning off backlighting components corresponding to the rest of the display.

As for another example the messaging application may receive a message and determine an affinity score between a user of the computing device and a sender of the message. An affinity score may be 1.0 if the sender is the user s immediate family members e.g. parents siblings . An affinity score may be 0.9 if the sender frequently communicates with the user. An affinity score may be 0.7 if the sender is the user s first degree social contact in a social graph of a social networking system. Interaction between users on a social networking system such as chats wall posts emails and the like can also be used in scoring affinities between users of the social networking system. Methods of measuring affinity scoring are described later. The message may include an affinity score determined by a server transmitting the message to the computing device. The messaging application may also access locally stored affinity scores to determine an affinity score for the message. The messaging application may also determine an affinity score for the message by accessing an address book e.g. stored on the computing device and determine the relationship between the user and the sender. The messaging application may display the message in the top portion of the computing device s display if the message s affinity score is high e.g. above a preset threshold . Meanwhile the messaging application may highlight the high affinity message by dynamically turning on backlighting components corresponding to the top portion of the display and turning off backlighting components corresponding to the rest of the display.

In one embodiment a process running in a social networking environment requests a measure of affinity for a particular user from a module that implements an affinity function. The module in one implementation computes the requested measure of affinity by combining e.g. adding a weighted set of predictor functions where each predictor function predicts whether the user will perform a different action. The weights may be provided by the process that requests the measure of affinity which allows the requesting process to weight the predictor functions differently. In this sense the affinity function is tunable by the requesting process for its own purpose. In one implementation affinities may be computed for the purposes of computing an affinity score of an outgoing message to an intended recipient.

The predictor functions may predict whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. For example a predictor function may be derived based on a user s historical activity such as interacting with other users utilizing the social networking system functionality discussed above for example . Additionally the predictor function may include a decay factor that causes the strength of the signal provided by the user s historical activity to decay with time. The predictor functions may predict any number of actions which may be within or outside of the social networking system. For example these actions may include various types of a user s communications such as messages posting of content and commenting on content various types of a user s observation actions such as viewing profiles of other connections and viewing photos and content posted by other connections and various types of coincidence information about two or more users such as being tagged in the same photograph checked in at the same location and attending the same event. A predictor function may be determined using a machine learning algorithms trained on historical activity and past user responses or data farmed from users by exposing them to various options and measuring responses.

To predict the likely actions a user may take in a given situation any process on the social networking system or outside may request a measure of affinity for a user by providing a set of weights. The measure of affinity may reflect the user s interest in other users content actions advertisements or any other objects in the social networking system. The weights may be binary or more generally any real number. In one implementation messages intended for a communications device of a subject user that are transmitted or intermediated by the social networking system for example may be processed to compute an affinity between the subject user and the message. The affinity value can be appended to the message prior to transmission to the communications device. In other implementations a process hosted on the communications device may access the affinity module to request the measure of affinity. In some implementations the communications device may request affinities between the subject user of the communications device and one or more other users identified in a contacts database of the subject user stored locally on the communications device or remotely on the social networking system . Revised affinity values can be obtained during subsequent synchronization processes. Communications device may use these affinity values for messages from the respective users. In other implementations the communications device may monitor interactions locally and compute affinity values locally.

The weights of the affinity function enable it to be used by various processes in the social networking system environment for different purposes. For example in a process that provides advertisements with social endorsements from a viewer s friends an ad algorithm may use the measure of affinity function to determine which of a user s connections to mention in the social endorsement or what type of actions to mention in the endorsement. The measure of affinity may then be based on those predictor functions that show how interested the user is in viewing the content posted by another user as well as one or more predictor functions that show how interested the user is in various actions that may be mentioned in the social endorsement. The ad algorithm would thus provide relatively large weights for these predictor functions so that the resulting measure of affinity would more accurately determine which social endorsements would be more interesting to the viewing user. The ad algorithm would then select the social endorsement using the resulting measure of affinity thereby increasing the likelihood of conversion of the advertisement.

As a second example in a process for a messaging application that intermediates communications between users a social algorithm may use the measure of affinity function to determine what level of interest a user may have in a message sent by a particular sending user. The measure of affinity for this purpose may be based on predictor functions that show how interested the user is in viewing the content posted by the user s connections and or how often the users send messages to one another in general as well as one or more predictor functions that show how interested the user is posting or accessing different types of messages. Accordingly the social algorithm would weight these predictor functions relatively high so that the resulting measure of affinity would accurately determine which messages would be more interesting to the viewing user. Because of the highly tunable nature of the affinity function enabled by the weighted predictor functions it can be used for a number of different purposes.

The action store stores actions that have been performed by the users of the social networking system along with an indication of the time associated with those actions and references to any objects related to the actions. Additionally the action store may store statistics for specified categories of actions. For example for a given user the action store may contain the number of wall posts in 30 days by a user messages sent by the user number of photos posted by the user in 30 days and number of distinct users that received the user s comments in 30 days. For a given connection between two users user A and user B the action store may contain actions such as the number of profile page views from A to B the number of photo page views from A to B the number of messages from A to B and the number of times A and B were tagged in the same photo and these actions may be associated with a timestamp or may be filtered by a cutoff e.g. 24 hours 90 days etc. . The actions recorded in the action store may be farmed actions which are performed by a user in response to the social networking system providing suggested choices of actions to the user.

The predictor module is responsible for computing a set predictor functions which predict whether a user will perform a set of corresponding actions. As discussed above each predictor function may be representative of a user s interest in a particular action associated with the predictor function . The historical activity of a user may be used as a signal of a user s future interest in the same activity. In some embodiments the predictor function is generated using a machine learned algorithm that is trained using a user s historical activity associated with an action. The predictor module thus provides a predictor function for each of a set of actions where a predictor function may take as an input the a user s historical activity and then outputs a measure of the likelihood that the user will engage in the corresponding activity.

In some embodiments one or more of the predictor functions may use a decay factor in which the strength of the signal from a user s historical activity decays with time. Moreover different predictor functions may decay the historical activity at different rates. For example some types of user activity like adding a new connection indicate a more persistent interest than other types of activity that indicate a more ephemeral interest like commenting on another user s status. Therefore the predictor functions may decay the effect of historical activity based on an understanding about how that activity may become less relevant over the passage of time. Various decay mechanisms may be used for this purpose. For example a predictor function may use a mathematical function such as an exponential decay to decay the statistics about a user behavior. In another embodiment the decay is implemented by selecting only those statistics about a user behavior that occurred within a specific window of time such as 24 hours or 30 days.

In one embodiment a predictor function is realized as a ratio of two affine functions as shown in equation 1 . The numerator and denominator affine functions take statistics of the user s historical activity as inputs.

The denominator affine function can represent a normalization of the numerator affine function. For example the number of comments made by a user may be normalized by among other statistics the number of times the user has been active on the social networking system . In particular by altering bfor i 0 1 2 . . . M the normalization pattern can be changed. In some embodiments some or all of the coefficients afor i 0 1 2 . . . N and bfor i 0 1 2 . . . M are determined through machine learning which may be implemented by the predictor module . In a particular embodiment a supervised machine learning algorithm is used with the training data obtained through farming by providing a statistically significant number of users several options and monitoring their response. In another embodiment the supervised machine learning algorithm is trained entirely based on historical user activity and past responses to choices of actions. The predictor functions may also be non linear. An example embodiment implements a predictor function for a family where the predictor function includes an if then construct for the members of the family i.e. the predictor function is computed differently depending on whether it is being computed for the parents or the children.

Some predictor functions in the social networking system may predict actions related to a user s communication in the social networking system . The statistics specifically related to communications may include broadcast data and communication data. Broadcast data may include for example the number of photos posted by the user in a given time period the number of posts via applications by the user in a given time period and any other communication that the user has posted or otherwise distributed to a group of other users. Communication data may include for example the number of likes from the user in a given time period number of comments posted by user in a given time period and any other information about the user s communication activities.

Similarly some predictor functions in the social networking system may predict actions related to a user s observation of content in the social networking system . The statistics specifically related to observation may include for example the number of profile page views by the user of another user in a given time period the number of photo views by the user in a given time period the number of views of an advertisement containing a social endorsement in a given time period and any other activity involving the viewing of content by the user.

Finally some predictor functions in the social networking system may predict actions related to a user s coincidence with one or more other users of the social networking system. The statistics specifically related to coincidence may include for example a rate at which two or more users have been tagged in the same photograph have checked in at the same location or have confirmed e.g. via RSVP that they will be attending the same event and any other activity involving an action or object in the social networking system related to multiple users.

The affinity module provides a measure of affinity based on input data about the user from the social networking system using the predictor functions . In the embodiment of the affinity module sums the predictor functions linearly as shown in equation 2 . However other implementations are equally feasible. . . . 2 where A is the measure of affinity requested Pfor i 0 1 2 . . . s are the s predictor functions in the social networking system and for i 1 2 . . . s are the weights assigned to the s predictor functions in the social networking system .

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM .

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard microphone display touch screen mouse speaker camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN e.g. a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network e.g. a 802.11a b g n WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Long Term Evolution LTE network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect Express or PCI Express bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Inter Integrated Circuit I2C bus a Secure Digital SD memory interface a Secure Digital Input Output SDIO interface a Universal Serial Bus USB bus a General Purpose Input Output GPIO bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards SECURE DIGITAL drives or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

