---

title: Methods and systems for configuring sensor acquisition based on pressure steps
abstract: Technologies are provided for underwater measurements. A system includes an underwater vessels including: a plurality of sensors disposed thereon for measuring underwater properties; and a programmable controller configured to selectively activate the plurality of sensors based at least in part on underwater pressure. A user may program at what pressure ranges certain sensors are activated to measure selected properties, and may also program the ascent/descent rate of the underwater vessel, which is correlated with the underwater pressure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954211&OS=08954211&RS=08954211
owner: Teledyne Instruments, Inc.
number: 08954211
owner_city: Thousand Oaks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121005
---
This application claims priority from Provisional Application U.S. Application 61 545 036 filed Oct. 7 2011. This application is incorporated hereby by reference in its entirety as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention may have been made at least in part with support from NASA award number NNX09AP51G. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

Underwater vehicles such as floats may be used to measure physical and chemical properties of the ocean detect underwater objects and image seafloors or lakebeds. Various sensors such as pressure sensors chemical sensors temperature sensors and sonars may be disposed on an underwater vessel. The underwater vessel may be tethered towed from a platform such as a ship anchored to the hull of the ship or may be an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV or autonomous underwater vehicle AUV .

Systems apparatuses and methods are provided for underwater measurements. In some embodiments a system is provided comprising an underwater vessel comprising a plurality of sensors disposed thereon for measuring underwater properties including pressure and a programmable controller configured to select one or more of the plurality of sensors to activate and or sample based at least in part on an underwater pressure.

In embodiments a method is provided for measuring underwater properties comprising measuring by a pressure sensor a current pressure comparing by one or more computers the current pressure to pressure threshold limits for a plurality of respective pressure ranges wherein each of the respective pressure ranges is associated with a respective set of one or more of the sensors and activating and or sampling by the one or more computers a respective one of the sets of one or more of the sensors when the current pressure range is within the pressure range associated with the respective one set of sensors.

In embodiments a method for measuring underwater properties is provided comprising measuring by a pressure sensor a current pressure comparing by one or more computers the current pressure to pressure threshold limits for a plurality of respective pressure ranges wherein each of the respective pressure ranges is associated with a respective set of one or more of the sensors comparing by one or more computers a current time and or date to a plurality of sets of data and or time ranges wherein the respective sets of the one or more sensors are associated with respective time and or date ranges and activating and or sampling by one or more computers a respective one of the sets of one or more of the sensors when the current pressure range is within the pressure range associated with the respective one set of sensors and a current time and or date is within the time and or date range associated with the respective one set of sensors.

It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in greater detail below provided such concepts are not mutually inconsistent are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. In particular all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. It should also be appreciated that terminology explicitly employed herein that also may appear in any disclosure incorporated by reference should be accorded a meaning most consistent with the particular concepts disclosed herein.

The foregoing and other aspects embodiments and features of the present teachings may be more fully understood from the following description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Following below are more detailed descriptions of various concepts related to and embodiments of inventive methods and apparatus for underwater measurements and controls. It should be appreciated that various concepts introduced above and discussed in greater detail below may be implemented in any of numerous ways as the disclosed concepts are not limited to any particular manner of implementation. Examples of specific implementations and applications are provided primarily for illustrative purposes.

In various embodiments disclosed herein measurements are made during profiling of water where a float is ascending or descending through the water. The profile may be a vertical profile over a column of water and or have a significant or insignificant lateral span during the ascent or descent. In embodiments a mechanism is implemented to control when different sensors are used activated throughout a profile.

In embodiments a top surface or remote modem may communicate with the float . In embodiments the float may be powered and or towed by a surface vessel or an underwater vessel . In embodiments the float may be fully autonomous and without tethering cables. In embodiments the modem may connect to float via a cable via a port and underwater cable or wirelessly to name a few. In embodiments the float may be managed by a computer which may be connected to the modem by various available means such as cable or wirelessly. In embodiments a computer for managing the float may be disposed in the float itself. The computer in the float may then communicate with the computer on the vessel via the modem .

During ascent or descent a profile of parameters of the water volume may be measured by sensors onboard the float and transmitted to the modem and computer for analysis. In embodiments some or all of the analysis may be performed by a computer on board the float . In embodiments a pressure sensor disposed on the float may be coupled to a processing circuit or control circuit configured to process measurement of the pressure of the water in the area around the vessel. In embodiments the processing circuit may then be configured to select one or more sensors for activation sensing or reading based at least in part on the sensed pressure. As noted the processing circuit may be disposed in the float and or may be disposed in the vessel.

In embodiments users require a variety of sensor packages on their underwater vessels such as floats but do not need to use all of these sensors through an entire water volume. This leads to a scenario where data collected is then discarded. The energy used by the float to collect and or to sample the data is wasted. In embodiments conserving energy may be important for autonomous underwater floats that are designed to function independently for many days.

In embodiments a control circuit may be used to measure and or sample the measurement of all or a selected set of sensors at predetermined pressure points or in predetermined pressure ranges. In embodiments the control circuit may use Pressure tables to determine when to measure and or sample. In embodiments pressure tables may be programmed into the floats by manufacturers. In embodiments the pressure tables may not be changeable in the field. In embodiments the pressure tables may be changeable in the field either remotely or by the operator.

In embodiments the control circuit may comprise a comparison circuit for comparing current pressure from the pressure sensor to predetermined pressures in a pressure table. In embodiments the control circuit may compare current pressure from the pressure sensor to upper and lower threshold limits that define one or more pressure ranges.

In embodiments a profile may be stored in a memory in either the float or the vessel for example in the form of a table. In embodiments the table may be divided into a plurality of pressure ranges defined by upper and lower thresholds. Within the given range one or more of the sensors may be activated and or sampled and or used selectively or differently.

In embodiments behavior of the float may be controlled based at least in part on the particular pressure range. In embodiments an ascent rate and or a descent rate may be controlled based at least in part on the particular pressure range. In embodiments the control circuit as set by the user or as pre set may be pre programmed to cause different sensors to sample and or to activate at different points or ranges in the water volume . In embodiments the control circuit as set by the user or as pre set may be pre programmed to cause different sensors to sample and or activate at different points or ranges in the water volume with different resolutions number of samples in the pressure range in the data profiles. In embodiments the program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium onboard the float implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gated array FPGA . In embodiments the program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium implemented in the remote computer as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gated array FPGA .

Profile threshold levels which may be editable by the user may be used to describe how the various sensors and float behaviors are activated and or sampled while profiling and are shown in the example Table 1 below. Each profile may be divided into a plurality of pressure ranges within which sensors may be used differently.

 Pressure in the Table indicates the pressure at which to start the sampling scheme. The interval entries indicate when within each pressure range sensors are activated used. For example an interval entry of 25 in row 2 indicates use of sensors at pressures of 700 675 650 625 600 575 . . . 300 dbar. The data profile resolution would be lower in this case as compared with pressure range 1 where an interval of 10 dbar is adopted or pressure range 3 where an interval of 5 dbar is adopted.

 Slow in the Table indicates whether the float should ascend slowly e.g. at 0.04 dbar sec or quickly at 0.08 dbar sec during the particular pressure range. In embodiments specific speeds of ascent or descent may be set. This may be modified to allow for other accent or descent rates as well. By programming the speed of ascent and or descent parameter the user may control the data sampling speed. Additional float behaviors may be added or substituted in place of the pressure parameter to control the ascent and or descent of the float through the water volume. For example the ascent and or the descent behavior may be based at least in part on salinity as measured by the salinity sensor and or the temperature and or the flow rate.

 Sensors 1 4 with indicators ON indicate at what pressure step the sensor is turned on. Pressure intervals may be as small or as large as needed and pressure steps may be as close or as far apart as needed. In embodiments for those pressure ranges corresponding to depth ranges in which the sensors are programmed to be OFF the specified sensors may be turned OFF or in dormant states to save energy. In embodiments the user may program as many parameters as desired.

In embodiments a commercially available float e.g. Teledyne Webb Research Apex float or a non commercially available float may be implemented with the inventive embodiments disclosed herein and used for for example bio geo chemical profiling measurements. A variety of commercially available sensors may be used such as a Satlantic WETLabs bio optical sensor system or sensors to be developed in the future may be used.

In embodiments different sets of sensors and or different sampling modes may be used between different pressure ranges corresponding to different depths and at different times such as different times during the day. In addition float behavior such as ascent rate or descent rate may be controlled depending on the pressure range. In embodiments sensors may be grouped into sets with properties such as data verbosity e.g. amount of data in a text stream levels. For example where data transmission bandwidth is limited a sensor with a high verbosity level may be combined with sensors with low verbosity levels or which are set to have low verbosity levels based on sampling rate. In embodiments sensors may be grouped into sets based at least in part on whether they are active optic measurement sensors e.g. radiating light or other radiation into the water and measuring a response or radiometry related measurement sensors e.g. measuring a response in the water from sunlight . In embodiments profiles may be divided into pressure ranges with each sensor set being programmed separately within each pressure range. In embodiments profiles may be updated remotely e.g. via the Iridium satellite system which may be important when ocean properties to be measured change due to season or float location. An onboard controller may receive the instructions from the user to program the control table such as the example illustrated as Table 1.

In embodiments as illustrated in a method for measuring underwater properties may comprise a step of measuring by a pressure sensor a current pressure. In embodiments the method may further comprise the step of comparing by one or more computers the current pressure to pressure threshold limits for a plurality of respective pressure ranges wherein each of the respective pressure ranges is associated with a respective set of one or more of the sensors. In embodiments the method may further comprise the step of activating and or sampling by the one or more computers a respective one of the sets of one or more of the sensors when the current pressure range is within the pressure range associated with the respective one set of sensors.

In embodiments the method may further comprise controlling by the one or more computers an ascent or descent rate of the underwater vessel based at least in part on the current pressure.

In embodiments of the method a respective frequency of activation and or sampling is associated with each of the respective pressure ranges and the activating and or sampling step may activate and or sample the set of one or more of the sensors with the associated frequency when the current pressure is within the pressure range associated with the respective one set.

In embodiments of the method the frequency of activation and or sampling is further associated with a time range and or a date range and the activating and or sampling step may activate and or sample the set of one or more of the sensors with the associated frequency only when a current time and or date is within is within the time and or date range associated with the respective frequency.

In embodiments of the method the programmable controller is configured to control an ascent or descent rate of the underwater vessel based at least in part on the underwater pressure.

In embodiments as reflected in a method for measuring underwater properties may comprise the step of measuring by a pressure sensor a current pressure. In embodiments the method may further comprise the step of comparing by one or more computers the current pressure to pressure threshold limits for a plurality of respective pressure ranges wherein each of the respective pressure ranges is associated with a respective set of one or more of the sensors. In embodiments the method may further comprise the step of comparing by one or more computers a current time and or date to a plurality of sets of date and or time ranges wherein the respective sets of the one or more sensors are associated with respective time and or date ranges. In embodiments the method may further comprise the step of activating and or sampling a respective one of the sets of one or more of the sensors when the current pressure range is within the pressure range associated with the respective one set of sensors and a current time and or date is within the time and or date range associated with the respective one set of sensors.

In embodiments of the method the sensors are grouped into the sets based at least in part on one or more selected from the group of data verbosity level and whether active optic measurements are required and whether radiometry related measurements are required.

All literature and similar material cited in this application including but not limited to patents patent applications articles books treatises and web pages regardless of the format of such literature and similar materials are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described in any way.

While various inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and or structures for performing the function and or obtaining the results and or one or more of the advantages described herein and each of such variations and or modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the inventive embodiments described herein. More generally those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters dimensions materials and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters dimensions materials and or configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the inventive teachings is are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific inventive embodiments described herein. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto inventive embodiments may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. Inventive embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to each individual feature system article material kit and or method described herein. In addition any combination of two or more such features systems articles materials kits and or methods if such features systems articles materials kits and or methods are not mutually inconsistent is included within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.

The above described embodiments of the invention may be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example some embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When any aspect of an embodiment is implemented at least in part in software the software code may be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single device or computer or distributed among multiple devices computers.

Also the technology described herein may be embodied as a method of which at least one example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

All definitions as defined and used herein should be understood to control over dictionary definitions definitions in documents incorporated by reference and or ordinary meanings of the defined terms.

The indefinite articles a and an as used herein in the specification and in the claims unless clearly indicated to the contrary should be understood to mean at least one. 

The phrase and or as used herein in the specification and in the claims should be understood to mean either or both of the elements so conjoined i.e. elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements listed with and or should be construed in the same fashion i.e. one or more of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the and or clause whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example a reference to A and or B when used in conjunction with open ended language such as comprising may refer in one embodiment to A only optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to B only optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to both A and B optionally including other elements etc.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims or should be understood to have the same meaning as and or as defined above. For example when separating items in a list or or and or shall be interpreted as being inclusive i.e. the inclusion of at least one but also including more than one of a number or list of elements and optionally additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary such as only one of or exactly one of or when used in the claims consisting of will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general the term or as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives i.e. one or the other but not both when preceded by terms of exclusivity such as either one of only one of or exactly one of Consisting essentially of when used in the claims shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.

As used herein in the specification and in the claims the phrase at least one in reference to a list of one or more elements should be understood to mean at least one element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements but not necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase at least one refers whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus as a non limiting example at least one of A and B or equivalently at least one of A or B or equivalently at least one of A and or B may refer in one embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A with no B present and optionally including elements other than B in another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one B with no A present and optionally including elements other than A in yet another embodiment to at least one optionally including more than one A and at least one optionally including more than one B and optionally including other elements etc.

In the claims as well as in the specification above all transitional phrases such as comprising including carrying having containing involving holding composed of and the like are to be understood to be open ended i.e. to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases consisting of and consisting essentially of shall be closed or semi closed transitional phrases respectively as set forth in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures Section 2111.03.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. It should be understood that various changes in form and detail may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. All embodiments that come within the spirit and scope of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed.

