---

title: Customizing content delivery from a brand page to a user in a social networking environment
abstract: A social networking system user's interaction with a brand page may be tailored to match the user's interests. Content providers or page administrators of a brand page associate keywords with content posted to the brand page. A keyword may define a characteristic of a social networking system user to receive the content or may describe a characteristic of the content. The keywords are compared to a user profile of a user requesting the brand page and content posted to the brand page is selected for presentation to the user based on the user profile and the keywords. For example, content is presented to a user having a characteristic defined by criteria keyword. The selected content posted to the brand page is presented to the user requesting the brand page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195632&OS=09195632&RS=09195632
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09195632
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120926
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to social networking and more specifically to personalized distribution of content items to users of a social networking system.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. In particular a social networking system allows users to more efficiently communicate information that is relevant to their friends or other connections in the social network. Social networks typically incorporate a system for maintaining connections among users in the social network and links to content that are likely to be relevant to the users. Social networks also collect and maintain information about the users of the social network. This information may be static such as geographic location employer job type age music preferences interests and a variety of other attributes or it may be dynamic such as tracking a user s actions within the social network. This information can then be used to target information delivery so that information more likely to be of particular interest to a user can be communicated to that user.

While social networking systems allow people to exchange information with each other they also allow entities to provide information to users of the social networking system. Examples of entities include businesses organizations and celebrities. An entity may create a brand page which is associated with a profile within the social networking system and post content items to the brand page. The social networking system then communicates the posted content item or a description of the posted content item to social networking system users connected to the brand page. Hence the brand page allows the entity to act as any other user of the social networking system and disseminate information to social networking system users.

However various types of entities have audiences composed of segments wherein each segment has a particular interest in the entity. In the social networking context different social networking system users may have different levels of interest in different content posted to the brand page. For example users connected to a brand page associated with a sporting goods supplier have varying degrees of interest in posts on the brand page about products for different sports. Conventionally users connected to a brand page are notified of content posted to the brand page without accounting for differing levels of interest in different content posted to the brand page.

To better customize interaction between a brand page that is associated with an entity and stored on a social networking system one or more attributes of content posted to the brand page are used in conjunction with characteristics in a social networking system user s user profile to select the content presented to the user when the brand page is accessed. For example content posted to the brand page is associated with targeting criteria defining at least one characteristic of a user of the social networking system. The targeting criteria are used to direct content to users of the social networking system for whom the content posted to the brand page is of particular interest. In one embodiment user profiles of social networking system users to whom the brand page is connected are accessed and used to determine whether a viewing user to whom the brand page is connected has the at least one characteristic defined by the targeting criteria. If the viewing user to whom the brand page is connected has the characteristic the content posted to the brand page corresponding to the at least one characteristic is presented to the viewing user.

As another example a user s affinity for different content posted to the brand page by an administrator so that the brand page includes content for which the user has a threshold affinity or has highest affinity when viewed by the user. A brand page administrator may associate keywords with content posted to the brand page describing the content. Based on a user s user profile and or connections to objects in the social networking system the user s affinities for keywords associated with different content is determined. Based on the affinities content is selected for inclusion on the brand page so that the content is more likely to be of interest to the user.

For example a page administrator for a brand page associated with a sporting goods supplier posts a story about a tennis clinic to the brand page and associates the story a keyword of tennis. A user profile or an action log of a social networking system user connected to the brand page may be accessed and used to determine whether the user has an interest for tennis. For example the user has an affinity for tennis if tennis is listed as an interest in the user profile or if other information associated with the user profile indicates the user has at least a threshold affinity for tennis If the user has an interest in tennis the content posted to the brand page associated with a keyword of tennis is presented to the user. However if the user does not have an interest in tennis content posted to the brand page associated with tennis is not presented to the user when the brand page is accessed. Hence associating keywords or other characteristics with content posted to a brand page allows the brand page to be customized for different users based on the users affinity for the keywords or characteristics.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Social networking system users may connect to the brand page to be updated when content items are posted to the brand page to receive updates about the entity or other suitable information. For example social networking system users may become friends with the brand page follow the brand page become a fan of the brand page or otherwise establish a connection with the brand page and or its associated entity in the social networking system . Hence the brand page allows the entity to provide information about itself or its products and or services to social networking system users to promote a relationship between the entity and social networking system users.

For purposes of illustration the brand page in is associated with a sporting goods supplier with the first content item describing tennis racquets stocked by the sporting goods supplier and the second content item describing running shoes sold by the sporting goods supplier. The first content item is associated with a first keyword and the second content item is associated with a second keyword . Keywords associated with a content item describe characteristics of the content item such as the subject matter of the content item a product associated with the content item an entity associated with the content item an author of the content item or other suitable characteristic associated with a content item. In one embodiment one or more of the keywords associated with a content item may be targeting criteria. Targeting criteria define one or more characteristics of a social networking system user to whom the entity desires to present a content item. For example targeting criteria identifies one or more interests included a user profile e.g. demographic information affiliations with groups of the social networking system or other characteristics as well as characteristics inferred from user actions taken on or off the social networking system. Additional examples of targeting criteria include a location an action an event a type of connection to a user or entity an entity a user a employer an educational institution an affinity or other suitable information.

In the first keyword identifies a characteristic of tennis for the first content item while the second keyword identifies a characteristic of running For the second content item . When a user accesses the brand page information associated with the user and the keywords associated with content items included on the brand page are used to select content items presented to the user by the brand page . If a keyword is targeting criteria information in a user profile is compared to the keyword to determine whether the user satisfies the targeting criteria. For example a user is determined to have the characteristic identified by the first keyword if a user profile includes tennis as an interest. While shows a single keyword associated with different content items in other embodiments any number of keywords may be associated with content items. As another example the affinities of a user for keywords are calculated and content items associated with keywords with which the user has the highest affinity or at least a threshold affinity are selected for inclusion on the brand page . In one embodiment the keywords are defined by the entity which also associates the keywords with one or more content items . As shown in different content items posted to the brand page may be associated with different keywords .

In conventional social networking systems users connected to a brand page are presented with each content item posted to a brand page . For example a conventional brand page sends the first content item and the second content item to a user. So a user connected to the brand page with no interest in running would be presented the running focused second content item as well as other content items from the brand page . Because different users connected to the brand page have different interests this may result in a user manually sifting through content items from the brand page to identify content items of interest to the user.

By associating keywords with content items an entity improves interaction between social networking system users and the brand page . Keywords allows the entity to associate content items with one or more characteristics of users to whom the entity desires a content item to be presented or to associated content items with characteristics with which a user may have an affinity. In one embodiment keywords identify information in a user profile of the social networking system identifying a characteristic of a user that the entity desires to receive a content item. For example keywords associated with a content item allows an entity to direct a content item to users having one or more characteristics specified by the keywords . Alternatively keywords identify topics or entities with which a user may have an affinity or preference. Hence the keywords allow an entity to better customize content from a brand page to social networking system users.

In the social networking system includes a content selector which receives the keywords from the brand page and retrieves data from the first user profile and from the second user profile to select content items for presentation to the first user and to the second user via the brand page . The content selector compares user profile information for users connected to the brand page to the keywords . In one embodiment the content selector also receives a content identifier from the brand page identifying the content item associated with keywords . The content selector then delivers a content item to users connected to the brand page that have user profile information matching one or more keywords or that have at least a threshold affinity for a keyword. In the example of the content selector delivers the first content item to the first user because the first user profile identifies tennis as an interest of the first user matching the first keyword . Similarly the content selector delivers the second content item to the second user as the second user profile identifies running as a interest of the second user which matches the second keyword .

The example of also illustrates customization of content displayed to the first user and to the second user . For purposes of illustration shows a first news feed delivered to the first user and a second news feed delivered to the second user . However in various embodiments content may be delivered to the first user and to the second user in a variety of ways such as via messages to the users modification of the brand page appearance when accessed by the users or any other suitable distribution mechanism.

In the first user has an interest in tennis which matches the first keyword . Hence the first content item is included in the first news feed in addition to additional stories which may describe actions taken by other social networking users connected to the first user . As shown in the first news feed does not include the second content item because the first user does not have an interest in running as specified by the second keyword . In other embodiments the first news feed may also include the second content item in a less prominent location than the first content item . For example the first content item is positioned at the top of the first news feed or is otherwise visually distinguished from the second content item .

Similarly the second news feed in includes the second content item because the second user has an interest in running as specified by the second keyword . The second news feed also includes additional stories describing actions of other users connected to the second user . In various embodiments the second news feed may visually distinguish the second content item from the additional stories .

Hence shows use of keywords to customize the content items from a brand page appearing in news feeds for different users. In other embodiments the targeting criteria allow additional types of customization such as customizing the appearance of the brand page when accessed by different users or customizing messages about content sent from the brand page to different users .

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec . The third party website may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with .

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing people to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

Content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos and audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a profile page for a user is viewed when a brand page is viewed or when other content is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. These content items may be presented to the user in a variety of communication channels. Examples of communication channels include the brand page a news feed including content items from users or entities e mails text messaging notifications sent by the social networking system a push notification channel sending content items to devices associated with a user or other suitable communication channels.

Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social networking system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system invitations events items in a user s wish list groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity deals coupons and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system.

The content store also includes one or more brand pages associated with user profiles of entities. A brand page comprises content associated with the entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a brand page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. The content item store may also store one or more keywords associated with each content item in the content store . The keywords may be targeting criteria identifying one or more characteristics of a user to whom a content item is to be delivered. Alternatively the keywords may identify topics or characteristics associated with content allowing determination of user s affinity for one or more of the keywords to represent the likelihood of the user having an interest in the content.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger identifies interaction between a social networking system user and a brand page within the social networking system which communicates targeting criteria associated with content on the brand page to the content selector to customize content presented via a brand page. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external website that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

A news feed manager selectively provides content to users of a social networking system and records the consumption of content by users. In one embodiment the news feed manager generates stories for a user describing actions taken by other users of the social networking system to whom the user is connected. In one example the newsfeed generated by the news feed manager for a user includes comments made by other users to whom the user is connected. In another example the newsfeed generated includes content posted to the social network system by other users of the social networking system to whom the user is connected or other actions taken by other users to whom the user is connected. New news feed stories generated for a user by the news feed manager may be ranked and stored by the social networking system . The news feed manager may communicate with client devices through the network to provide content to users of the social networking system .

In one embodiment a news feed manager may provide content through a social plug in such as an iframe to a third party website to provide content posted on the social networking system about an entity associated with the third party website . As an example a business entity creating a brand page on the social networking system may desire to publish content items posted on the brand page s news feed in the social networking system to a third party website via a social plug in installed on the third party website . Hence content items posted to a brand page may be communicated to users connected to the brand page using a variety of techniques. The content items may be included in a news feed presented to the user within a domain of the social networking system or within a different domain such as a domain associated with the third party website . In addition the news feed manager may distribute content items associated with a brand page to users via a push channel communicating the content items to an application operating on one or more client devices .

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system.

The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores or affinities may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Examples of actions used to calculate a user s affinity for another user brand page or keyword include the user commenting on a photo associated with a keyword or another user the user expressing a preference for content on a brand page or on a user profile the user posting content to a brand page or to a user profile the frequency of interaction between the user and the brand page or with content associated with a keyword the user sharing content associated with a keyword or another user the user subscribing to content associated with a user or with a keyword or any other suitable action. Calculation of affinity scores is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety describes various systems for predicting a user s affinity for content in a social networking system. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party websites . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as iOS ANDROID webOS or RIM.

The content selector identifies content items from the content store for presentation to social networking system users based on keywords associated with content items and information stored in user profiles. In one embodiment the content selector selects content posted to a brand page that is delivered to a user by determining whether the user has a characteristic specified by a keyword. For example the content selector compares an interest identified by a user profile with targeting criteria associated with the content. Alternatively the content selector selects content posted to a brand page for presentation to the user based on the user s affinity for keywords associated with the content.

In one embodiment the content selector communicates with the content store the user profile store and or the action log to identify content from a brand page for delivery to a social networking system user responsive to the user having information in a user profile matching or otherwise associated with a keyword associated with the content. As an example the content selector identifies one or more interests of a user connected to a brand page from a user profile associated with the user. In some embodiments the content selector may identify a user s interests based on interactions between the user and the brand page retrieved from the action log this allows the content selector to used brand page specific interactions to ascertain a user s interest. The content selector may communicate with the user profile store to modify the user s profile to include an interest identified by the content selector from user interaction with the brand page. For example interactions between the user and content on the brand page associated with a keyword or including a keyword may cause the content selector to determine that the user has an interest in the keyword and update the user profile store accordingly.

Upon determining the user s interests the content selector determines whether one or more of the interests match one or more keywords associated with content items posted to the brand page. Content items associated with keywords such as targeting criteria which match the user s interests are then delivered to the user by the content selector . Hence the content selector uses data from the user profile stores and or from the action log to determine whether a user connected to a brand page has at least one characteristic specified by keywords associated with content posted to the brand page. For example content associated with a keyword specifying an action a location an event an interest a connection or any other suitable characteristic that is matched by a characteristic of a user is selected for presentation to the user. This allows customization of content delivered from the brand page to connected users to users based on characteristics of the users. Examples of content delivered to the user include promotional information provided by the entity describing products and services product reviews images or posts from other users describing interaction with the entity or other social objects describing the entity and or products or services offered by the entity.

In other embodiments the content selector communicates with the edge store to determine a user s affinities for keywords associated with content posted to the brand page. The content selector identifies content items posted to the brand page associated with keywords for which the user has the highest affinities or for which the user has at least a threshold affinity. To personalize the user s interaction with the brand page the content items content posted to the brand page presented to the user content items selected based on the user s affinities are presented to the user through the brand page news feed stories e mails text messages or using any other suitable communication channel. Presenting content items posted to the brand page based on the user s affinities for the brand page increases the likelihood that the user will be interested in viewing the presented content items increasing the likelihood of additional user interactions with the brand page.

The display generator determines when a user of the social networking system has requested that information be displayed and in cooperation with the content selector displays content customized to the user requesting the content. For example a user may navigate to a brand page within the social networking system and the display generator modifies appearance of the brand page based on data from the content selector . In one embodiment the display generator retrieves content identified by the content selector from the content store and displays the retrieved content to provide the user with a page experience customized based on the user s profile or interests. For example content items displayed when a user views the brand page are modified so that content items associated with keywords that the user matches or associated with keywords in which the user has a threshold affinity are more prominently displayed. The display generator may provide a webpage or some other suitable display format to present content to the user via a client device . The display generator may notify the content item selector when the display has been generated in response to a request from the user.

To access the brand page or to access content associated with the brand page a social networking system user transmits a request to access the brand page from a client device to the web server of the social networking system . The request includes an identifier of the social networking system user which the web server uses to request the user profile associated with the social networking system user from the user profile store . After being identified the user profile is communicated from the user profile store to the content selector . Additional information associated with the user such as actions from the action log and or edges from the edge store may be communicated to the content selector .

Based on the keywords associated with the content posted to the brand page and information from the user profile the content selector selects content posted to the brand page for presentation to the user. The keywords may identify criteria such as interests actions locations connections connection types events groups or other information and the content selector compares information from the user profile or otherwise associated with the user to the keywords. Content posted to the brand page and associated with one or more keywords that match information in the user profile is selected for presentation to the user.

Alternatively the keywords identify characteristics of the content allowing an entity providing the content to associate topics products events brands people entities or other information with the content. The content selector may retrieve from the edge store the user s affinities for one or more keywords associated with content posted to the brand page and uses the affinities to select content posted to the brand page for presentation to the user. The user s affinity for a keyword provides an indication of the user s likelihood of being interested in content associated with the keyword accordingly selecting content based on the user s affinities allows the content selector to increase the likelihood of the user having an interest in the selected content. In one embodiment the content selector selects content associated with keywords with which the user has at least a threshold affinity. Alternatively the content selector selects content associated with keywords with which the user has the highest affinities relative to affinities for other keywords.

The content selector identifies the selected content posted to the content store . For example the content selector retrieves content corresponding to selected content identifiers from the content store . The selected content posted to the brand page is communicated from the content store to the web server which presents the selected content to the client device associated with the users. Alternatively the content selector communicates content identifiers associated with the selected content posted to the brand page to the web server which retrieves content corresponding to the content identifiers from the content store . The retrieved content is then presented to the client device .

The selected content posted to the brand page may be presented to the client device in a variety of ways. For example the selected content may be displayed to a user by customizing the content included on a representation of the brand page shown to the user accessing the brand page. The representation of the brand page may include the selected content and not other content associated with the brand page or the representation of the brand page may visually distinguish the selected content from other content associated with the brand page. This personalizes the content presented to the user via the brand page increasing the likelihood that the user interacts with the brand page. Alternatively one or more stories describing the selected content are sent to the user in a news feed. In another example a message including selected content or describing selected content item is sent to a client device associated with the user. The message may be transmitted using any suitable communication channel such as via a text message via an e mail via a social plug in included on a web page in a domain external to the social networking system via a push communication channel or any other suitable communication technique.

The social networking system receives a request to access the brand page from a user. For example a user requests to view the brand page from a client device . The request includes an identifier of the social networking system user is used to identify a user profile associated with the user that is maintained by the social networking system . After being identified the user profile is communicated from the user profile store to the content selector . Additional information associated with the user such as actions from the action log and or edges from the edge store may be communicated to the content selector .

Based on the keywords associated with the content posted to the brand page and information from the user profile content posted to the brand page is selected for presentation to the user. As described above keywords may identify criteria such as interests actions locations connections connection types events groups or other information. Accordingly content associated with keywords matching information in the user profile or other information associated with the user is selected for presentation to the user. Alternatively keywords may identify characteristics of the content allowing an entity providing the content to associate topics products events brands people entities or other information with the content. Hence the user s affinity for various keywords is determined as further described above and content is selected based on the user s affinity for one or more keywords associated with the content. For example content associated with keywords with which the user has at least a threshold affinity is selected . Alternatively content associated with keywords with which the user has the highest affinities relative to affinities for other keywords is selected . The selected content is presented to the user as described above in conjunction with .

Although different social networking system users likely have varying degrees of interest in the various sports described by the content items a conventionally displayed brand page shows each content item to each viewing user. This may require the user to sort through several content items to find interesting content.

In some embodiments a user profile may include information describing how a brand page s display is customized. For example a user profile includes preference information indicating whether to customize the brand page as shown in or to customize the band page in another suitable manner. Thus customizing appearance of a brand page allows the brand page to make content more accessible to different users based on user characteristics. This customized presentation of content may increase user interaction with the brand page promoting a stronger relationship between a user and the entity associated with the brand page.

As described above an owner or administrator of a brand page can post a variety of content items such as posted text a picture or picture album a video a deal a coupon an event or invitation thereto etc. to the social networking system. The social networking system then determines whether users of the social networking system who have established a connection to the brand page may be presented with certain ones of these posted content items. For example the page owner or administrator may associated a posted content item with a targeting criteria which is matched against a user s profile to determine whether the user may be presented with the content item. Alternatively the system may predict an affinity that the user will have for a particular posted content item and then use that affinity to determine whether the user may be presented with the content item. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed Dec. 23 2010 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety describes various systems for predicting a user s affinity for content in a social networking system. By selectively providing users who have established a connection with a brand page with content items posted in connection with the brand page the social networking system can personalize its users experiences such that their associations with a brand page is more relevant to each user.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

