---

title: Method and apparatus for determining an effect of characteristics of a message on interaction with the message
abstract: Method and apparatus are provided for determining an effect of characteristics of a first message on interaction with the first message over an electronically meditated forum. The first message may be posted to the electronically mediated forum to provide a first posted message. The first posted message includes characteristics. The electronically mediated forum may be monitored to detect at least one instance of interaction with the first posted message. Interaction data may be extracted. Interaction data may include data describing at least one interaction the first posted message. The interaction data may be analyzed to determine the effect of the characteristics of the first posted message on the interaction(s) with the first posted message to provide determined effect data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189799&OS=09189799&RS=09189799
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09189799
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20120418
---
The instant disclosure relates generally to the analysis of audience interaction with a message posted to an electronically mediated forum and more specifically to techniques for determining the effect of characteristics of a message on interaction with the message over an electronically mediated forum.

Electronically mediated forums are digital forums where messages may be posted viewed and engaged with. For example well known electronically mediated forums include social network websites e.g. Facebook MySpace and Twitter blogs conventional websites etc. The unifying characteristic shared by each of these different types of forums is that they all allow users to post messages that other users can interact with. As used herein a message may include textual content and in some instances may be associated with media content e.g. a sound clip an image a video etc. . For example a message posted on Facebook may include i.e. be associated with an image such as a photograph of the poster of the image.

Many conventional electronically mediated forums allow users to post messages on specific pages dedicated to those users e.g. a user s individual Facebook MySpace or Twitter page . Other users of the forum may then view the posted message and interact with it. Users may interact with a posted message in a variety of ways. For example merely viewing a posted message e.g. by navigating to the page containing the posted message may constitute interaction with that message. However users can interact with a posted message in more intimate ways as well.

For example users can interact with a posted message by posting a comment in response to the originally posted message indicating that they like the originally posted message denoting themselves as a fan of the entity responsible for the posted message sharing the posted message and or address of the page containing the posted message with other users re tweeting a posted message etc. Additionally where the originally posted message includes for example a link to another webpage where a user can purchase a product service described in the posted message a user may interact with the posted message by clicking on the link.

Increasingly entities are recognizing electronically mediated forums as valuable channels for both advertising and market research. For example many companies now have their own Facebook page. Companies often use their Facebook pages to post messages announcing the release of new products and services. These message are essentially micro campaigns meant to engage a target audience in various ways and in some cases incite them to action e.g. motivate the target audience to purchase the product and or services described in the posted message recommend such products services to others by forwarding information etc. . Other entities besides corporations have been utilizing electronically mediated forums in similar ways. For example many rock bands now have their own electronically mediated forum page wherein they can post messages in order to engage with their fans announce concert dates and album release dates etc.

Despite the heightened awareness regarding the value of electronically mediated forums as a means of reaching a target audience little has been done in the way of determining how message characteristics i.e. characteristics of a posted message effect audience interaction with that message. That is to say conventional tools for analyzing audience interaction with a message posted to an electronically mediated forum have proven themselves incapable of determining what about a given message i.e. what characteristics of a message prompts certain interactions with the message. Accordingly it is desirable to provide techniques for determining the effect of characteristics of a message on interaction with the message over an electronically mediated forum.

The instant disclosure describes methods and apparatuses for determining an effect of characteristics of a message on interaction with the message over an electronically mediated forum. To this end in one example a method for determining an effect of characteristics of a first message on interaction with the first message over an electronically mediated forum is provided. The method includes posting by a processing device the first message to the electronically mediated forum to provide a first posted message. The first posted message includes characteristics. The processing device may further monitor the electronically meditated forum to detect at least one instance of interaction with the first posted message. Continuing the processing device may extract interaction data which may include data describing the at least one interaction with the first posted message. Finally the method includes analyzing by the processing device the interaction data to determine the effect of the characteristics of the first posted message on the at least on interaction with the first posted message to provide determined effect data.

In one example the method also includes modifying by the processing device the first posted message by modifying at least one characteristic of the first posted message. The first posted message could be modified for example based on the determined effect data. In another example the method further includes generating by the processing device a second message having second characteristics i.e. at least one characteristic that is different from any of the characteristics of the first posted message . In this example the second message may be based on the determined effect data. This example may also include the step of posting by the processing device the second message to the electronically mediated forum i.e. the same electronically mediated forum that the first message was posted to or a different electronically mediated forum to provide a second posted message.

In one embodiment of the instant disclosure the characteristics i.e. the characteristics of either the first or second posted messages may include at least one of attributes tactics and or themes. In one example the attributes include at least one of the following i time attributes describing when the posted message was posted to the electronically mediated forum ii where a media file is associated with the posted message type attributes describing which type of media is associated with the posted message and or iii electronically mediated forum attributes describing which electronically mediated forum of a plurality of electronically mediated forums the posted message was posted to.

In another example the tactics include at least one of the following i information describing whether the posted message was phrased as a question ii information describing whether the posted message was posted to the electronically mediated forum prior to a release of a product or service associated with the posted message iii information describing whether the posted message requested an opinion as a form of interaction with the posted message and or iv information describing whether the posted message requested a reaction as a form of interaction with the posted message.

In still another example themes include information describing a generic category of the posted message. For example a theme might indicate that a given posted message relates to generic categories such as art music sports news finance business law etc. Of course the foregoing list is not exhaustive and it is recognized that any number of generic categories may be described by themes in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure.

Referring now to one example of a computing device for determining an effect of characteristics of a message on interaction with the message over an electronically mediated forum is illustrated. The device includes a processor coupled to a storage component . The storage component in turn includes stored executable instructions and data . In an embodiment the processor may comprise one or more of a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor co processor or the like or combinations thereof capable of executing the stored instructions and operating upon the stored data . Likewise the storage component may comprise one or more devices such as volatile or nonvolatile memory including but not limited to random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM . Further still the storage component may be embodied in a variety of forms such as a hard drive optical disc drive floppy disc drive etc. Processor and storage arrangements of the types illustrated in are well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. In one embodiment the processing techniques described herein are implemented as a combination of executable instructions and data within the storage component .

As shown the device may include one or more user input devices a display a peripheral interface other output devices and a network interface in communication with the processor . The user input device may comprise any mechanism for providing user input to the processor . For example the user input device may comprise a keyboard a mouse a touch screen microphone and suitable voice recognition application or any other means whereby a user of the device may provide input data to the processor . The display may comprise any conventional display mechanism such as a cathode ray tube CRT flat panel display or any other display mechanism known to those having ordinary skill in the art. In an embodiment the display in conjunction with suitable stored instructions may be used to implement a graphical user interface. Implementation of a graphical user interface in this manner is well known to those having ordinary skill in the art.

The peripheral interface may include the hardware firmware and or software necessary for communication with various peripheral devices such as media drives e.g. magnetic disk or optical disk drives other processing devices or any other input source used in connection with the instant techniques. Likewise the other output device s may optionally comprise similar media drive mechanisms other processing devices or other output destinations capable of providing information to a user of the device such as speakers LEDs tactile outputs etc. Finally the network interface may comprise hardware firmware and or software that allows the processor to communicate with other devices via wired or wireless networks whether local or wide area private or public as known in the art. For example such networks may include the World Wide Web or Internet or private enterprise networks as known in the art.

While the device has been described as one form for implementing the techniques described herein those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other functionally equivalent techniques may be employed. For example as known in the art some or all of the functionality implemented via executable instructions may also be implemented using firmware and or hardware devices such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays state machines etc. Furthermore other implementations of the device may include a greater or lesser number of components than those illustrated. Once again those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the wide number of variations that may be used is this manner. Further still although a single computing device is illustrated in it is understood that a combination of such computing devices may be configured to operate in conjunction for example using known networking techniques to implement the teachings of the instant disclosure.

The EMF interaction engine may communicate with the electronically mediated forum over any suitable public or private communication network not shown such as the Internet or proprietary networks such as enterprise local area or wide area networks respectively. In line with the teachings of the present disclosure the electronically mediated forum may be implemented via one or more servers as discussed in further detail with reference to below. The server s may make the electronically mediated forum accessible over any of the communication networks discussed above. As noted above and by way of example and not limitation an electronically mediated forum could include social network websites e.g. Facebook MySpace Twitter Linkedin blogs conventional websites etc.

In operation the EMF interaction engine is operative to post a first message to the electronically mediated forum to provide a first posted message . In one example the EMF interaction engine is operative to post the first message to the electronically mediated forum in response to user input e.g. entered via user input . In another example the EMF interaction engine is operative to automatically post the first message to the electronically mediated forum based upon predefined rules e.g. rules stored as data in storage . Techniques for posting a message to an electronically mediated forum are well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. Upon posting the first message to the electronically mediated forum the EMF interaction engine may also generate and store e.g. in storage where the EMF interaction engine is implemented as a computing device such as computing device posted message identification data not shown . The posted message identification data includes all of the data necessary for the EMF interaction engine to locate a posted message e.g. the first posted message and or a second posted message on the electronically mediated forum . For example the posted message identification data may include the URL address of the specific page within the electronically mediated forum that contains the posted message. In another example the electronically mediated forum may return a posting ID not shown that the EMF interaction engine may use to track a posted message. However other suitable identification information that may be used to locate a posted message e.g. the time of day that the message under consideration was posted may also be included as part of the posted message identification data or posting ID.

The first posted message includes characteristics . Characteristics describe features of a message e.g. the first posted message the modified first posted message and or the second posted message such as the content of the message the purpose of the message the meaning of the message information regarding the date and time that the message was posted etc. Broadly speaking characteristics may include attribute s tactic s and or theme s relating to a message. Attribute s describe one or more technical features of a message such as the first posted message . By way of non limiting example attribute s may include i time attributes describing when a message was posted to the electronically mediated forum e.g. the date and time that a message was posted ii type attributes describing which type of media if any is associated with a posted message e.g. whether a video image or sound clip was included as part of a posted message and or iii electronically mediated forum attributes describing which electronically mediated forum of a plurality of electronically mediated forums a given message was posted to e.g. information describing whether the message under consideration was posted to Facebook Twitter MySpace Linkedin Amazon.com a particular blog etc. .

Tactic s describe one or more strategic features of a message such as the first posted message . By way of non limiting example tactic s may include i information describing whether a posted message was phrased as a question i.e. information describing whether the text of a message was an inquiry such as How many times have you seen this movie ii information describing whether a posted message was posted to an electronically mediated forum prior to the release of a product or service associated with the posted message i.e. information describing whether the message was posted prior to the release of a product service associated with the message such as whether the message was posted before the release date of a movie that the message was concerned with iii information describing whether a posted message requested an opinion as a form of interaction with the posted message e.g. information describing whether the audience for the message was prompted to opine on the subject matter of the message such as Do you like this movie trailer and or iv information describing whether a posted message requested a reaction as a form of interaction with the posted message e.g. whether the posted message requested the audience to take an affirmative action in response to the message such as If you like this movie trailer please send a link to this page to a friend .

Theme s describe one or more general topics that a message is concerned with. That is to say theme s include information describing a generic category of a posted message. By way of non limiting example a given message could include theme s indicating that the message concerned a generic category such as art music sports news finance business law etc. For instance a given message might include text stating What is your favorite instrument In this case the theme of the message could be identified as music. Of course the theme could also be identified as instruments. Thus themes can assume any suitable level of detail as desired but broadly refer to a general topic that a message is concerned with.

Returning to the operation of system shown in the EMF interaction engine is further operative to monitor the electronically mediated forum to detect at least one instance of interaction with a posted message such as the first posted message . Generally the manner in which interactions are detected is at least partially dependent upon the type of interaction. In one example the EMF interaction engine may be implemented at least in part as a computer program such as a bot e.g. a web crawler capable of scanning the content of the page in the electronically mediated forum containing the posted message under consideration e.g. the first posted message in order to detect one or more instances of interaction such as responsive comments posted by others with the posted message. In another example the electronically mediated forum may provide an application programming interface API allowing the EMF interaction engine to directly query the electronically mediated forum in order to detect one or more instances of interaction with a posted message where such interactions take the form of selection of a like user input mechanism as known in the art. Alternatively the EMF interaction engine may be implemented using any other suitable data monitoring techniques known in the art.

There are a variety of ways in which to interact with a posted message. For example the EMF interaction engine may detect an instance of interaction when the posted message is clicked e.g. a viewer clicks on the posted message with their mouse cursor . In another example an instance of interaction may be detected when a comment is posted in response to a posted message. In other examples an instance of interaction may be detected when a viewer of the posted message indicates that they like the posted message e.g. by pressing a like button on Facebook when a viewer of the posted message denotes themselves as a fan of the posted message or the entity responsible for posting the posted message when a viewer of the posted message shares the posted message and or address of the page containing the posted message with someone else e.g. another user of the electronically mediated forum etc. These different types of interactions with a posted message may be detected by the EMF interaction engine using any suitable detection technique such as the detection techniques discussed above e.g. via a bot or API .

Additionally where the posted message e.g. the first posted message includes for example a link to another webpage where a user can purchase a product service described in the posted message a viewer may interact with the posted message by clicking on the link. In one example this type of viewer interaction may be detected by instrumenting the link in the posted message along with the landing page i.e. the webpage that the link directs a viewer to . This type of instrumentation may be accomplished using suitable link landing page instrumentation techniques known in the art. Any of the foregoing non limiting examples constitute ways in which a viewer can interact with a posted message.

The EMF interaction engine is further operative to extract interaction data describing each instance of interaction with a posted message e.g. the first posted message . For example when a viewer comments on a posted message the page containing the posted message may be updated to include the text image video audio etc. forming the content of the comment the time of day that the comment was posted the identity of the commenter an image e.g. an avatar associated with the commenter etc. This type of information is referred to herein as interaction data i.e. data characterizing an interaction with a posted message . Interaction data may take a variety of forms. For example interaction data is not limited to information that is readily available on the page of the electronically mediated forum containing the posted message e.g. the content of each comment the total number of comments the total number of likes the total number of shares etc. but may also include deep seated information describing for example demographic information about the viewer s of the posted message to the extent that such information is available.

For example in many instances the EMF interaction engine may extract interaction data comprising data describing the identity of the viewer s . This is especially true where a viewer has a public profile e.g. on Facebook or has signed up for a service such as Facebook Connect. As known in the art when a viewer has a public profile any other user of the electronically mediated forum may view that user s profile to glean information about the user. Similarly Facebook Connect is a platform that allows users to connect their Facebook identity friends and privacy information with third party platforms. That is when a user utilizes a platform such as Facebook Connect or any other suitable information sharing platform known in the art authorized third parties may gain access to detailed information about that user. In these types of instances the EMF interaction engine may extract interaction data such as data indicating the name age gender location education income profession etc. for any viewer who has viewed the posted message. The foregoing types of interaction data are exemplary in nature and are not intended to limit any additional types of data that may be useful in furthering the described functionality of the EMF engine .

The EMF interaction engine is operative to analyze the interaction data in order to determine the effect of the characteristics of a posted message e.g. the first posted message on any interactions with the posted message in order to provide determined effect data . As used herein the determined effect data may include any information that describes a relationship between characteristics of a message and audience interaction with that message. For example the determined effect data may include data indicating that use of a video clip in a message leads to an increase in the number of users who like the message. Nevertheless the EMF interaction engine is operative to analyze the interaction data in a variety of ways. In one example the EMF engine is operative to analyze the interaction data by aggregating for example the total number of views comments likes shares etc. for a given posted message e.g. where that information is not directly available from the interaction data . In another example the EMF engine is operative to analyze the interaction data by assessing for example the overall sentiment concerning a posted message the relevance of comments posted in response to a posted message the occurrence of certain keywords or topics in comments posted in response to a posted message and or any tracked behavior of a user e.g. assessing whether users click on a hyperlink pointing to a particular website where a product can be purchased . In still another example the EMF interaction engine is operative to analyze the interaction data by generalizing e.g. averaging demographic information about the viewers of the posted message. For example the EMF interaction engine may analyze the interaction data by determining that fifty percent of the viewers were female that the average age for a viewer was twenty five years old that the average viewer had an undergraduate college education that the average income of a viewer was 35 000 year that sixty percent of the viewers were located in the western time zone etc.

Furthermore as part of the analysis process the EMF interaction engine may correlate characteristics of the posted message under consideration with the interaction data to ascertain how particular characteristics e.g. particular attribute s tactic s and or theme s influence viewer s interaction with the posted message. For example the EMF engine may utilize data correlation techniques known in the art in order to draw conclusions about how certain characteristics of a given posted message effect viewer s interaction with that message. For instance the EMF interaction engine may determine that messages that include video clips generate more likes than messages that do not include video clips or alternatively messages that include images for example but not video clips . In this manner the EMF interaction engine may illuminate how a message s composition i.e. characteristics influence viewers interaction with the message. In one example the EMF interaction engine is operative to detect patterns regarding message composition using pattern recognition techniques known in the art. Furthermore the EMF interaction engine may be used to test how message characteristics effect interaction with messages e.g. by posting messages having varying attributes tactics and or themes . In one example machine learning techniques known in the art may be employed to teach the EMF interaction engine using historical data so as to optimize the posting of a new message in order to achieve a desired end. Following the generation of the determined effect data in some embodiments the determined effect data may be translated to display data using techniques known in the art and presented on a display such as display . The display may comprise any of the display types referenced above with regard to display or any other suitable types of displays known in the art.

In one embodiment after the EMF interaction engine has posted the first message to the electronically mediated forum the EMF interaction engine is operative to modify the first posted message by modifying at least one characteristic of the first posted message . As used herein modifying the first posted message may include i changing at least one characteristic of the first posted message e.g. changing the theme of the first posted message without actually posting a new message to provide the modified first posted message or ii posting a new message i.e. a message that shares at least one characteristic with the first posted message to provide the modified first posted message . In one example the modification to the first posted message is based on the determined effect data .

In addition to or alternatively to modifying the first posted message the EMF interaction engine may also generate a second message having second characteristics i.e. at least one characteristic that is different from the characteristics of the first posted message and post the second message to the electronically mediated forum or a different electronically mediated forum to provide a second posted message . The second posted message may be based on the determined effect data . For example after analysis of the interaction data describing viewers interaction with the first posted message it may become apparent that the characteristics of the first posted message are not stimulating a desired audience interaction.

Accordingly the EMF interaction engine may generate a second message having second i.e. different characteristics based on the determined effect data in order to stimulate a desired audience interaction. For example analysis of the interaction data related to the first posted message may indicate that very few audience members have liked the first posted message where maximizing the number of audience likes is the goal of the posted message . As such goal information describing the desired outcome of a particular message may be input into the EMF interaction engine so that the EMF interaction engine may analyze the goal and alter the characteristics of a posted message or post a new message with new characteristics based on the goal information. Accordingly the EMF interaction engine may generate and post a second message that has different characteristics than the first posted message in order to increase the number of audience likes. For example the EMF interaction engine may generate a second message that includes a video clip assuming the first posted message did not include a video clip if the determined effect data and or any other historical data correlating posted message characteristics with audience interactions indicates that associating a posted message with a video clip typically yields a high number of audience likes. 

In accordance with the above illustrates a system that may be used to determine the effect of message characteristics on audience interaction with the message e.g. the first posted message the modified first posted message and or the second posted message over an electronically mediated forum . The electronically mediated forum shown in may be implemented via one or more electronically mediated forum servers shown in . The servers may make the electronically mediated forum or forums where there are a plurality of electronically meditated forums being considered accessible over any suitable public or private communication network such as the Internet or more specifically the World Wide Web or proprietary networks such as enterprise local area or wide area networks respectively. Given such access a plurality of audience members i.e. people or entities that interact with messages may access the forum server s via for example suitable computer based devices using techniques known in the art.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a method for determining an effect of characteristics of a first message on interaction with the first message over an electronically mediated forum in accordance with the present disclosure is provided. While the systems are forms for implementing the processing described herein including that illustrated in those having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other functionally equivalent techniques may be employed. Furthermore as known in the art some or all of the functionalities implemented via executable instructions may also be implemented using firmware and or hardware devices such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays state machines etc. Once again those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the wide number of variations that may be used is this manner.

Beginning at block a first message is posted to an electronically mediated forum to provide a first posted message. The first posted message includes characteristics. At block the electronically mediated forum is monitored to detect at least one instance of interaction with the first posted message. At block interaction data is extracted from the electronically mediated forum. The interaction data may include data describing at least one interaction with the first posted message over the electronically mediated forum. At block the interaction data is analyzed to determine the effect of the characteristics of the first posted message on the at least one interaction with the first posted message to provide determined effect data. Finally at optional block the first posted message is modified by modifying at least one characteristic of the first posted message.

While particular embodiments have been shown and described those skilled in the art will appreciate that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the instant teachings. It is therefore contemplated that any and all modifications variations or equivalents of the above described teachings fall within the scope of the basic underlying principles disclosed above and claimed herein.

