---

title: Apparatus for carrying and storing footwear
abstract: An apparatus for carrying and storing footwear has a flexible, substantially “T” shaped member having a first section and a second section that is transverse to the first section. The second section extends in opposite directions to first and second distal ends. The “T” shaped member has front and rear sides, wherein fastening devices are attached to the front side and mating fastening devices are attached to the rear side. Each fastening device on the front side is configured to be removably attached to a corresponding mating fastener on the rear side. Fastening devices on the front side are located on the first section adjacent the second section and on the second section adjacent the first distal end. Mating fastening devices on the rear side are located on the first section adjacent the distal end of the first section and on the second section adjacent the second distal end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08662318&OS=08662318&RS=08662318
owner: 
number: 08662318
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121023
---
Devices for carrying and storing footwear and ice skates are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 483 470 5 582 337 5 642 842 5 690 261 and in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. US2009 0071917 and US2010 0252592.

The present invention is directed to an apparatus for carrying and storing footwear. In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a flexible substantially T shaped member comprising a first section having a longitudinally extending axis and which extends to a distal end and a second section that is transverse to the first section. The flexible substantially T shaped member has a front side and a rear side. The second section comprises a first portion that is orthogonal to the longitudinally extending axis and extends to a first distal end in a first direction. The second section also has a second portion that is orthogonal to the longitudinally extending axis and extends to a second distal end in a second direction that is opposite to the first direction. The apparatus further comprises a plurality of fastening devices on the front side of the substantially T shaped member wherein at least one fastening device is located on the first section adjacent to the second section and at least one fastening device is on the first portion of the second section adjacent the first distal end. The apparatus further comprises a plurality of mating fastening devices on the rear side of the substantially T shaped member wherein each of the fastening devices on the front side are configured to be removably connected to a corresponding mating fastener on the rear side. At least one of the mating fastening devices is on the first section adjacent the distal end of the first section. At least one mating fastening device is on the second portion of the second section adjacent the second distal end. The first and second portions of the second section each have a length that is sufficient to allow the first and second portions to be inserted through an object and then attached together with the fastening device on the first portion of the second section and the mating fastening device on the second portion of the second section. In a preferred embodiment the apparatus includes means for removably attaching a decorative item to the substantially T shaped member.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to an apparatus for carrying and storing footwear comprising a flexible substantially T shaped member comprising a first section that has a longitudinally extending axis and which extends to a distal end and a second section that is transverse to the first section. The second section comprises a first portion that extends in a first direction to a first distal end and a second portion that extends in an opposite second direction to a second distal end. The flexible substantially T shaped member has a front side and a rear side. A plurality of fastening devices are on the front side of the substantially T shaped member wherein at least one fastening device is located on the first section adjacent to the second section and at least one fastening device is on the first portion of the second section adjacent the first distal end of the first portion. The apparatus further comprises a plurality of mating fastening devices on the rear side of the substantially T shaped member. Each of the fastening devices on the front side are configured to be removably attached to a corresponding mating fastener on the rear side. At least one of the mating fastening devices is on the first section adjacent the distal end of the first section and at least one mating fastening device is on the second portion of the second section adjacent the second distal end of the second portion. The first and second portions of the second section each have a length that is sufficient to allow the first portion and the second portion to be inserted through an object and then attached together with the fastening device on the first portion and the mating fastening device on the second portion so as to form a first closed loop. The first section forms a second closed loop when the mating fastening device on the rear side of the first section is connected to the fastening device on the front side of the first section.

Referring to there is shown apparatus for carrying and storing footwear and other objects in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Apparatus comprises flexible substantially T shaped member . Member comprises first section which has longitudinally extending axis . First section extends to distal end . Member further comprises second section that is transverse to first section . Flexible substantially T shaped member has front side and rear side .

Referring to second section comprises first portion that is orthogonal to longitudinally extending axis and extends in direction to first distal end . Second section also has a second portion that is orthogonal to longitudinally extending axis and extends in opposite direction to second distal end .

Apparatus further comprises a plurality of fastening devices on front side of substantially T shaped member . At least one fastening device is located on first section adjacent to second section and at least one fastening device is on first portion and adjacent to first distal end . Apparatus further comprises a plurality of mating fastening devices on rear side of substantially T shaped member . Each fastening device on front side is configured to be removably connected to a corresponding mating fastening device on rear side . At least one mating fastening device is on first section adjacent to distal end . At least one mating fastening device is on second portion and adjacent to second distal end . In order to configure apparatus in a completely fastened state a user will connect mating fastening device B to fastening device B and will connect mating fastening device A to fastening device A. shows apparatus in a completely fastened state. If a user desires to configure apparatus in only a partially fastened state then the user would only connect mating fastening device B to fastening device B and would not connect mating fastening device A to fastening device A so as to leave section hanging downward see .

In a preferred embodiment substantially T shaped member is fabricated from materials chosen from the group comprising silicone silicone rubber leather synthetic leather plastic resin denim fabric and expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ePTFE which is marketed under the federally registered trademark GORE TEX . Other suitable fabrics may be used as well.

In a preferred embodiment the material from which substantially T shaped member is fabricated is a pliable material.

In a preferred embodiment the substantially T shaped member is fabricated from eco friendly materials.

In a preferred embodiment the material from which substantially T shaped member is fabricated is waterproof.

Each of the fastening devices and mating fastening devices may be configured as any suitable commercially available fastening device such as metal snaps plastic snaps hooks slide clasps interlocking clasps and magnets. If magnets are used then each fastening device is configured as a magnet and each mating fastening device is configured as a piece of magnetic material such as iron or other suitable magnetic material. Each of the fastening devices and mating fastening devices may also be configured as fabric hook and loop fasteners which are marketed under the trademark VELCRO .

In one embodiment each fastening device comprises a male snap and each of the plurality of mating fastening devices comprises a complementary mating female snap.

In an alternate embodiment apparatus includes more than one fastening device A on front side of section . In such an embodiment the fastening devices A are positioned in a linear arrangement along longitudinally extending axis .

In an alternate embodiment apparatus includes more than one mating fastening device A attached to rear side of section . In such an embodiment mating fastening devices A are positioned in a linear arrangement along longitudinally extending axis .

In an alternate embodiment apparatus includes more than one fastening device B attached to front side of portion . In such an embodiment mating fastening devices B are positioned in a linear arrangement.

In an alternate embodiment apparatus includes more than one mating fastening device B on the rear side of portion . In such an embodiment mating fastening devices B are positioned in a linear arrangement.

Referring to C A and B apparatus is configured so that any one of a variety of decorative items and pieces can be removably attached to substantially T shaped member . In order to achieve this object apparatus includes fastening device on section . In a preferred embodiment fastening device is located at or in proximity to the center region of second section . Fastening device is configured to be removably connected to a mating fastening device that is part of a decorative item or piece. This allows the decorative item or piece to be removably attached to substantially T shaped member . For example referring to there is shown a rear side of a decorative item in the shape of heart. Decorative item includes mating fastening device which is configured to be removably connected to fastening device . Referring to there is shown apparatus in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. Apparatus comprises a substantially T shaped member which comprises first section and second section . Section was previously shown in . First section includes distal end . First section is a modified version of first section which is shown in . Specifically first section has decorative surface and contour whereas first section shown in has a substantially flat surface. Decorative item is removably attached to substantially T shaped member . Decorative item comprises a body member . A mating fastening device not shown is on the rear side not shown of body member and is removably connected to fastening device . show other examples of decorative items that can be removably attached to apparatus . shows a decorative item is in the shape of a dolphin. Decorative item includes mating fastening device which is configured to be removably connected to fastening device . shows decorative item that is in the shape of a bear. Decorative item includes mating fastening device which is configured to be removably connected to fastening device . Referring to decorative item is removably attached to apparatus and has an ornamental design that simulates a piece of jewelry. It is to be understood that the decorative items that can be removably attached to substantially T shaped member can be of any ornamental design and that the decorative items and are just examples. In one embodiment decorative items are magnetically attached to substantially T shaped member . In such an embodiment fastening device is configured as a magnet and a piece of magnetic material is attached to the rear side of the decorative item.

Referring to B and C apparatus further comprises device that is removably attached to substantially T shaped member for securing or hanging apparatus on a hook nail or other similar object. In one embodiment device comprises a generally U shaped member having a pair of ends and . Device includes a pair of fastening devices and that are attached to ends and respectively. Fastening devices and are configured to be removably attached to corresponding mating fasteners and respectively on rear side of section see . In an alternate embodiment device is removably attached to a different location on second section using fastening devices and corresponding mating fastening devices. Device has a size and shape that allows it to be secured to a clothes closet hanger bar or other similar structure. In order to secure device to the clothes closet hanger bar the user detaches or unfastens either fastening device or from its corresponding mating fastening device or respectively. The open end of device is then wrapped or looped over the hanger bar and then refastened to its corresponding mating fastening device or . In a preferred embodiment device is made from flexible material such a plastic metal wire rubber strong fabric etc.

In an alternate embodiment a hook is used in place of device . In such an alternate embodiment the hook has a fastening device that is configured to be removably connected to a corresponding mating fastening device on second section . The hook has a size and shape that allows it to be secured to a clothes closet hanger bar or other similar structure.

Referring to and first portion and second portion each have a length that is sufficient to allow first and second portion and respectively to be inserted through a pair of footwear e.g. pair of sandals or some other object and then attached together with fastening device B on first portion of second section and mating fastening device B on second portion of second section . This is illustrated in wherein apparatus secures a pair of sandals and together. Sandal has top strap . Similarly sandal has top strap . The user inserts portion of section under strap of sandal . Similarly the user inserts portion of section under strap . Portions and are attached together using fastening device B and mating fastening device B.

Referring to there is shown a pair of apparatuses arranged in a daisy chain configuration. The upper apparatus also indicated by reference number A is secured to a clothes closet hanger bar by device . Portions and are attached together to form a first closed loop. Section forms a second closed loop when mating fastening device A is attached to fastening device A. When apparatus is manipulated by the user to form both first and second closed loops then apparatus is in the completely fastened state. Footwear e.g. sandals can be secured in the first closed loop formed by portions and see or the footwear can be secured in the loop formed by section . Device of the lower apparatus also indicated by reference number B is secured to the loop formed by section of the upper apparatus A. Lower apparatus B is not in the completely fastened state and thus section of the lower apparatus B hangs downward. If a user desires to attach an additional apparatus to the daisy chain the user must form a closed loop with section of the lower apparatus B by attaching the mating fastening device A to the corresponding fastening device A. Next the user may secure device of the third apparatus to the closed loop formed by section of the apparatus B. Thus a user can add as many apparatuses to the daisy chain as he or she desires.

Referring to both apparatuses A and B are completely fastened. Lower apparatus B is suspended from upper apparatus A. Sandal is secured to lower apparatus B. Sandal has straps and . First section is disposed under straps and and wrapped around the sole of sandal so as to secure sandal to apparatus B. Device is suspended from the loop formed by fastened section of lower apparatus B so that a third apparatus can be removably secured to lower apparatus B.

The apparatus of the present invention has many uses and applications. Apparatus may be removably secured to a belt loop back pack knap sack bicycle etc. This can be accomplished by just inserting or wrapping portions and around the object e.g. belt loop and then attaching portions and together to form the closed loop. In the alternative device can be attached to apparatus and then device can then be removably secured or attached to almost any object e.g. bicycle handle belt loops closet hanger knap sack back pack any of the loops on a back pack or knap sack nail peg clothes hook clothes closet hanger bar etc. Apparatus may be used to carry or store other objects such as belts keys toys jewelry etc.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

