---

title: Hydrogen evolution reaction catalyst
abstract: Systems and methods for a hydrogen evolution reaction catalyst are provided. Electrode material includes a plurality of clusters. The electrode exhibits bifunctionality with respect to the hydrogen evolution reaction. The electrode with clusters exhibits improved performance with respect to the intrinsic material of the electrode absent the clusters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09255334&OS=09255334&RS=09255334
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09255334
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
The United States Government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention generally relates to water electrolysis catalysts. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to catalysts for use in the hydrogen evolution and oxygen evolution reactions in an alkaline environment.

Growing concerns about global warming and energy security demand the expansion of renewable energy sources as viable alternatives to fossil fuel based technologies in conjunction with improved energy storage options. In many of the innovative approaches to address these challenges the production of hydrogen in various photo electrolysis systems plays a pivotal role. Today electrolytically produced hydrogen comes mainly from the chloralkali industry and water electrolysis. In water alkali electrolysers WAEs for example the cathodic half cell reaction is the hydrogen evolution reaction HER the electrochemical transformation of water to molecular hydrogen and hydroxyl ions 2HO 2eH2 2OH . The mechanism of the HER is typically treated as a combination of three elementary steps the Volmer step water dissociation and formation of a reactive intermediate Had 2H0 M 2e2M H 2OH followed by either the Heyrovsky step H0 H M eM H or the Tafel recombination step 2M H2M H . Adsorbed hydrogen species Had formed at potentials negative of the Nernst reversible potential for the HER is also referred to as overpotentially deposited hydrogen H . The different states of adsorbed hydrogen can also be referred based on thermodynamic guidelines as H the strongly adsorbed state and H H a weakly adsorbed state. Although the reactions pathways are similar due to the activated water dissociation step the HER activities for most catalysts in alkaline medium are usually 2 3 orders of magnitude lower than in acid solutions. The anodic half cell reaction the oxygen evolution reaction OER is a far more complex process in which the hydroxyl ions generated at the cathode are consumed at the anode to produce oxygen and water molecules 4OHO 2HO 4e . Given the harsh conditions associated with the OER the choice of catalysts for electrolysis are typically noble metal oxides such as those of Ru Ir and other forms of these. The poor conductivities and activities of the cheaper transition metal oxides such as that of 3d elements have limited their utilization in these systems. One way around it has been the use of high loadings of such materials.

Given that the supply of water is virtually inexhaustible the hydrogen and oxygen production in WAEs can in principle be highly economical and almost limitless. In practice however large scale electrochemical production of hydrogen from water splitting is greatly constrained by two fundamental limitations 1 the high overpotentials defined as the difference between the reversible potential and the operating potential of the HER and the OER in alkaline solutions and 2 the lack of stability of electrode materials. The HER and the OER play key roles in a wide range of areas including water and chlor alkali electrolysis metal deposition corrosion and fuel production from COreduction. The HER is also an electrochemical reaction of fundamental scientific importance since the basic laws of electrode kinetics as well as many modern concepts in electrocatalysis were developed and verified by examining the reaction mechanisms related to the charge transfer induced conversion of protons acid solutions and water alkaline solutions to molecular hydrogen.

It is not clear why the rate of the HER is 2 to 3 orders of magnitude lower at pH 13 than at pH 1 nor is it understood why the reaction is sensitive to the catalyst surface structure in alkaline media but largely insensitive in acids. A practical implication of the slow kinetics in alkaline solution is the lower energy efficiency for both water alkali and chlor alkali electrolyzers. For water alkali electrolyzers the high overpotentials for the oxygen evolution reaction OER at the anode also contribute significantly to overall energy losses. This has led to various approaches to identify catalysts for both OER and HER. However rarely have these strategies for design of materials been based on molecular level understanding of the reaction pathways. In addition the influence of non covalent Van der Waals type interactions on the overall kinetics of the HER has been under explored particularly in light of recent studies highlighting the impact of non covalent interactions on the rates of many electrochemical reactions such as oxygen reduction reaction CO and methanol oxidation reaction.

Design and synthesis of materials for efficient electrochemical transformation of water to molecular hydrogen and of hydroxyl ions to oxygen in alkaline environments is of paramount importance in reducing energy losses in water alkali electrolysers. For decades practical design of metal catalysts for the HER in acidic media has been based on the well known concept of volcano plots. with rare exceptions a classical volcano shaped correlation is found from both experimental results as well as computational approaches with metals that adsorb hydrogen neither too strongly nor too weakly the Pt group metals occupying the top of volcano. While the metals that adsorb hydrogen too strongly Ru 3d elements are positioned on the descending part of the volcano the IB group metals which exhibit a weak M Had interaction on the ascending part. Similar plots also have been generated for the OER catalyst materials for simple oxides RuOand IrOexist at the apex of the volcano with other transition metal oxides in both the ascending and descending portion of the curves. For more complex oxides such as perovskites similar positions exist with the metals in the B site of the lattice determining the overall position in the volcano plot. One issue with the use of such volcano plots is the lack of clear information on active sites for the theoretical calculation effort ideal surfaces are used which seldom exist in reality. Similarly for experimentally derived rarely are the materials well defined which results in several ambiguities due to the contributions from other factors such as defects inhomogeneities etc. . . . .

A great many materials have been tested for the HER and the OER in alkaline environments including various combinations of metals metal alloys simple oxides such as RuO IrO refs 15 16 and more complex materials such as combinations of 3d oxides sulphides phosphates and perovskites. Currently various combinations of metals pt Pd Ir Ru Ag Ni metal alloys Ni Co Ni Mn Ni Mo metal oxides Ru02 and Ni sulfides Ni phosphides are used to catalyze the conversion of H0 to H. Unfortunately no current catalysts provide sufficient activity for hydrogen production which is usually overcome with higher loading of these materials thereby resulting in high overpotentials and energy losses. While most of the Pt group metals are good catalysts for the adsorption recombination of the reactive hydrogen intermediates H they are generally inefficient for the process of water dissociation. On the other hand although metal oxides and in some cases other compounds such as sulfides are effective for cleaving the H OH bond they are highly ineffective in converting the resulting Hintermediates to H. In addition there are inherent issues with non noble materials stemming from the decrease in activity during operation arising from the formation of hydrides as well as the overall durability issues stemming from the dissolution of the catalyst materials during intermittent start stop operations. Some of these issues have been overcome with alloying in very high loadings of such catalyst materials 25 40 times the equivalent for Pt in order to achieve the desirable activity. Similarly for the OER given the harsh conditions the stability of the materials is critical. Given the relatively low stability of most of these materials the norm of using higher loading is common. Also the limitation with development of new catalysts for the OER is the lack of clear fundamental knowledge required to design new catalysts.

Although these materials have shown interesting variations in catalytic behavior from one catalyst to the next all of the currently used catalysts operate at high overpotentials. One of the major reasons for the slow progress in finding improved catalysts in WAEs is that the selection of these materials has been guided by a purely trial and error and or a combinatorial approach and no studies focusing on a systematic understanding of trends in the fundamental atomic scale catalytic properties of these reactions on well characterized materials have been established. Current state of the art materials including oxides and metal catalysts are seldom cost effective with noble metals having high materials cost and oxides having high performance cost.

One embodiment of the invention relates to an electrode for use in the hydrogen evolution reaction. The electrode comprises an electrode metal. A plurality of metal hydr oxide clusters are deposited on the surface of the electrode metal. The electrode exhibits bifunctionality with respect to the hydrogen evolution reaction.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a electrolytic cell comprising an anode and a cathode. The cathode has a plurality of metal hydr oxide clusters deposited on the surface of the electrode metal. The electrolytic cell further comprises an electrolyte. The electrode exhibits bifunctionality with respect to the hydrogen evolution reaction.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of generating hydrogen. A cell is formed having a cathode an anode and an alkaline electrolyte. The cathode has a plurality of metal hydr oxide clusters deposited thereon. A current is applied to the cell. Disassociation of water and the production of hydrogen intermediates is facilitated at the plurality of metal hydr oxide clusters. Hydrogen intermediates are adsorbed to the cathode surface. Hydrogen intermediates are combined to form molecular hydrogen.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

HER catalyst activity varies depending on the pH of the Environment. Whereas in acid solutions the reaction is controlled mainly by the hydrogen recombination the Tafel step in alkaline solutions the kinetics are determined by a delicate balance between the water dissociation the Volmer step and concomitant interaction of water dissociation products with a surface. In one implementation the present invention relates to systems and methods of tailoring a controlled and well characterized arrangement of metal hydr oxide clusters on electrode surfaces such that an 2 8 fold increase in the activity of the HER relative to state of the art metal and metal oxide catalysts can be realized. The catalytic proficiencies of metals and metal oxides are combined by creating a bi functional metal oxide metal material metal oxides deposited on metal substrates for the HER. In a bi functional effect the edges of the metal hydr oxide clusters promote the dissociation of water and the production of hydrogen intermediates that then adsorb H on the nearby electrode surfaces and recombine into molecular hydrogen. The composite materials of certain embodiments facilitate different parts of the overall multistep HER process in alkaline environments an oxide to provide the active sites for dissociation of water and a metal to facilitate adsorption of the atomic hydrogen produced and its subsequent association to form Hfrom these intermediates. This bi functionality within the catalyst material overcomes an otherwise a significant bottleneck in design active catalysts.

In one embodiment a material capable of disassociating water is deposited on the surface of an electrode material. In one embodiment the disassociative material is a metal hydr oxide. Preferably the materials is a 3 d transition metal hydr oxide such as Ni OH . Facile water dissociation properties of Ni hydroxy oxides compared to other transition metal oxides have been well established but it should be appreciated that other materials for facilitating water dissociation may be utilized. Other materials such as other transition metal oxides as well as any other metal alloy oxides can also be employed. The range of elements include but are not limited to Ni Co Fe Mn Pb Zn Bi Mo Ru Ir. In one implementation the Ni OH is deposited as clusters for example having a height of about 0.7 nm and a width of about 8 to about 10 nm may be deposited. The preferred range for each implementation is dependent on the substrate geometry orientation etc. Typically clusters of 1 2 monolayers thick are preferred due to the enhanced conductivity of these sized clusters. The size of the clusters needs to be optimal to provide the activity without any stability issues. In one implementation the Ni OH covers about 35 of the exposed electrode. The critical coverage needs to be determined as a function of both the base metal and the hydr oxy oxide clusters. As shown in there exists an optimal coverage for the HER. The relative coverages of the Ni OH clusters is expected to be different between different elements including elements within the same group depending on oxophilicity metal sites available etc. . . . . It is believed there is little dependence on coverage at sufficient low current densities.

In one embodiment specific electrolytes are utilized to provide additional improvement to the reaction kinetics. Also not considering the role of electrolyte components such as the cations have also limited the extent of improvement achievable. In one implementation the Had generation step can be further enhanced via alkali metal induced destabilization of the HO H bond. For Li a 10 fold total increase in activity has been observed. The electrolyte containing cations which interact strongly with OH species can be helped to influence the kinetics. This would include and not limited to Ba Ca Mg and maybe in some cases Al Be. The main criteria for working is that these ions are stable and do not undergo any formation of oxide or deposition during the recation as that would poison the catalyst. As for the concentration a whole range can be used from 0.001M to 1M for the electrolyte.

It should be appreciated that the development of active sites for water dissociation on well defined single crystal surfaces can be fully translated to nanoscale systems. Further systems may be synthesized by deposition of metal oxides including but are not limited to Co Fe Mn Pb Zn Bi Mo Ru Ir. and or a mixture of these oxides on a platinum or other noble metals such as Au Ru Ir etc. The metals range from 3d metals such as Ni Co Cu Mn Fe Cr as well as V W Ti Pd. This approach is applicable for relatively all metals that are stable.

Activity for HER and OER in an Alkaline electrolytes can be enhanced by using such an approach. The HER by using the advantage of bi functional catalyst and for the OER using the conductive hydr oxy oxides deposited on metal substrates. The metal substrate can be made from any metal which is relatively cheap and stable under the OER conditions.

In one embodiment a stable metal substrate is made from a non noble cheap metal core with a surface layer or two of the more stable metal in the OER region. A simple example will be using Fe Cu core Au shell particle which can then be modified with hydr oxy oxide clusters to obtain the conductive stable oxides for the HER OER. For the case of the HER the choice of the surface layer metal can be either Pt Ir or Ni and for the OER the substrate could be Au Ru Ir etc.

Activity for HER and OER in an alkaline environment has not previously been characterized. Characterization was carried out using the well characterized MO OH Pt 111 catalyst surfaces M D Ni Co Fe Mn to establish clear trends in activity for the HER and the OER of a complex oxide system. Here using 3d M hydr oxy oxides with distinct stoichiometries and morphologies in the hydrogen evolution reaction HER and the oxygen evolution reaction OER regions the overall catalytic activities for these reaction are established as a function of a more fundamental property a descriptor OH M2C  bond strength 0 1 5 . This relationship exhibits trends in reactivity Mn

Electrode preparation extended surface electrode preparation. Pt 111 and Au 111 electrodes were prepared by inductive heating for 15 min at 1 100 K 1 000 K for Au in an argon hydrogen flow 3 hydrogen 35. Although preparation by inductive heating leads to formation of defects such as ad islands on the surface the number of such defects is low enough to be electrochemically invisible. The annealed specimens were cooled slowly to room temperature under an inert atmosphere and immediately covered with a droplet of deionized DI water. Electrodes were then assembled into a rotating disk electrode RDE ensemble. Voltammograms were recorded in argon saturated electrolytes. The Ag AgCl reference electrode was used but all potentials in the paper are shown versus the reversible hydrogen electrode RHE . Nanoparticles either synthesized in house or commercially acquired are then suspended in water at a concentration of 1 mg ml or higher and then deposited onto a substrate such as glassy carbon and dried under Ar H2 atmosphere. The loadings are chosen to range from 50 micrograms cm2 to 1 mg cm2 depending on the nature of materials.

Metal hydroxide deposition. All substrates considered in this work freshly prepared extended surfaces ad island covered surfaces as well as high surface area catalyst electrodes were washed thoroughly and introduced into an electrolyte containing various concentrations of transition metal perchlorates chlorides. Concentration ranges tested include 1501 000 ppm. Following the introduction of the electrode the oxide layers were then deposited either potentiostatically held at potentials above 0.6 V or by cycling between Hand the OHregions. Typical coverages of 30 40 were obtained within 10 min of treatment. For higher coverages higher concentrations as well as longer times were used. After deposition the electrodes were rinsed and introduced into the clean electrochemical cell. The Hof the modified surface is compared against that of the bare surface to estimate the effective surface coverage of the oxide species.

Chemicals. All alkali metal hydroxides and perchlorate salts used were obtained in the highest purity from Sigma Aldrich. Electrolytes used for our experiments 0.1M KOH LiOH were prepared with Millipore DI water. All gases argon oxygen hydrogen were of 5N5 quality purchased from Airgas. A typical three electrode fluoro ethylene propylene FEP polymer based cell was used to avoid contamination from glass components. Experiments were controlled using an Autolab PGSTAT 302N potentiostat. Gold or platinum wires were used as counter electrodes for studying hydrogen evolution reaction. Precautions were taken to prevent significant accumulation of dissolved counter electrode ions near the working electrode.

Electrochemical measurements. After extensive rinsing the electrode was embedded into the RDE and transferred into a standard three compartment electrochemical cell containing 0.1M KOH LiOH Sigma Aldrich . In each experiment the electrode was immersed at 0.05 V in a solution saturated with argon. After obtaining a stable cycle between 0.05 and 0.7 V the electrolyte was saturated with H following which polarization curves for the HER were recorded on the disc electrodes between 0.05 V and 0.4 V. The lower potential limits were chosen so as to avoid significant bubble formation as well as to minimize the extended dissolution of the counter electrode. The concentration of Pt after 1 h of HER measurements was found to be less than 1 ppm in the working electrode compartment. All polarization curves were corrected for the infrared contribution within the cell. OER measurements were carried out by cycling the electrode up to 1.7 V versus RHE. Potential hold experiments were also carried out for the oxide Pt 111 systems to study the stability of the oxide clusters at these potentials as well as for preparation of samples for the STM measurements.

XAS XANES measurements. The X ray absorption spectroscopy XAS data were acquired at bending magnet beamline 12 BM B at the Advanced Photon Source APS Argonne National Laboratory. The synchrotron radiation was filtered by a double crystal Si 111 monochromator with a double mirror system for focusing and harmonic rejection. A custom made in situ transmission electrochemical X ray cell with a 6 mm diameter Pt 111 single crystal and Ag AgCl reference electrode was used in a grazing incidence geometry. A 13 element Ge detector CANBERRA was used to measure the fluorescence yield. Z 1 filters and grazing incidence geometry was used to minimize the elastic scattering intensity. The monochrometer calibration was monitored by simultaneously measuring the same element reference foil in front of a Si diode and looking at the air scattered beam. 

X ray absorption spectroscopy XAS data was collected and used to characterize the potential dependent stoichiometry and structure of the 3d M hydr oxy oxides. summarizes the XAS results for the Co oxide Pt 111 system as a representative of the 3d M elements considered in this work. Comparisons of reference samples at these potentials are also shown. The comparison reveals that 0 at 0.1 V and 1 at 1.4V. illustrates sample XAS spectra for CoO OH on Pt 111 surface for two different potentials E 0.1 V and E 1.4 V. is a STM for Co OH Pt 111 in the HER region. Polarization curves for the HER for this surface are also shown 50 mVs . The characteristic height of the clusters shown is 5.8 with a diameter for 15 22 nm. is a STM for CoOOH Pt 111 and includes the polarization curves for the OER. The characteristic height of the clusters shown is 5.6 with a diameter for 15 22 nm. Pure Pt 111 polarization curves are shown for comparison in both and . is a comparison of OHcharge as a function of oxophillicity of the metal oxide cation M for same coverages of the MO OH Pt 111 surface. Enhanced adsorption of OHis observed as the larger area under the anodic peak at 0.6 V as well as the early onset of the OHbutterfly region.

Results obtained from the XAS analyses for the other 3d M hydr oxy oxides are summarized in Table 1. With respect to Table 1 Mn is the valence state of the 3d element N is the first shell co ordination number M O is the characteristic bond distance between the 3d metal centre and the oxygen anion. Depending on the nature of the 3d metal different step changes in oxidation states are observed in different potential regions. The rate of change of oxidation states with potential are found to be dependent on the nature of the elements. In the HER with the exception of Fe all elements are in the 2 state. On the other hand in the OER region with the exception of Ni all elements are in an oxidation state 3. Fe with its complex redox chemistry at these potentials is known to exist in multiple forms such as Fe II and Fe III oxides and hydroxides and therefore exhibits a valence state between 2.5 and 3.0. Nickel exhibiting lower oxidation state at this potential is not surprising because for the Ni modified surfaces we found that at 1.4V the phase of Ni OH present on the Pt 111 surface resembles that of Ni OH and this phase of nickel hydroxide is known to remain stable up to high potentials 

Examination of X ray absorption near edge structure XANES results reveals that at 0.1 V the Co OH elements remain mostly in the valence state 2 Co in the form of Co OH whereas at 1.4 V the valence state is close to 3 Co resembling CoOOH. Also included in Table 1 are the M O distances and coordination numbers of the corresponding 3d M hydr oxy oxides which as expected are dependent on both the nature of the 3d elements as well as the applied electrode potential. Overall examination of the XAS results summarized in Table 1 reveals several significant features. All 3d elements are found to be in valence states different from M 0 indicative of the absence of metal deposition on the Pt 111 substrates the oxidation state of the 3d M elements is found to be dependent on potential with the rate of this change being slowest for Ni and fastest for Mn. With the exception of Fe ref. 27 the nature stoichiometry of the 3d M hydr oxy oxides at 0.1 V is found to be in the form of M u hydroxides. In contrast at 1.4 V the nature stoichiometry for these 3d M hydr oxy oxides is found to be more diverse where Co and Fe are present in the M iii oxyhydroxide form with Mn showing a higher valence state 3.5 with an unclear stoichiometry and Ni exhibiting the lowest valence state of 2.3. X ray absorption spectroscopy results clearly indicate that the surface chemistry of the 3d oxides studied in this work is complex. A general notation is used for simplicity given by MO OH 0

The morphology of the 3d M hydr oxy oxide Pt 111 surfaces was studied using scanning tunneling microscopy STM . Again the STM data for the Co OH 2 and CoOOH clusters on Pt 111 are presented as a typical case similar observations were made for Fe and Ni species. The STM image in clearly shows that Co OH particles are present as clusters with an approximate surface coverage of 40 for the image shown which are randomly distributed across the 111 terraces. The Co OH clusters have spheroid like shapes with characteristic diameters of 7 10 nm and heights of 0.49 0.65 nm the latter dimension corresponds to approximately two layers of electrically conductive Co OH . The distribution of the clusters over the entire surface indicates that the clusters grow in a three dimensional 3D Volmer Weber fashion seldom achieving a complete monolayer coverage. Importantly after recording 50 cyclic voltammograms CVs between 0.3V 0.4 V the STM images of all 3d M hydr oxy oxide Pt 111 systems remain the same indicating that in this potential range the morphology of the surface is stable. In contrast for an electrode held at 1.55 V the STM image in indicates significant sintering of the CoOOH nanoparticles a distribution of sizes ranging from 15 to 25 nm with approximately constant heights of two layers. This morphology was found to be stable in the OER region potential and time independent . Given that similar morphological changes were exhibited by the other MO OH Pt 111 systems it is believed that these well defined surface structures form the basis for any predictive ability in tailoring catalysts to have desirable reactivity for the HER and the OER in alkaline environments.

Electrochemical characterization was carried out by comparing the CVs of the Pt 111 and Co OH Pt 111 surfaces inset in . As was the case for the XAS and STM analyses the CV behavior of Co OH is a fair representation of the other 3d M hydr oxy oxide systems shown in inset of . Consistent with earlier reports for Pt 111 cyclic voltammetry of Pt 111 shows that the adsorption of underpotentially deposited hydrogen defined as the state of hydrogen adsorbed at a potential that is positive of the Nernst potential for the hydrogen reaction H between 0.05 and 0.35 V is followed first by a wide double layer potential region and then by the formation of an OHadlayer usually termed as the butterfly region between 0.6 and 0.95 V. bottom inset shows that the surface coverage of the H is reduced by 45 on a Co OH Pt 111 electrode. Other 3d M hydr oxy oxide covered surfaces behave in a similar manner inset suggesting they act as a third body selectively blocking the adsorption of Hwithout affecting the Pt Henergetics. Thus determination of the from CVs of modified Pt 111 surfaces enables accurate determination of surface coverage by the 3d M hydr oxy oxide clusters. In the following Pt 111 is always modified with nearly identical 45 amounts of these clusters thereby enabling the use of a well characterized MO OH Pt 111 electrode 0 1.5 .

In contrast to the Pt Hbonding shows that the effects of a CoO OH Pt 111 modified Pt 111 surface on adsorption of OH are significant. Three distinct features are noteworthy 1 the increase in the charge under the OH region between 0.6 V

The electrodes showing a linear variation in the with the nature of the 3d M elements . The trend in the values of as a function of the 3d M cation indicates that this quantity correlates well with the OH M bonding. Although the physical processes that are associated with the formation of OHon metal and metal oxide surfaces are not well defined there is some consensus that in alkaline solution the pseudocapacitance observed in the CVs of Pt 111 in the range 0.6

The reaction mechanism for CO oxidation reaction has been well established as following the Langmuir Hinshelwood L H pathway for Pt bimetallic systems such as PtSn and PtMo refs 30 37 . These catalysts are bi functional in nature where the CO adsorbs exclusively on the Pt sites and the OHgroups are present exclusively on the more oxophilic Sn Mo sites that facilitate the oxidative removal of CO. In line with these systems for the case of Pt 111 modified by MO OH clusters it believed that whereas CO is adsorbed exclusively on the Pt sites COPt CO the OHspecies adsorb preferentially on 3d M hydr oxy oxides OH MO OH OH MO OH e . The presence of OHcan then be tested simply by monitoring the rate of CO oxidation at the constant electrode potential through a L H type reaction Pt COad OH MO OH 2OHHCO e HO . illustrates polarization curves for CO oxidation on CoO OH Pt 111 and bare Pt 111 as typical examples the corresponding activities for other 3d element modified electrodes are summarized in .

Clearly the CO oxidation current on CoO OH Pt 111 is shifted negatively by about 0.3 V with respect to the bare Pt 111 surface indicating that this surface behaves as a bi functional catalyst. As depicted schematically in bottom inset the reaction proceeds along the perimeters of COislands and neighboring M sites. The fact that the onset potential for the CO oxidation reaction on Co modified Pt 111 is observed at 0.1 V strongly suggests that oxygenated species must be present on the CoO OH defect sites at these potentials. Although the same conclusion commonly holds true for all other MO OH Pt 111 systems the reactivity of these surfaces for the CO oxidation reaction is found to be dependent on the nature of the 3d element.

In general the kinetics of the CO oxidation reaction on these surfaces is expected to be a function of both the Pt COand OH M energetics. If the Pt COinteraction is treated as independent of the nature of the 3d M hydr oxy oxide then the rate of the CO oxidation reaction should depend only on the OH M energetics. Thus by fixing the Pt COenergetics it is possible to treat the reaction as a pseudo mono functional reaction that is controlled by the descriptor related to OH M bond strength. Indeed reveals that the rate of the CO oxidation reaction is inversely proportional to the OH M bond strength that is the activity increases in the order Mn

As a starting point the kinetic rates of the OER on the Pt 111 oxide electrode dubbed hereafter as PtO and the CoOOH PtO electrode shown as inset in . As were compared before the Co system is representative of the other MO OH systems. shows that the onset of the OER on the CoOOH PtO electrode is shifted by 0.25 V to more negative potentials compared with PtO. These differences may reflect variations in the energetics activation energies and or the enthalpies of adsorption for the formation of active intermediates at these two surfaces the exact values of which are unknown. Nevertheless the low activity of PtO consistent with earlier reports is indicative of the weaker OH PtO interaction and thus it seems that the rate determining step for such noble metal catalysts could be the formation of OHad PtO intermediates OH PtOOH PtO e . Along the same lines the significant activity enhancement of the OER on the CoOOH PtO electrode could be due to the enhanced interaction of OH with CoOOH. To verify this we have also compared the OER on the CoOOH AuO electrode. The fact that the rate of reaction on both these surfaces is the same top inset of is confirmation that the OER reaction rate is controlled only by interaction of reactants and reaction intermediates with CoOOH and not the metal substrate. Given that the same is also true for the other MO OH Pt 111 electrodes these catalysts are purely mono functional a fact which is further confirmed by the monotonic variation in OER activities as a function of loading of the CoOOH clusters. As summarized in the OER on MO OH PtO exhibits activities increasing from Mn to Ni hydr oxy oxides. is a chart illustrating the trend in overpotential for the oxygen evolution reaction OER is shown as a function of the 3d transition elements. The elements are arranged in the order of their oxophilicity from Mn to Ni. Pt is shown in the figure as a reference. Top inset a comparison of polarization curves for Pt 111 and Au 111 with 40 CoOOH for the OER. As can clearly be seen the two potential curves are identical suggesting a limited or no role played by the noble metal substrate for this reaction. As a result this reaction is classified as a mono functional reaction and the main descriptor as can be clearly seen from the trend is still the OH M interaction. Bottom inset a schematic showing the OER. OH from the bulk is found to adsorb on the free catalyst site on the oxide clusters. The adsorbed OH groups OHreact with other such groups to form a reaction intermediate re combination which is then further oxidized to Oand HO.

This suggests that the overall reaction rates are driven by the strength of the interaction between the two oxidic species the recombination step being the rate determining 2OH MO OH products rather than by the initial adsorption step OH MO OH OH MO OH e which as shown in exhibits the opposite trend compared with that in . More than one recombined species might be formed during OER chemistry on oxides but those mechanistic details do not affect our interpretations of the OER trends. In particular too strong an interaction between 3d M hydr oxy oxides and OHcan lead to an adverse effect wherein the reaction intermediates are stabilized leading to a lower turnover frequency defined as the number of complete reaction events per site per second . This leads to poisoning of the surface and a concomitant decrease in OER activities as shown schematically in bottom inset . Thus for the 3d elements considered here Ni with its optimal interaction strength with OH satisfies the Sabatier principle for catalyst design. Considering that the reactivity trends observed for the OER Ni Co Fe Mn match that observed for the CO reactivity we can conclude that the OH M interaction oxophilicity trends can be extended up to the OER potential regions. The trends in the energetics between OH M for OH produced as the water dissociation product which are relevant in the hydrogen evolution potential region are similar to that for the OHformed from the supporting electrolyte between 0.05 and 2.0 V.

In a bi functional effect the edges of Ni OH clusters promote the dissociation of water HOH OH e . The dissociation step is then followed by H adsorption on the nearby Pt surfaces HPt H and by adsorption of OH on Ni OH see bottom inset in . The kinetics of the HER will depend both on the rate of Hrecombination which is optimized on the Pt substrate and on the rate of desorption of OHto accommodate the adsorption of HO on Ni OH clusters. The presence of a bi functional mode of catalysis for the HER is also confirmed by the observed enhancement for the HER activities on Co OH Pt 111 systems See . Further confirmation of the bi functional mechanism was achieved by observing a distinct maximum in the activity versus coverage of Co OH as well as by comparing the Co OH Au 111 systems with their Pt 111 counterparts. Thus the overall rate of the HER may in principle be controlled by optimizing the density and the nature of the sites required for dissociation of water on MO OH as well as OHMO OH and metal Henergetics.

Here using MO OH Pt 111 surfaces the descriptor related to the adsorption energetics of Pt His fixed which the HER to be treated as a pseudo mono functional reaction controlled by the descriptor related to OH M bond strength. illustrates The elements are arranged in order of their oxophillicity from Mn to Ni. Pt is shown in the figure as a reference. In the top inset a comparison of polarization curves for Pt 111 and Au 111 with 40 Co OH for the HER. As can clearly be seen the Au 111 oxide surface is significantly less active than the Pt 111 counterpart. This essentially establishes the role played by the Pt Hdescriptor. On fixing this interaction by using Pt 111 as the main substrate we have focused on the pseudo mono functional reaction with the OH intermediate on the oxide cluster along with forming Hintermediate formed on the Pt substrate. The Hgroups recombine to form H2. Depending on the OH M strength the OH is either stabilized for Mn Fe or destabilized Ni Co on the oxide clusters which is found to dictate the turnover frequencies for these catalysts.

As summarized in a monotonic relationship exists between the HER activity and the OH M with the most active catalysts being Ni OH Pt 111 and the least active Mn OH Pt 111 . On the basis of the observed catalytic trends it is clear that a balance must be found between the transition state energies for water dissociation and the final state energies of adsorbed OH MO OH . According to the standard Br nsted Evans Polanyitype principles this results in lower activation barriers for water dissociation while also resulting in poisoning of the sites required for re adsorption of water molecules. The net result is that the turnover frequency substantially decreases below bare Pt activity for the Fe and Mn hydr oxy oxides on which OHis more strongly adsorbed. In essence this suggests that the Fe and Mn behave purely as spectators blocking the Pt active sites for transforming HO to H. The best combination among the 3d elements considered here is found for the Ni OH Pt 111 which has the most favourable balance between facilitating water dissociation and preventing poisoning with OH water dissociation product together with the optimal Pt Henergetics. The activity trends derived for the HER using a series of 3d M cations with different interaction strength with OHad clearly establishes the presence of OHad in the HER region ECo Fe Mn on surfaces with constant Pt Hinteraction are identical to the trends in oxophilicity established from the CO oxidation reaction OH adsorption in the butterfly region and the OER above 1.6 V strongly validates the use of OHad OH M interaction strength as the descriptor controlling the HER on these MO OH Pt Au systems.

Conductive ultrathin Ni OH clusters height 0.7 nm width 8 to 10 nm were grown on both pristine Pt single crystal surfaces and Pt surfaces modified by two dimensional 2D Pt ad islands Pt islands Pt 111 . Relative to the corresponding Pt single crystal surfaces the most active Ni OH Pt islands Pt 111 electrodes in KOH solutions are more active for the HER by a factor of 8 at an overpotential of 0.1 V. The HER is further improved by the introduction of solvated Li ions into the compact portion of the double layer resulting in a factor of 10 total increase in activity.

The atomic structures of Pt 111 and Pt 111 modified by electrochemically deposited Pt islands referred as Pt islands Pt 111 have previously been studied and characterized. Pt islands Pt 111 have previously been observed to impact cyclic voltammetry CV traces. Consistent with the higher oxophilicity of low coordinated Pt sites the onset of OH adsorption starts at more negative potentials on the Pt island covered electrode than on pristine Pt 111 whereas the OHpeaks are less reversible on the former surface.

Pt 111 and Pt island Pt 111 surfaces were modified by depositing 3d transition metal oxides even more active for water dissociation than Pt defect sites. The 3 d transition metal oxide was deposited as Ni hydr oxide clusters. The local symmetry the oxidation state of Ni atoms and the number and identities of and distances between nearest neighbor atoms were determined by insitu X ray absorption spectroscopy XAS measurements. For example from the analysis of the X ray absorption near edge structure XANES and extended X ray absorption fine structure EXAFS of the XAS spectra as shown in inset of Ni O and Ni Ni bond distances were found of 2.05 0.0 I and 3.08 0.0 I . It was also determined that Ni remains mostly in the 2 valence state even after multiple hours of holding the electrode potential at 0.1 V. Furthermore from the edge shift defined as the half height energy of the normalized XANES edge step between 0.1 V and 0.8 V the change in the oxidation state of Ni is less than 0.5. These results suggest that stable Ni OH clusters are the predominant hydr oxide form on the Pt 111 and Pt islands Pt 111 surfaces especially in the HER potential region. Because the octahedral symmetry of the and or forms of Ni OH prevents p d hybridization the prominent pre edge from Is 3d transitions implies that the Ni OH species are rich in defects. It is believed that such defects particularly active for dissociative adsorption of water molecules.

The surface morphologies of Ni OH 2 Pt 1 11 and Ni OH 2 Pt islands Pt 111 is probed by STM and in situ surface x ray SXS crystal truncation rod measurements. Although atomic resolution could not be obtained the STM image in clearly shows that the Ni OH clusters are randomly distributed across the 111 terraces. All Ni OH clusters exhibited hemisphere like shapes with characteristic diameters of 8 to 10 nm and heights of 0.7 nm the latter corresponding to two layers of Ni OH . This result indicates that the oxide exhibits Volmer Weber VW type growth whereby three dimensional 3D clusters of Ni OH grow even at the lowest coverages. VW growth in turn is possible if the heat of adsorption of Ni OH on Pt is lower than the cohesive energy of Ni OH .

The surface coverage of Ni OH on Pt 111 is estimated from the STM image by measuring the area covered by the particles on the Pt 111 substrate. Using such analysis the cluster density was found to reach a maximum at a surface coverage of 35 for this system. The STM image in was acquired after deposition of Ni OH on a Pt 111 surface modified by 0.2 monolayer ML of Pt islands. Clusters of Ni OH in the STM image appear elliposoidal with particle sizes between 4 and 12 nm. Formation of both 3D Ni OH clusters having a predominantly ellipsoidal shape and oxide free terraces were observed. The clusters had approximately constant heights of O.8 nm but diameters ranging from 4 to 12 nm. The same STM image however revealed no visible presence of 2D Pt islands suggesting that Ni OH preferentially nucleates on the Pt surface defects and that most of Pt islands are covered by Ni OH . In certain implementations the most preferred form is the optimal size distribution with small enough Ni OH 2 clusters that the islands help in nucleating the small hydr oxy oxide clusters growth. The nanoparticles and nanomaterials typically have such defects on the surface of the particles as a result the hydr oxy oxide clusters grown on them will have the optimal properties. Thus in certain embodiments the only property that needs to be tuned the is the activity of the materials.

The Ni OH clusters play an important function in the formation of Hand OHadlayers on Pt 111 and Pt 111 Pt islands electrodes. Addition of Ni OH on the surface of both Pt 111 as well as on the Pt 111 surface covered with Pt islands show systematic decrease in the coverage of Hby 35 . This suggests that the Ni OH clusters selectively block the Pt sites corresponding to H. Furthermore the two sharp Hpeaks characteristic of hydrogen adsorption desorption on the Pt 111 electrode modified by the 2D Pt islands are completely suppressed on the surface covered by the 3D Ni OH clusters . This is additional evidence consistent with the STM results that defects serve as the nucleation centers for electrodeposition of Ni OH . It is believed that Pt islands are predominantly covered by Ni OH . In contrast to the Hpotential region an enhanced adsorption of OH which is accompanied by irreversible reduction of OHon the negative going sweep is observed on both electrodes arising from the higher oxophilicity of the surface elements.

Although in the presence of Ni OH clusters there are 35 fewer Pt sites available for the HER than on the bare Pt 111 substrate the Ni OH Pt 111 electrode is 7 times more active for the HER than the corresponding bare Pt 111 electrode . Moreover shows that the activity is further enhanced 8 times relative to bare Pt 111 on the Ni OH Pt island Pt 111 surface at 6 mA cm2 the difference in overpotential between the HER in alkaline and acid solutions is reduced to only 100 mV. On both surfaces Ni OH promotes the dissociation of water and thereby enhances the rate of formation of Hintermediates on the metal surface. As schematically depicted in it is believed that water adsorption requires concerted interaction of O atoms with Ni OH and H atoms with Pt at the boundary between Ni OH and Pt domains. Water adsorption requires concerted interaction of atoms with Ni OH broken orange spikes and H atoms with Pt broken magenta spikes at the boundary between Ni OH and Pt domains. The Ni OH induced stabilization of hydrated cations AC broke dark blue spikes likely occurs through noncovalent van der Waals type interactions. Hydrated AC can further interact with water molecules broken yellow spikes altering the orientation of water as well as the nature and strength of interaction of the oxide with water. Water adsorption is then followed by water dissociation and hydrogen adsorption H on the nearby vacant Pt sites. Finally two Hatoms on the Pt surface recombine to form H Hdesorption step and OH desorbs from the Ni OH domains followed by adsorption of another water molecule on the same site.

From a surface reactivity standpoint fruitful kinetic synergy bi functionality between Ni OH and Pt appears to be the key to maximizing the rate of the HER. In A B incremental improvements in activities for the HER in 0.1M KOH from the unmodified Pt 111 surface are shown for the hierarchical materials ad islands Ni OH and their combination as well as the double layer addition of Li cations . The activity for the unmodified Pt 111 surface in 0.1 M HClOis shown for reference. Dashed arrow shows the activity trend. As shown in this bi functionality in turn brings the activity of the HER in alkaline solutions very close to the activity of Pt in acid solutions. In order to verify this conclusion we have also compared the HER on Au 111 and Ni OH Au 111 in alkaline solution. The relatively weak interaction between Au and Hoffsets the benefit of the enhanced water dissociation at the Au Ni OH interface. As a result the rate of the HER on the Ni OH Au 111 surface is much lower than on the Pt 111 Ni OH surface though the Au with Ni OH 2 exhibits a much higher HER activity than pure Au as well. This further emphasizes the importance of choosing the right metal oxide metal pairs in optimizing the kinetics of the HER. Generally metal with Ni OH 2 will have higher activity than the intrinsic metal. Two types of choices exist for the HER catalyst high activity higher cost catalyst preferably Ir metal with Ni OH 2 and the cost effective material with a higher loading preferably Ni metal and its different forms such as Raney and alloys with Ni OH 2 modification. As for the OER Ni and Co hydr oxy oxides are both suitable materials but improved by the described conductive oxide clusters by decorating them on a metal substrate preferably something stable in the OER region such as Au.

There have been several recent studies that unambiguously showed that the rate of electrochemical reactions on Pt in alkaline solutions is controlled by the presence of alkali metal cations AC . However these effects have been entirely restricted to the potential region of a critical OHad coverage E 0.6V the latter species serving to stabilize hydrated cations in the compact part of the double layer through non covalent Van der Waals type interactions. This stabilization leads to the formation of OH AC HO complexes that can either decrease the reactivity of Pt by blocking the active sites for adsorption of reactants such as O H2 and CHOH or as in the case of the CO oxidation reaction improve the reactivity of Pt via enhanced adsorption of OH.

For these purposes the effect of hydrated Li cations was probed mainly because in alkaline environments Li is known to interact with HO and OHmore strongly than K. Li cations have no effect on the HER on Pt 111 surfaces. However the results in revealed that the HER on Ni OH Pt islands Pt 111 is enhanced almost by a factor of two in the presence of Li cations. This increase in activity has substantially narrowed the gap between the rates of HER on Pt in acid and using the described Ni OH Pt islands Pt 111 in alkaline solution. shows that at 5 mA cm the difference in overpotential between acid and alkaline environments is narrowed to only 35 mV. The fact that the activity of the HER is affected by the nature of alkali metal cations strongly suggests that Ni OH Li OH H complexes are present in the compact portion of the double layer. The presence of this complex by itself does not explain the 2 fold increase in HER activity. It believed that the probability of water dissociation is significantly enhanced via possible L induced steric and or electronic effects on the interfacial water structure and reactivity as shown schematically in . Thus Ni OH plays a dual role in addition to assisting with water dissociation it also provides an anchor to hold the beneficial Li ions in the compact portion of the double layer.

The same guiding principles for accelerating the Volmer reaction step in alkaline solutions are equally applicable to Pt 110 . The CV and STM data for the Ni OH Pt islands Pt 110 are shown in . The general characteristics both structural and electrochemical are similar to what was observed for the corresponding Pt 111 systems. The current densities for the HER on Pt 110 and Pt nano systems are presented in the logarithmic Tafel form . As expected the systematic modification of Pt 110 first with Pt islands and then with Ni OHh exhibits an HER activity trend with the same order as the driving force for dissociative adsorption of water molecules as discussed above for the Pt 111 systems Pt 110 

Finally to demonstrate the generality of the behavior exhibited by the extended single crystal surfaces the hierarchical design approach was applied to real nanocatalysts. To verify the applicability of the approach for real electrocatalysts conventional Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo TKK catalysts 5 nm Pt catalyst were studied. Qualitatively similar trends were observed for nanocatalysts irrespective of shape or size variations but the results for the carbon supported Pt catalysts are shown. Nanoparticles by their very nature generally have a significant surface density of low coordinated Pt sites and consequently no attempts were made to deposit Pt islands on these nanoparticles. Materials for the electrode such as Pt which have low coordinated cites including nanomaterials allow for the preferential formation of Ni OH clusters. As for extended surfaces fractional coverage of Ni OH was estimated to be 15 to 20 based on the suppression of Hon a Pt nano surface covered by Ni OH . Furthermore the presence of Ni OH on the Pt nanoparticles was confirmed by significant promotion of the HER in particular at 10 mA cm the difference in overpotential between a Pt nano electrode in acid solution and a Li Ni OH Pt nano interface in alkaline solution narrowed to 40 mV. The roughness factor for the system considered here defined as the ratio of actual area and the geometric area is 6.5. The order of magnitude change observed in the HER activities 50 times for roughness factor change from 1 to 6.5 suggests that there is a significant scope of improvement in the overall activities by simply optimizing the surface area volume ratios of these electrocatalysts.

In one implementation catalysts are made from transition metals such as Ni CO Mn and Fe rather than noble metals. Transition metals are commercially less expensive and further lower the catalyst cost thereby aiding in the development of cost effective efficient alkaline electrolyzers. This is achieved by using 3d M hydr oxy oxides with distinct stoichiometries and morphologies in the HER and the OER regions.

The limited conductivity of transition metal oxides often leads to undesired ohmic losses. In the past it has been countered with the use of very high loadings of catalysts alloying the oxides as well as using conductive supports. However given the high potentials at which the OER takes place most support materials suffer from loss in conductivity thereby decreasing the overall reaction activity. This has sometimes been overcome with the use of more noble metal oxides such as that of Ru and Ir oxides. These oxides while they provide high activities still suffer from undesired dissolution thereby limiting the applicability of these systems. The lack of clearly defined catalyst sites in conjunction with catalyst degradation over time has often posed significant challenges to the deployment of such materials into cost effective electrolyzers. Currently RuIr oxides are used supported on a conductive titania. However the dissolution issues have not been completely identified understood and or mitigated. However the use of the methods of one embodiment to synthesize conductive oxides of the present invention offers a unique means to circumvent the use of noble metal oxides without suffering significant losses in activities. Also it provides clearly defined active sites which opens up new avenues for design of catalyst materials given the ability to achieve fundamental understanding regarding the catalytic mechanism. Such catalysts provide new flexibility where one can use an inert substrate such as Au or more active moderately stable substrate such as Ir. This helps to achieve significant OER activities with lower overall catalyst costs. Also design of core shell materials with the more noble metal species localized to the surfaces of the catalyst particles will further help in lowering the cost of these catalysts. Given that the active materials are 3d transition metal oxides the cost of these catalysts can then be significantly lowered without significant compromise in performance at all levels.

It has been observed that the HER on a Ni electrode modified by Ni OH nanoclusters is 4 times higher than on bare Ni surfaces thereby providing a means to enhance the activity of cost effective catalysts for alkaline electrolyzers. The HER results for IB group metals M Cu Ag Au as well for the Pt group metals M Ru Ir Pt and transition metals 3d TM Ni V Ti modified by Ni OH 2 was tested.

As summarized in variations of HER activities in acid and alkaline environments will simply be expressed as the measured overpotential at a constant current density. For clarity results will be clustered into three groups IB group metals Pt group metals and 3d TM.

Chemicals Alkaline solutions were prepared from respective alkali salts Multipharm Sigma Aldrich JT Baker and Alfa Aesar perchloric acid from concentrated HClO4 Sigma Aldrich and Milli Q de ionized DI water. Pt Ru Ir Au Ag Cu Ti metal electrodes were 4N purity and 6 mm in diameter.

The electrodes were prepared by radio frequency RF annealing at 1100 OC Pt Ru Ir 800 OC Au Ag Cu in a 3 H2 Ar gas mixture for 7 minutes. Ti was polished and de oxidized in strong acid prior to testing. The samples were transferred into the electrochemical cell with the surface protected with a drop of DI water and immersed under potential control at 0.05 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode RHE 

Ni OH modified electrodes were prepared by chemical deposition wherein the pristine electrode samples were immersed and equilibrated in 0.01 0.1M NiCl Sigma Aldrich solutions for 4 12 hrs and washed thoroughly before being introduced into the electrolyte. The procedure which was found to provide the desired oxide coverage was used for all the materials. The time for the final oxide coverage was achieved by observing no change in both the HER activities. Typical coverages of 30 40 were obtained based on the Hof the modified surface of Pt and Ir compared with that of the bare surfaces. Coverages on the surface of other elements are hard to detect electrochemically but preliminary XPS measurements reveal coverages ranging between 30 50 . No attempt was made to control the coverages due to the lack of well defined geometry or surface chemistry . The coverage can be controlled by modifying the surface geometry ad islands time of deposition concentration of deposition time of deposition and finally by changing the nature of the metal substrate.

A typical three electrode FEP cell was used to avoid contamination from glass components for the RDE measurements. Ag AgCl reference 0.96 V vs. RHE were used for electrochemical measurements. The counter electrodes used were Au Au Ag and Ti Cu for Cu and Pt Pt Ru Ir . The sweep rates used in the CV experiments were 50 mVsec 1 while the rotation rate was 1600 rpm. For the HOR and HER experiments the potential was swept in the cathodic direction from the hold potential the data presented is taken from first sweep curves. IR compensations were applied for all the data reported here. Experiments were controlled using an Autolab PGSTAT 302N potentiostat. The gases used were research grade 5N Ar and H2. The HER measurements were also performed at different scan rates 50 mV s 20 mV s 5 mV s with very little change in activity values reported. Also rotating ring disc electrode RRDE measurements were performed for various systems to quantify the HER currents. For the ring electrode with a collection efficiency of 21 the currents from the ring and disc electrodes confirmed that all the currents measured were from the hydrogen evolution reaction and the contributions from other side reactions were negligible.

In acid environments three distinct relationships are noteworthy i while there is no difference in the activities between Pt and Ir presumably due to similar metal Had energetics Ru is the least active either due to strong Ru Had interaction and or the presence of oxygenated species even in the HER potential region ii for the IB group elements the activity trends increase in order Au Ag Cu signaling that the HER activities may increase in the same order as the hydrogen adsorption energy on the IB group metals iii considering that in electrochemical environments all of the 3d TM elements are covered by oxides hydroxides with unknown stoichiometries in varying degrees the observed trends Ni V Ti may or may not correspond to the M Had energetics. inset illustrates 2 D representations of the mechanism involved with transformation of protons pH 1 and water pH 13 into H. IB group exhibits opposite trends in acid vs. alkaline solutions. Pt group metals show no discernible difference in acid solution between Ir and Pt but a much larger potential difference in alkaline solution. These differences are found to disappear when we compare the trends between acid and Ni OH M surfaces in alkaline confirming the role of water dissociation step. No clear understanding is possible for 3d transition metals due to the poorly defined surface properties of such materials which are often covered with oxide species. However given the HER activity is enhanced for all these metals with the introduction of Ni OH it is clear that the nature of the oxide species is important for the water dissociation step relevant for the HER.

Catalytic activity of the HER at high pH values can be simultaneously controlled by the M Had bond strength as well as by the energy required to dissociate water into H and OH. From it is believed that i activities in alkaline are significantly lower than in acid solutions consistent with the observed inferior activities of the HER in alkaline solution ii unlike in acidic media in alkaline solutions the activity increases in the order Ir Pt Ru suggesting that for a similar energy of hydrogen adsorption on Pt and Ir the rate of Volmer step is enhanced on more oxophilic Ir iii also the activity trend for the IB metals is inverse to one found in acids Cu Ag Au signaling that the rate of reaction may be controlled by the dissociation energy of water rather than by the adsorption energy of hydrogen and iv the order of activity of the 3d elements is the same as in acidic environments confirming that the nature as well as the coverage by surface oxides may be more important than the energy required for the water dissociation step. Based on these observations and keeping in mind that the M Had binding energy should be pH independent it is believed that the rate of the water dissociation step must provide an important contribution to the observed pH variations in activity trends. Consequently then for the catalysts with comparable M Had energetics improving the water dissociation step can improve the alkaline HER activities.

As noted above the electrocatalytic trend for the HER has been established on 3d TM OH Pt pseudo mono functional catalysts with Ni OH Pt having the highest activity. Here the bi functionality of Ni OH 3d TM can be transformed to a pseudo mono functional type of catalysts which is dependent on the substrate Had interaction akin to the acid HER. As shown in the Ni OH M surfaces are always more active 3 5 fold than on corresponding bare substrates. In turn this suggests that the edges of Ni OH clusters do promote the dissociation of water and the generated hydrogen is collected and recombined on the substrate sites at a rate similar to that in acid solutions. On the basis of this one should expect that reactivity trends on Ni OH M catalysts should be very similar to one observed in acidic solutions. Indeed the trends for the HER on IB metals established in acid solution are re established in alkaline solutions on surfaces modified by Ni OH Au Cu Ag implying that the rates are controlled again by the M Had energetics. Furthermore there is no discernible difference in activity between Ni OH Pt and Ni OH Ir indicating that as in acid solution the HER is almost completely controlled by a similar hydrogen adsorption energy on these two surfaces.

Finally the overpotentials for the HER on Ni OH 3d TM is significantly smaller depending on the nature of 3d elements ranging from 0.2 to 0.5 V. It is believed that Ni OH 2 serves to enhance the water dissociation step it does do so on IB group metals and Pt group metals and its ability is superior to that of the native oxide species present on the 3d TM surfaces. The presence of Ni OH on these 3d TM systems was confirmed by analyzing X ray absorption spectra XAS for the Ni OH N system. To determine the presence of the oxide species on the Ni electrode ex situ X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS analysis was performed. These results reveal two chemical states the metallic state at 852 eV 2p and 869 eV 2p and the oxide state characterized by the binding energy of 855 eV 2p . Although XPS methods are not surface sensitive it may indicate that on the Ni electrode there are some metal sites that in turn may serve to collect and recombine the hydrogen atoms produced from the water dissociation step on Ni OH 2 through a similar bifunctional mechanism.

In certain embodiments it is important to tailor the active sites for the HER in alkaline solutions. Ag and Cu have unique advantages due to the relatively low affinity toward formation of hydrides over long term operations while Ni offers the highest activity. Importantly the results for the HER on Ag Cu and Ni modified by Ni OH 2 reveal that the activities of these surfaces nearly match those in acid solutions on un modified electrodes. Furthermore the activity of Ni OH 2 Ni is enhanced by a factor of 4 vs. the Ni OH 2 free Ni surfaces confirming that the nature of oxide species on the surface is critical. Thus for some hydroxide modified metal surfaces the HER can be made even more active in alkaline solutions than in acid environments. This is particularly relevant for Ni Ni alloys and Raney Ni which are used as commercial catalysts in alkaline environments. Extending the bi functional approach to such systems will in turn help further toward bridging the gap between noble and nonnoble HER metal catalysts especially with the possibility of using higher loading of non noble materials. For the HER in alkaline medium there is a synergy between the effectiveness of the catalyst to break water molecules and to efficiently form hydrogen that subsequently can be adsorbed and associated on metal surfaces.

The elements are arranged in the order of their oxophillicity from Mn to Ni. Pt is shown in the figure as a reference. Top inset a comparison of the polarization curves Pt 111 and Pt 111 with 40 Cohydr oxy oxides for the CO oxidation reaction. As can clearly be seen the onseen potentials CO oxidation are shifted 300 mV negative from those of the bare Pt 111 surface. Bottom inset a schematic showing the L H mechanism for the CO oxidation reaction. CO from bulk is found to absorb on the free Pt site near the oxide clusters. OHis formed by either adsorption of OH from the electrolyte and or a change in oxidation state of the cluster cation M. In the presence of COand OHin each others vicinity reaction between COand OHspecies the occurs forming an intermediate which is eventually converted to bi carbonates. The free energy Pt COis fixed which enables the treatment of these bi functional metal oxide metal catalysts as a pseudo mono functional catalyst with a singular descriptor OH M

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

