---

title: Method of generating hydrogen-storing hydride complexes
abstract: A ternary hydrogen storage system having a constant stoichiometric molar ratio of LiNH:MgH:LiBHof 2:1:1. It was found that the incorporation of MgHparticles of approximately 10 nm to 20 nm exhibit a lower initial hydrogen release temperature of 150° C. Furthermore, it is observed that the particle size of LiBNH quaternary hydride has a significant effect on the hydrogen sorption concentration with an optimum size of 28 nm. The as-synthesized hydrides exhibit two main hydrogen release temperatures, one around 160° C. and the other around 300° C., with the main hydrogen release temperature reduced from 310° C. to 270° C., while hydrogen is first reversibly released at temperatures as low as 150° C. with a total hydrogen capacity of 6 wt. % to 8 wt. %. Detailed thermal, capacity, structural and microstructural properties have been demonstrated and correlated with the activation energies of these materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08440100&OS=08440100&RS=08440100
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08440100
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120316
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 407 116 entitled Hydrogen Storage Hydride Complexes filed on Mar. 19 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 037 869 entitled Methods and Processes for Producing Complex Hydrides Exhibiting High Hydrogen Storage Capacity and Fast Sorption Kinetics at Moderate Temperatures filed on Mar. 19 2008 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. DE FG36 04GO14224 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to hydrogen storage applications. More specifically this invention relates to complex hydride materials composed of light weight elements or compounds for hydrogen storage applications.

The main source of the energy for 150 years has been fossil fuels. The United States and virtually every other country in the world depend almost exclusively on fossil fuel powered transportation. Planes trains automobiles and other engine powered devices operate by burning petroleum products such as gasoline and diesel fuel. Fossil fuel however is a finite resource. According to some projections its sources will begin to decline in rate of delivery as early as 2010. Currently the loss of a reliable supply of fossil fuel would have a devastating effect on the whole of western society. For example people would not be able to travel to work factories would not be able to transport their products and emergency services could not be delivered.

Additionally petroleum fuels must be harvested stored processed and transported. These steps have led to accidents that severely damage the earth s environment. Even minor oil spills which happen rather frequently are deadly to wildlife detrimental to human health costly and difficult to clean. Petroleum fuels emit polluting by products such carbon dioxide CO and carbon monoxide CO nitrogen oxides NO the main source of urban smog and unburned hydrocarbons the main source of urban ozone. All of these chemicals have been medically proven to be detrimental to human health. In big cities and other largely populated areas poor air quality can have a profoundly accelerated damaging effect on human health.

There is consensus that the search for alternative clean and renewable energy should be a prerogative in the near future Arunachalam V. S. Fleischer E. L. MRS Bulletin 2008 33 264 . Engineers and scientists have been working hard trying to find other sources of energy that they can use to replace gasoline. The world has many renewable resources such as sunlight wind rain tides and geothermal heat which is naturally replenished. One of the many options is to use hydrogen as a fuel Crabtree G. W. Dresselhaus M. S. MRS Bulletin 2008 33 421 . Of particular interest is hydrogen fueled automobiles.

Hydrogen provided it is produced using clean and renewable energy sources such as solar energy can either be combusted in an internal combustion engine or used in a fuel cell Fontes E. Nilsson E. Industrial Physicist 2001 7 14 Stefanakos E. K. Goswami D. Y. Srinivasan S. S. Wolan J. T. Hydrogen Energy. In Environmentally Conscious Alternative Energy Production Kutz Myer Eds. John Wiley Sons Inc. 2007 pp 165 to produce energy free of any pollutant by products producing solely energy and water. Though there are many barriers towards realizing a hydrogen economy one of the biggest challenges is to find a safe and efficient means of storing the hydrogen for use in mobile applications Satyapal S. Petrovic J. Thomas G. Scientific American 2007 296 80 . Many of the major automobile manufacturers including GM Chrysler Ford and Toyota are already involved in research and development investing millions of dollars to find an optimum hydrogen storage system for fuel cell car range of 300 miles. However widespread use of hydrogen has been limited due to devices with adequate storage capacity cost weight and environmental safety for fuel cell based vehicular applications.

Current options include storing hydrogen in its liquid form or as a compressed gas. Both methods require a large amount of energy and can pose serious safety risks. Therefore there is a push to find a material to chemically store hydrogen using for example metal hydrides Schlapbach L. Zuttel A. Nature 2001 414 353 or complex hydrides Grochala W. Edwards P. P. Chemical Reviews 2004 104 1283 .

There are however many challenges that these materials must overcome. Specifically these are to have fast kinetics a high capacity e.g. more than 6 wt. hydrogen and to be reusable for at least 1000 cycles Satyapal S. Petrovic J. Read C. Thomas G. Ordaz G. Catalysis Today 2007 120 246 . Advanced complex hydrides that are light weight low cost and have high hydrogen density are essential for on board vehicular storage Biniwale R. B. Rayalu S. Devotta S. Ichikawa M. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2008 33 360 David E. Journal of Materials Processing Technology 2005 162 163 169 Guo Z. X. Shang C. Aguey Zinsou K. F. Journal of the European Ceramic Society 2008 28 1467 Nijkamp M. G. Raaymakers J. E. M. J. van Dillen A. J. de Jong K. P. Applied Physics A Materials Science Processing 2001 72 619 Principi G. Agresti F. Maddalena A. Lo Russo S. Energy In Press Corrected Proof Ross D. K. Vacuum 2006 80 1084 Zhou L. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 2005 9 395 Z ttel A. Materials Today 2003 6 24 . Some of the complex hydrides such as catalyst doped alanates Ahluwalia R. K. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2007 32 1251 Eigen N. Gosch F. Dornheim M. Klassen T. Bormann R. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2008 465 310 Haiduc A. G. Stil H. A. Schwarz M. A. Paulus P. Geerlings J. J. C. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2005 393 252 Sterlin Leo Hudson M. Pukazhselvan D. Irene Sheeja G. Srivastava O. N. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2007 32 4933 Zheng X. Qu X. Humail I. S. Li P. Wang G. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2007 32 1141 Zattel A. Wenger P. Sudan P. Mauron P. Orimo S. i. Materials Science and Engineering B 2004 108 9 alanes Walters R. T. Scogin J. H. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2004 379 135 amide Chen P. Xiong Z. Luo J. Lin J. Tan K. L. Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2003 107 10967 borohydrides Vajo J. J. Skeith S. L. Mertens F. J. Phys. Chem. 2005 109 3719 magnesium based hydrides Dornheim M. Doppiu S. Barkhordarian G. Boesenberg U. Klassen T. Gutfleisch O. Bormann R. Scripta Materialia 2007 56 841 and mixed complex hydrides Nakamori Y. Ninomiya A. Kitahara G. Aoki M. Noritake T. Miwa K. Kojima Y. Orimo S. Journal of Power Sources 2006 155 447 have been recently reported with improved hydrogen storage characteristics.

Hydrogen storage technology is essential for any hydrogen based transportation system. The development of improved hydrogen storage materials will solve a major storage issue which at present is an impediment for a future hydrogen based economy. This hydrogen storage materials development technology will make the use of hydrogen fuel cells feasible as a long term solution for transportation. This will also provide a solution to various issues related to the present fossil fuels gasoline coal etc. in particular it will i protect the earth s atmosphere from the greenhouse gas emissions ii provide an alternative clean fuel to replace the current depleting gasoline iii provide energy security and iv offer pollution free living based on zero emission vehicular transportation for healthy living.

The present inventors have found that special processing conditions involving mechano chemical mixing of LiBH LiNH MgHexhibit superior reversible hydrogen storage characteristics at moderate temperatures. Solid state synthesis pertaining to destabilization of LiBHand LiBH LiNH Chater P. A. Anderson P. A. Prendergast J. W. Walton A. Mann V. S. J. Book D. David W. I. F. Johnson S. R. Edwards P. P. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2007 446 447 350 with MgHhas been found to enhance the reversible hydrogen storage characteristics. The multinary complex hydride Li Mg B N H possesses a theoretical hydrogen capacity of approximately 8 10 wt. .

Prior hydrogen storage has been reported to reach only about 3 wt. of reversible hydrogen release between 160 200 C. Lewis G. J. Sachtler J. W. A. Low J. J. Lesch D. A. Faheem S. A. Dosek P. M. Knight L. M. Halloran L. Jensen C. M. Yang J. Sudik A. Siegel D. J. Wolverton C. Ozolins V. Zhang S. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2007 446 447 355 Yang J. Sudik A. Siegel D. J. Halliday D. Drews A. Carter Iii R. O. Wolverton C. Lewis G. J. Sachtler J. W. A. Low J. J. Faheem S. A. Lesch D. A. Ozolins V. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 2007 446 447 345 . It was reported that the MgHacts as a catalyst and assists in self catalyzing the material to release hydrogen with three main reactions 175 C. 2LiBNH 3MgH 3LiMg NH 2LiBH 6H 1 200 C. Mg NH 2LiH LiMg NH 2H 2 300 C. 3LiMg NH 2LiBH 2LiBN MgN 2LiH 6H 3 

This invention provides specially prepared complex composite hydride materials for hydrogen storage applications. An inexpensive simple efficient and solid state synthesis process of mechano chemically prepared complex hydrides under specific conditions has resulted in an improvement in the hydrogen storage properties such as hydrogen storage capacity and fast sorption kinetics. This invention leads to synthesis of multi phase complex composite hydride materials with significantly improved performance and tailor made thermodynamic properties. Additionally the mechano chemical approach of synthesizing complex hydride materials can be easily scaled up for a commercial manufacturing process providing hydrogen storage materials with superior kinetics high hydrogen storage capacity light weight elements and or compounds low cost and environmental safety.

Mechano chemical synthesis has been carried out by mixing of LiBH 2LiNH MgHor similar stoichiometries and ball milling. Intermittent reactive gas purging using Ar 95 H 5 was performed intermittently during the entire mechano chemical process to obtain mixtures with a new structural phase complex hydrides having finer nano sized particulates. The processing times in milling were found to have no effect on the physical structure of LiBNH MgH but drastically altered the capacity hydrogen release temperatures and microstructure of the composition. Finally particle size was found to be very important to hydrogen storage and release. Excellent reversible cycling capacity of about 6 8 wt. was reproducibly obtained with operating hydrogenation temperature and pressure varying from 150 250 C. and 60 80 bars respectively. Hydrogen absorption and desorption tests show rapid kinetics with 90 of hydrogen either absorbed or desorbed in less than 10 minutes.

Hydrogen storage materials involving combinations of hydride compounds such as LiBHwith MgH see for example JP20050229790 U.S. Pub. No. 2005 0916 or LiBHand LiNHwith Mg powders e.g. CN20061118471 U.S. Pub. No. 2006 1117 or even more generally AHwith MH which includes LiBHwith LiNH e.g. U.S. Pub. No. 2007 0264182 provide a means for on board hydrogen storage.

Combining LiBH LiNHand MgHusing mechano chemical methods creates a new phase of material by i combining the materials in various stoichiometries ii using various process gases before and during milling and or iii subsequently adding nano sized dopants of materials such as Ni Fe Co Cu Mn Zn Sn Ti Ag and carbon nanotubes with varying concentrations and possible with co addition of any combination of these materials before a final milling step. The process gas during the mechano chemical milling includes hydrogen argon nitrogen and combinations thereof. The milling speed and duration varies from 100 rpm to 500 rpm and from 10 minutes to 12 hours respectively. The milling process can be preceded by a gas purge and can be interrupted by a gas purge for a time of 5 minutes to 1 hour. The amount of material and type size and quantity of balls inside the mill can be varied as well. The gas purge and the addition of the nano sized dopants as well as the combination of the three main constituents LiBH LiNHand MgH which may be obtained from chemical suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich are important features provided by the present invention relative to the technology in the aforementioned publications and other previous technologies.

In one aspect this invention provides a process of producing a complex material for hydrogen storage particularly a combination of LiNH LiBH MgH and with or without an additive or combinations of nano sized dopant materials such as Ni Fe Zn carbon nanotubes CNTs Mn Co Cu Sn and other materials by using a mechano chemical process. The influence of catalyst doping during the mechano chemical processing using nano sized additives such as Ni Co Mn and Fe enhances the rates of dehydrogenation or decomposition of hydrogen from the host matrix and lowers the hydrogen decomposition temperature of Li Mg B N H. The material is able to reversibly store hydrogen with concentrations of as much as 11 wt Hat varying temperatures depending on the amount and type of additive as well as the processing conditions employed.

A reversible hydrogen storage composition with storage capacity of 5 6 wt. was achieved at 150 C. in the multinary complex hydrides comprising LiBH LiNHand MgH. Various processing conditions and optimization strategies were adapted to prepare these complex hydrides in a solid state. A gas mixture comprising Ar H 95 5 was used as a milling environment. It was found that this Ar Hmix and not argon or nitrogen or hydrogen was essential to keeping the material hydrided and to prevent particle agglomeration. Among the various reaction pathways the pre processed quaternary hydride LiBNH ad mixed with either bulk or nanocrystalline MgH LiBNH cMgHand LiBNH nMgH milled for 5 hours shows pronounced hydrogen storage characteristics in reversible sorption cycles and lower activation energy of 145 148 kJ mole at 300 C. Irrespective of the processing scheme employed it was found that all samples were intimate mixtures of LiBNH with MgHand that no new chemical compound was formed. It was found that the samples prepared with nano MgHexhibited MgHparticle sizes of approximately 10 nm as compared to sizes of 35 nm to 75 nm for those samples prepared with commercial MgH. The small MgHparticles enable the sample to release hydrogen at temperatures as low as 150 C. as compared to 175 C. for the larger MgHparticles. Furthermore it was found that the size of the LiBNH particles plays an important role on the hydrogen concentration. If the LiBNH particles have a size of approximately 28 nm and the MgHparticles are approximately within 19 nm 13 nm to 43 nm of this size and between 12 and 19 nm the highest possible hydrogen concentration is achieved. When the MgHand LiBNH particles are either too similar in size as in the case of the LicMgBNH sample 3.3 nm difference or if they are too different in size as in the case of the 10 hr LicMgBNH sample 32.9 nm difference the hydrogen concentration of the sample is reduced. The structural microstructural and thermal desorption and activation energy calculations of all processed materials as tabulated in cumulatively suggest that synergistic effects of destabilization nanocrystallization and process optimization lead to high hydrogen capacity materials.

As used herein the term nanocrystalline is used to refer to a pre process of mechano chemical milling of commercial MgHunder Ar H 95 5 atmosphere for at least 10 15 hours.

The term nano MgH refers to magnesium hydride compositions of about 10 nm. In some embodiments the nano MgHis created by milling of MgH and optionally may be milled in an argon hydrogen atmosphere as stated above.

As used herein the term milling or mechano chemical milling means planetary ball milling. The superimposition of the centrifugal forces from the grinding jar rotation and the common axis of the sun wheel produce high pulverization energy that is utilized to reduce the size of the compositions and results in restructuring of some compounds such as with LiBHand LiNH. As the rotational movement increases Coriolis forces act on balls in the grinding jar displacing them from the grinding jar walls. The balls fly through the grinding jar interior and impact against the sample on the opposite grinding jar wall. Speed differences between the balls and grinding jars produce an interaction between frictional and impact forces releasing high dynamic energies. Differences occur between the speed of the grinding jar wall and the balls resulting in strong frictional forces acting on the sample. The performance and the results obtained are determined by the choice of grinding jar and the balls with which it is filled. The selection depends on sample volume and sample fineness that is to be achieved and degree of purity required. Fine size reduction requires the use of small balls. The balls may be made of any known material in the art however exemplary materials include agate silicon nitride sintered corundum tungsten carbide tempered chrome steel hardened steel stainless steel zirconium oxide and sintered aluminum oxide. Grinding sets made from the high performance ceramics sintered corundum and zirconium oxide with their high abrasion resistance offer a long working life combined with minimal abrasion. Higher ball material density results in higher pulverization energy. As abrasion is frequently unavoidable during size reduction the material for the grinding jars and balls should be selected so as to minimize interference to the subsequent analysis.

Multinary hydrides were synthesized from a quaternary composition of LiBHand LiNH with ad mixing of nano MgH. The parent compounds LiBHand LiNH Sigma Aldrich purity of at least 95 and MgH Alfa Aesar purity of 98 were kept in an inert atmosphere in a glove box and used without further purification. The investigated samples were created in 4 g batches with a constant molar ratio of 2LiNH LiBH MgH while taking into account the purity of the parent compounds by employing high energy ball milling Planetary mill PULVERISETTE 6 Fritsch GmbH Idar Oberstein Germany for 5 hours at 300 rpm with intermittent hydrogen argon 5 95 purges for 20 minutes before milling and after 2 and 4 hours. This was done to ensure that as little hydrogen as possible was released during the milling process and to reduce the agglomeration of the hydride that occurs when pure hydrogen is used as compared to the hydrogen argon mixture. The MgHwas either added as received or was added as a nano MgH. The nano MgH nMgH was created by ball milling the commercial MgH cMgH for 12 hours with intermittent hydrogen argon purges every 2 hours.

This ensured the reduction of particle size as well as the decrease in hydrogen release temperature as previously reported Zaluska A. Zaluski L. Str m Olsen J. O. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 1999 288 217 . The two main processing schemes that were used are shown in and . The first processing scheme was to add all parent compounds and mill for 5 or 10 hours using either commercial or nano MgH which served as a reference material. The second processing scheme was to first create the quaternary structure LiBNH by milling LiBHwith 2LiNHfor five hours and then adding either commercial or nano MgH after which the quaternary and the MgHwere milled for an additional 5 hours. All milling was carried out in an inert atmosphere and the samples were purged with the hydrogen argon mixture every 2 hours. In total five different samples were created. The samples are referred to in this document according to the naming convention shown in the bold boxes of and .

The surface morphology of the milled samples was characterized using scanning electron microscopy SEM Hitachi S800 . The samples were compressed into pellet form under constant pressure within the glove box and then transported to the SEM in a vacuum desiccator to minimize exposure to air and moisture. The structural phase identification and average crystallite size determination were characterized using X ray diffraction Philips X Pert diffractometer . All samples were again pressed into pellet form in the glove box and sealed with Parafilm Pechiney Plastic Packaging Company to minimize exposure to the elements. Zero background Silicon disc 32 mm GEMS Dugout Pennsylvania USA was used for this purpose. Thermal programmed desorption Quantachrome Autosorb 1C with TCD option was used to determine the hydrogen release temperature as well as the activation energy of the milled samples using Kissinger s method Kissinger H. E. Journal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards 1956 57 217 . Hydrogen sorption measurements were carried out on a Sievert s type apparatus HyEnergy PCT Pro 2000 with isothermal conditions ranging from room temperature up to 250 C. and with a hydrogen pressure varying from low vacuum to 80 bars. The samples were not investigated at temperature above 250 C. as a temperature that high is impractical for use in mobile applications. Both kinetic and pressure dependent hydrogen sorption measurements PCT were performed.

X Ray Diffraction XRD was performed to compare the patterns of the five differently processed complex hydrides seen in . The parent compounds LiBH LiNH as well as both commercial and nano MgHare in the lower half of the figure as a reference. The peak around 21 C. is from the Parafilm used to protect the samples during measurement. Neither LiBHnor LiNHpeaks are observed in any of the five samples. This confirms that these two materials are fully consumed during the milling process and actually form a new quaternary structure referred to as LiBNH.

The quaternary structure has been reported to be LiBNH Pinkerton F. E. Meisner G. P. Meyer M. S. Balogh M. P. Kundrat M. D. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2005 109 6 . The addition of commercial MgHdoes not cause the formation of a new complex structure but instead indicates that the quaternary structure is preserved while the MgHsimply intermixes with the material. When the nano MgHis added to LiBHand LiNHor to the quaternary LiBNH the MgHpeaks are barely picked up by the XRD. This indicates that the small size of the MgHcauses the material to intermix and fill voids of the quaternary structure which results in a nanocrystalline particle distribution while still preserving the quaternary structure formed by the LiNHand LiBH. All samples are a physical rather than a chemical mixture of the quaternary structure LiBNH with MgH.

Upon producing the complex hydrides each sample was characterized for its thermal characteristics using thermal programmed desorption. TPD with a heating rate of 1 5 10 and 15 C. min. As compared to the quaternary structure the multinary structure containing MgHshowed a 3 step hydrogen release mechanism as is shown in . TPD analysis confirms a 3 step release for the LicMgBNH sample that has been reported but also shows that the processing condition of the material does have an effect on the thermal decomposition characteristics. The first hydrogen release peaks between 153.3 C. for LiBNH nMgHand 165.2 C. for LinMgBNH which is a relatively small difference in temperature. When investigating the second or main peak of the various samples as seen in it is interesting to note that the temperature range for main hydrogen release varies from 287 C. for the 10 hr LicMgBNH and 306.6 C. for LinMgBNH.

The activation energy of each sample was experimentally determined using Kissinger s method based on TPD data taken at 1 5 10 15 C. min for the two peaks and correlated to the hydrogen release temperature. When investigating the first peak around 160 C. it is interesting to note that the 10 hr LicMgBNH sample has the lowest activation energy 109.8 kJ mole at 157.7 C. as seen in but LiBNH nMgHhas the lowest peak hydrogen release temperature 153.3 C. seen in . Although these samples exhibit comparable decomposition temperatures their activation energies vary by 20 kJ mole. A plausible reason is that the reaction pathways of ad mixing MgHwith the starting materials in the first place 10 hr LicMgBNH or after the quaternary formation LiBNH nMgH proceeds with fine distribution of nanocrystalline MgHin the host matrix of multinary hydrides. It has been recently claimed that the nanocrystallization of MgHhas significant impact on lowering the enthalpy of formation and enhancement of the reaction kinetics Berube V. Chen G. Dresselhaus M. S. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 2008 33 4122 Niemann M. U. Srinivasan S. S. Phani A. R. Kumar A. Goswami D. Y. Stefanakos E. K. Journal of Nanomaterials 2008 doi 10.1155 2008 950967 9 pages . The high temperature main hydrogen release peak 300 C. for all the processed materials and the reference LiBNH quaternary hydride are shown in . While comparing the activation energies and decomposition temperatures of all the samples it can be clearly inferred that the quaternary hydrides LiBNH combined with either commercial LiBNH cMgH or nanocrystalline MgH LiBNH nMgH milled for 5 hours show lower values e.g. 145 148 kJ mole at 300 C. At this juncture it is slightly difficult to justify from which sample or the processed material possesses an optimum hydrogen release characteristic at these two main decompositions. Again it is undoubtedly clear that both the steps occur at two different temperature regimes such as 160 and 300 C. for drive off the hydrogen either surface adsorbed or bulk absorbed species. At the low temperature first step hydrogen release the nano MgHacts as a self catalyst to speed up the reaction with 10 hr LicMgBNH and LiBNH nMgHmaterials demonstrating lower activation energies seen in . On the other hand in the high temperature main hydrogen release seen in temperature of 300 C. act as a driving force to release hydrogen from the bulk structures of both LicMgBNH and LinMgBNH milled only for 5 hours. Hence these materials exhibit lower activation energies that are comparable to pristine LiBNH. Based on the detailed analysis it was concluded that an additional 5 hours of ball milling either of the all in one hydride 10 hr LicMgBNH or the quaternary nanocrystalline hydride mixture LiBNH nMgH will alter the decomposition characteristics especially the activation energy which is very vital for hydrogen storage.

Pressure Composition Temperature PCT isotherms were determined for the multinary complex hydrides created with different processing conditions seen in . The dehydrogenation PCT of LiBNH quaternary hydride is plotted for reference. The PCT studies of the multinary samples are carried out under the following conditions temperature T 150 175 C. pressure difference between aliquots P 3 bars absorption pressure limit P 80 bars desorption pressure limit P 0bar and reservoir volume V 160 cm. Since all these samples are in hydride phases the dehydrogenation experiment was followed by the rehydrogenation for at least 10 hours. The PCT characteristics and their observations are given with respect to the sample processing conditions as follows.

The dehydrogenation capacity of quaternary hydride LiBNH was determined to be 4 wt. at 250 C. A two step plateau pressure region P low plateau at P

The multinary complex hydrides LicMgBNH and LinMgBNH processed with either commercial or nanocrystalline MgHand milled all in one for 5 hours reveal reproducible hydrogen capacity of 3 4 wt. . It is noteworthy to mention that LinMgBNH possesses at least 1 wt. higher capacity and 25 C. reduction in temperature as compared to the LicMgBNH counterpart. This could be achieved because of the uniform distribution of fine MgHnanoparticles that might act as catalytic centers for lowering the hydrogen dissociation temperatures. Yet another difference between these two processed materials is the tailoring of the plateau pressure hydrogen hydride equilibrium region which is crucial for a hydrogen storage system to be viable for mobile applications. The LinMgBNH material exhibits reduction in the absorption plateau pressure by 20 bars in contrast to the LicMgBNH due to nanoparticulate formation.

A greater reversible hydrogen storage capacity of 5.3 5.8 wt. was found for LiBNH cMgHand LiBNH nMgH i e the quaternary hydrides LiBNH either milled with commercial or nano MgHfor 5 hours at temperatures of 150 C. to 175 C. The nano MgHloaded LiBNH outperformed its commercial counterpart with a higher hydrogen capacity of 5.8 wt. at 150 C. as compared to 175 C. There exist inflections of plateau pressure regions however they are not as clearly defined as the LicMgBNH and LinMgBNH samples. Moreover the sorption plateau of these samples resembles greatly the pristine LiBNH that is the precursor material for the multinary hydride formation confirming XRD data. Overall it is unambiguously claimed that LiBNH admixed either with commercial or nano MgHand milled for 5 hours exhibits a high reversible hydrogen storage capacity of 6 wt. at temperatures less than 175 C. Moreover the reversible hydrogen release storage characteristics have been confirmed and reproducibly obtained in these complex multinary structures performed by South West Research Institute SWRI Texas an independent validation center operated by the U.S. Department of Energy. The extended milling duration of 10 hours for the three component systems 2LiNH cMgH LiBHand labeled 10 hr LicMgBNH show poor hydrogen performance as depicted in . A low hydrogen desorption capacity of 2 wt a low plateau pressure region of less than 5 bars with less or no reversibility was obtained in this material. The crystallite agglomeration or the amorphous phase during the prolonged milling is expected to be the limiting factor for the absence of plateau and decrease in the overall hydrogen storage capacity.

Excellent reversible cycling capacity of about 6 8 wt. was reproducibly obtained with operating hydrogenation temperature and pressure varying from 150 250 C. and 60 80 bars respectively. Hydrogen absorption and desorption tests show rapid kinetics with 90 of hydrogen either absorbed or desorbed in less than 10 minutes as depicted in .

To better understand the hydrogen performance of the differently processed materials the hydrogen capacity was investigated with respect to the particle sizes of the quaternary phase LiBNH and the MgH. The particle sizes were calculated from the XRD data seen in of each material using Scherrer s method Scherrer P. Goettinger Nachrichten 1918 2 98 . The initial particle sizes of LiNH LiBH MgH nano MgHand LiBNH were determined to be 138 nm 152 nm 212 nm 27 nm and 60 nm respectively. As seen from the nano size MgHhas an effect on the initial hydrogen release temperature. Both samples synthesized with nano MgHrelease hydrogen at 150 C. as compared to 175 C. for all the other samples which were synthesized with its commercial counterpart. The MgHparticle size for the nano MgHsamples are both approximately 10 nm whereas the particle size of the commercial MgHsamples vary from 35 nm to 75 nm as seen in . It is important to note that the particle size of both MgHand LiBNH are largest for the 10 hr LicMgBNH sample which explains the poor hydrogen performance of the sample since it is well known that larger particles and therefore a smaller surface area correspond to poorer hydrogen performance less than 2 wt. capacity . A milling duration of more than 5 hours is in fact counterproductive and allows for the particle size to increase as both the LiBNH and MgHparticles agglomerate. When looking at the correlation between particle size and hydrogen concentration as shown in it becomes evident that the size of the LiBNH particles plays an important role on the hydrogen concentration. If the LiBNH particles have a size of approximately 28 nm and the MgHparticles are approximately within 15 nm 13 nm to 43 nm of this size the highest possible hydrogen concentration is achieved 5.5 wt. . When the MgHand LiBNH particles are either too similar in size as in the case for the LicMgBNH sample 3.3 nm difference or if they are too different in size as in the case for the 10 hr LicMgBNH sample 32.9 nm difference the hydrogen concentration of the sample is reduced.

To perform SEM imaging of the surface morphology the samples were pressed into pellet form with a uniform thickness and pressure. The SEM images at 2 200 magnification are shown in for the five main samples. and show the two samples that were milled for a total duration of 5 hours. The sample prepared using the commercial MgH seen in contains visibly larger particles than the sample prepared using nano MgH seen in is due mainly to the fact that the commercial MgH which does not form a chemical bond with the quaternary structure but instead is intermixed with the material is made up of larger particles than the nano MgH. When the sample is milled for 10 hours as seen in the material is composed of uniformly agglomerated nanoparticles. This is surely due to the fact that the commercial MgHhas enough time upon formation of the quaternary structure to be ground into smaller particles and then given enough time to coalesce. When MgHwas added to the quaternary structure LiBNH the commercial MgHproduced comparable particle size distribution seen in to the sample containing nano MgH seen in .

The effect of nanomaterial doping was tested in the complex hydride LiBNH nMgH. Each nanomaterial doped hydride was characterized by TPD for its thermal characteristics. As with the multinary structure containing MgH a 3 step hydrogen release mechanism is evident as is shown in . TPD analysis indicates that the material doping has a marked effect on the thermal decomposition characteristics both increasing hydrogen decomposition of both the hydrogen release peaks and reducing the temperature of the third hydrogen release. The first hydrogen release peaks between 153.3 C. for LiBNH nMgHand the nanoiron nanonickel nanocopper and nanomanganese doped LiBNH nMgHcompositions and 162 C. for the nanocobalt doped LiBNH nMgHcomposition seen in . Investigating the second or main peak of the various samples temperatures range for main hydrogen release vary from 210 C. for the nanocobalt doped LiBNH nMgHto about 288 C. LiBNH nMgH. Interestingly the nanocobalt nanoiron and nanomanganese doped LiBNH nMgHsamples possessed hydrogen release that greatly surpassed that of the parent LiBNH nMgHcomposition while also reducing the temperature required for the release by as much as almost 80 C.

A PEM fuel cell system was designed to test the transfer of hydrogen from a high pressure tank to low pressure metal hydride tank. Coupling devices Swagelok Co. Solon Ohio made of stainless steel that could withstand high pressure over 5000 psig were used. These devices are also capable of transporting flammable gases such as hydrogen. A metal hydride tank 20 standard L connected to a remote controlled car was activated by exposing the composition to hydrogen. This causes the metal hydride to act as a sponge for hydrogen sorption. To activate this metal hydride the tanks were connected to hydrogen source and a low pressure regulator set to thirty bar 435 psig . After waiting 80 minutes the pressure was released to about ten bar 100 psig and increased the hydrogen pressure back to thirty bars. This process was repeated four times. After activation was complete the tanks were refueled and reconnected to the fluid system with the low pressure reading set to 30 bars. After thirty minutes the tank was disconnected.

The remote control car was tested by connecting a hydrogen fuel cell to the car. The car successfully ran and performed similarly to a battery powered remote control car. It was also observed that the hydrogen fueled car lasted for about 1 hour with average voltage output of this fuel cell is 6 V whereas the battery powered car lasted only 30 minutes with six AA batteries 9V . However the low voltage output caused the car to perform slower with fuel cell as seen in . Hydrogen total amount and flow rate could be determined by measuring volumetric water displacement method. Data was recorded every 50 ml till 1 liter was reached in six separate trials to assure accuracy. The rate of voltage and current produced from the fuel cell was determined as seen in . A minor problem was noted in the adequate flow rate from the Htanks. To produce a constant flow rate of H the metal hydride tank required heat since hydrogen release from metal hydrides associated with endothermic process. The Hflow caused the tank to cool making it difficult to maintain an ambient temperature.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a hydrogen storage composition it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

