---

title: Method for underwater environmental energy transfer with a long lead zirconate titanate transducer
abstract: The invention as disclosed is an underwater based electric energy production method. A cable having a piezoelectric core is attached on one end thereof to a floating buoy and on the other end thereof to an anchor. The system is deployed in the water such that the cable extends vertically through a water column. Movement of the cable due to water current generates electric power that can be harvested and stored. The floating buoy can be at or near the water's surface and the anchor can but need not rest on the sea floor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08338972&OS=08338972&RS=08338972
owner: The United State of America as represented by the Secretary of Navy
number: 08338972
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120702
---
This application is a divisional of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 683 503 filed on 7 Jan. 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 274 167 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 121 of the prior application s filing date.

This patent application is with the following related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 683 503 by the same inventor Derke R. Hughes.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to underwater based electric energy production systems. In particular the present invention is directed to a system for generating power from a lead zirconate titanate sonar transducer.

The main mission for a long sonar transducer is the generation of certain acoustic tones in the ocean. One feature of lead zirconate titanate material is the voltage generation produced when this material is stressed. By taking advantage of this material property the prospect exists for a long lead zirconate titanate transducer to become a power harvesting unit in an extended life capacity. By creating a trickle charging device the mission life of dipping sonar or an airdropped transceiver could be extended. What is needed is a long transducer between ten and three hundred meters long for environmental energy transfer that acquires energy from the ocean waves by bobbing on the water surface with a buoy and anchor system that vibrates at the strumming frequency generated by underwater currents thereby generating power wherein the power can then be regulated by an alternating current to direct current converter and voltage regulator and captured by charging a battery such as a nickel cadmium battery.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to generate power from a sonar transducer that has a long lead zirconate titanate core within a cable such as an armored cable used in towed array systems.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of a long lead zirconate titanate cable for underwater environmental energy transfer which acquires energy from the underwater currents by surrounding the long lead zirconate titanate cable with an armored cable and attaching it to a buoy and anchor system. As the buoy bobs on the water the lead zirconate titanate core experiences vibrations from underwater currents. These vibrations cause the lead zirconate titanate core to generate electrical power that is captured and regulated.

Referring to there is illustrated a buoy floating on the surface of the ocean or a large body of water and an anchor resting on the floor of the ocean or large body of water and used to keep the tension on a long from 10 to 300 meters lead zirconate titanate core within a cable such as a reinforced armored tow cable used in towed arrays such that a fixed string configuration embodies a mathematical representation for the transducer cable system . The vertical configuration is adjustable to generate a variety of levels of energy because the draft on the anchor and buoy are regulated to produce different amounts of tension on the cable based on the predetermined environmental conditions of the associated currents and sea states. In one embodiment regulation of the tension can be accomplished through the use of a reservoir tank within the anchor and a valve such that the process of opening and closing the valve regulates the amount of water in the reservoir thereby increasing the weight contained in the anchor and thus controlling the amount of tension load on the cable . Regulating the tension on the cable to adjust to the wave speed and natural frequencies in the water will alter the amount of mechanical energy created by the transducer cable system . A strain sensor is mounted on the cable and joined to a computer mother board to measure the tension on the cable . Therefore the transducer cable system serves as an electromechanical generator that is tunable to produce enough power for a basic low power i.e. 1 watt or less sensor system.

A vibrating string contains both kinetic and potential energies. The total amount of energy for a string vibrating at frequency is expressed in equations 1a and 1b below 

While equations 1a and 1b characterize the approximate mechanical energy for a string the following equations calculate the energy translated into electrical energy. To calculate the estimated energy transfer the constitutive equations for material strain and its dielectric properties are computed from the following equations. 2a 2b The strains constitutive equation 2a is derived from Hooke s Law but expressed in the inverse form where S is strain s is compliance and T is stress. In the dielectric equivalent form equation 2b D is charge density is permittivity and E is electric field. The constitutive equations are combined to from new equations which represent the coupled constitutive equations for linear piezoelectric materials 3a 3b One of the coupling terms is the compliance s of the material which is the inverse of the modulus of elasticity. The piezoelectric constant d corresponds to the sensitivity of the material. The permittivity of the material is represented by . These coupling terms establish the relationships to compute the mechanical to electrical energy conversion for a piezoelectric system. To obtain the coupling efficiency of a mechanical to electrical energy conversion for a vibrating structure the following equation is used 

This invention is a system that keeps a long lead zirconate titanate core within an armored cable in such tension that the fixed string equation and boundary conditions described above are sufficient to describe the modes and energy generation within the cable. The total energy computation considers the tension cross sectional area current speed and wave periodicity to describe the amount of power potentially available from the system. In general the total energy increases with frequency although very high modes in the kilohertz kHz range are associated with decreasing energy. Environmental conditions producing such high frequencies are unlikely within typical sea states. The combination of more tension relatively higher modes and complicated mixed modes generates power that can then be regulated by an alternating current to direct current converter and voltage regulator and captured by charging a battery such as a nickel cadmium battery that can power a low powered sensor suite .

In one embodiment the present invention only needs to produce one watt of power or less to function. Microprocessor and data acquisition board combinations often operate at 200 mW. Since the present invention is not a stand alone device it may also function for several days in the same general location performing its mission as a long transducer array. For example approximately 0.5 W of power are consumed in a two second interval. After frictional losses and unforeseen conditions the power could drop to 5 mW which is two orders of magnitude. An hour mission in environmental conditions with the same physical loads would generate 9 W despite these additional losses. In one embodiment the microprocessor and data acquisition board combinations are a GUMSTIX computer which operates with approximately 1.0 W load with a standard electronics configuration. Therefore data acquisition can be performed by the GUMSTIX until the cyclical loading damages the rechargeable battery or during a long duration of stagnant ocean. In addition with the remaining wattage available less than 1.0 W of power could be used for radio frequency transmission from a radio such as a 900 MHz radio so that information gathered by the GUMSTIX computer can be transmitted off of the system .

After deploying the apparatus in the configuration illustrated in the intention is to maintain a sufficient amount of power generation as represented by Eto accomplish a predetermined specific task such as powering a sensor suite. This can involve monitoring and adjusting the tension on cable in response to wave speed and current to optimize the total energy E associated with the string s vibration. The value of optimum tension Pis predetermined prior to deploying the apparatus of system and is based on specifications of the cable and the current wave speed and sea states of the body of water where the apparatus of system is deployed. The predetermined tension Pfor the cable is designed to allow the cable to operate in common sea states and is largely determined by the static tension of the cable . Higher sea states cause more horizontal forces to act on the buoy and anchor which in turn does not yield as consistent a strumming motion on the cable . The dynamic tension of cable is also crucial in creating the piezoelectric strain required to generate the desired power.

The method of operation of the apparatus of the present invention based on the above stated intention to maintain a sufficient amount of power generation comprises the following steps. The first step of the method is to take a periodic measurement the speed U of the water current flowing over the diameter D of cable . This measurement can be taken by the velocity sensor and relayed to the processor . If the velocity is within the range of the predetermined sea state then no further action needs to be taken. After a specified period of time another periodic measurement is taken. If the velocity is determined by processor to be outside of the range of a predetermined sea state then the next step is for the processor to associate a strum frequency fwith the current flowing over the diameter of cable according to the following equation 5 where the Str variable refers to Strouhal s number which is derived from the Reynold s number Re. The Reynold s number is shown by Equation 6 6 The variable U stands for velocity current or flow across a diameter D of the cable and v is the kinematic viscosity. These fluid dynamic constants are common terms used to describe flow over a surface.

The next step is for the processor to substitute fas in equations 1a and 1b above to get determinative energy associated with the strum that is the main overall frequency mode that cable is in. The next step is for processor to solve for E which indicates the energy being produced by the system at the time of the water current measurement. Based on the value of Eprocessor determines if a sufficient amount of power is being generated to accomplish a specified task for example the operation of a GUMSTIX computer which operates with approximately 1.0 W load as mentioned above. If the determination indicates that there is an insufficient amount of power then the tension in the cable is incrementally adjusted by adding water into the reservoir in the anchor . In one embodiment the water can be added by having valve electro mechanically actuated by a control signal from processor . These method steps are repeated periodically to keep the system tuned to the surrounding underwater environment.

The advantage of the present invention is that the lead zirconate titanate core material for a cable could operate as a sensor transducer and an energy generation source. By combining the appropriate electronics this invention allows for the possibility of a sonar array which makes it a multi functional self powered sensor. Additionally the present invention offers the possibility to support a distributed network system infrastructure by extending the operation life of a multi functional sensor suite.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

