---

title: Method and apparatus for producing pyrolysis oil having improved stability
abstract: Methods and apparatus to improve hot gas filtration to reduce the liquid fuel loss caused by prolonged residence time at high temperatures are described. The improvement can be obtained by reducing the residence time at elevated temperature by reducing the temperature of the pyrolysis vapor, by reducing the volume of the pyrolysis vapor at the elevated temperature, by increasing the volumetric flow rate at constant volume of the pyrolysis vapor, or by doing a combination of these.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527022&OS=09527022&RS=09527022
owner: UOP LLC
number: 09527022
owner_city: Des Plaines
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120608
---
This invention was made under the partial support of the United States Government United States Department of Energy under Award No. DE FG36 08GO18213. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to pyrolysis oil and more particularly to methods and apparatus for producing pyrolysis oil having improved stability at high liquid yield.

Pyrolysis is a thermal process during which solid carbonaceous biomass feedstock i.e. biomass such as wood agricultural wastes residues algae forestry byproducts cellulose and lignin municipal waste construction demolition debris or the like is rapidly heated to pyrolysis temperatures of about 300 C. to about 900 C. in the absence of air using a pyrolysis reactor. A modern form of pyrolysis or rapid thermal conversion is conducted under moderate temperatures typically 400 to 600 C. and short residence times of less than 5 seconds. An example is RTP or Rapid Thermal Processing that operates under such conditions producing solid and gaseous pyrolysis products. The gaseous pyrolysis products pyrolysis gases comprise a non condensable portion and a condensable portion vapors that can be condensed into liquid biomass derived pyrolysis oil. The solid pyrolysis products include combustible solids containing carbon referred to as char .

Heat for the endothermic pyrolysis reaction is produced in a combustion zone of the process by combusting the char or by combusting the char and the non condensable pyrolysis gases in the presence of the heat transfer medium. Heat is transferred from the reheater to the pyrolysis reactor by the heat transfer medium. The heat transfer medium typically comprises inert solids such as silica sand low activity catalyst or other inert material.

In such processes the heat transfer medium and the solid fuel are typically separated from the gaseous products by a momentum device such as a cyclonic separator.

However a portion of the circulating heat transfer medium and the char are too small in diameter to be separated by a momentum device. As a result after condensation of the liquid pyrolysis oil the liquid fuel contains some solids from the sand and char that were not separated by the momentum separator. In addition the char contains some metals from the biomass feedstock such as sodium potassium calcium and magnesium. These metals contribute to the instability of the liquid fuel in storage. The viscosity increases over time eventually leading to a separation of the fuel into an organic phase and an aqueous phase. Although possible it is more difficult to use this high viscosity oil as fuel. The presence of solids in the oil can cause problems. In addition the oil has to be heated to be used because of the high viscosity which can cause the oil to solidify and or accelerate corrosion of the fuel system.

Filtration has been used for separation either alone or in combination with a momentum separator to generate a lower solids content liquid fuel. However the additional residence time introduced by such filters causes some of the liquid fuel to be converted into gaseous fuel. See e.g. Kang et al. Fast pyrolysis of radiate pine in a bench scale plant with a fluidized bed Influence of a char separation system and reaction conditions on the production of bio oil J. Anal. Appl. Pyrolysis 76 2006 p. 32 37 and Park et al. Pyrolysis characteristics of Oriental white oak Kinetic study and fast pyrolysis in a fluidized bed with an improved reaction system Fuel Processing Technology 90 2009 186 195.

One aspect of the invention is an apparatus for producing pyrolysis oil having improved stability. In one embodiment the apparatus includes a pyrolysis reactor having an inlet and an outlet a hot gas filter having an inlet and an outlet the inlet of the hot gas filter in fluid communication with the outlet of the pyrolysis reactor the hot gas filter including a filter with a filter insert that reduces a void volume of the filter and a condenser having an inlet the inlet of the condenser in fluid communication with the outlet of the hot gas filter.

In another embodiment the apparatus includes a pyrolysis reactor having an inlet and an outlet a cyclonic separator having an inlet and an outlet the inlet of the cyclonic separator in fluid communication with the outlet of the pyrolysis reactor a filter device having an inlet and an outlet the inlet of the filter device in fluid communication with the outlet of the cyclonic separator a condenser having an inlet in fluid communication with the outlet of the filter device and a temperature reducing apparatus in thermal communication with the inlet of the filter device to reduce a temperature of a vapor entering the filter device or a flow rate increasing apparatus to increase a volumetric flow rate of the first purified pyrolysis vapor stream into the filter device or both.

Another aspect of the invention involves a method for producing pyrolysis oil having improved stability. In one embodiment the method includes pyrolyzing biomass in a pyrolysis reactor to form pyrolysis vapor. Particles from the pyrolysis vapor are separated in a hot gas filter forming a purified pyrolysis vapor stream the hot gas filter having a filter with a filter insert that reduces a void volume of the filter. The purified pyrolysis vapor stream is condensed in a condenser to form the pyrolysis oil.

In another embodiment the method includes pyrolyzing biomass in a pyrolysis reactor to form pyrolysis vapor separating particles from the pyrolysis vapor in a cyclonic separator forming a first purified pyrolysis vapor stream reducing the temperature of the first purified pyrolysis vapor stream or increasing a volumetric flow rate of the first purified pyrolysis vapor stream into a second filter device or both separating particles from the reduced temperature first purified pyrolysis vapor stream in a second filter device forming a second purified pyrolysis vapor stream and condensing the second purified pyrolysis vapor stream in a condenser to form the pyrolysis oil.

The present invention involves methods and apparatus to improve hot gas filtration to reduce the liquid fuel loss caused by prolonged residence time at high temperatures. The improvement can be obtained by reducing the residence time at elevated temperature by reducing the temperature of the pyrolysis vapor by reducing the volume of the pyrolysis vapor at the elevated temperature by increasing the volumetric flow rate at constant volume of the pyrolysis vapor or by doing a combination of these.

Some pyrolysis reactors use a heat transfer medium while others do not. If present the heat transfer medium comprises inert solids such as sand catalytic solids or both. The heat transfer medium leaving the pyrolysis reactor is said to be spent because it contains the combustible carbon containing solids from the pyrolysis process. The pyrolysis products with entrained spent heat transfer medium if present are transferred from the pyrolysis reactor to a momentum separator for separating the gaseous pyrolysis products from the spent heat transfer medium and char particle stream . The spent heat transfer medium and char particle stream is sent to the reheater zone of the pyrolysis reactor or separate combustion zone if present . Suitable momentum separators include but are not limited to cyclonic separators.

Some spent heat transfer medium and char particles which are too small to be removed in the momentum separator are carried with the pyrolysis products into the filtration device where the smaller heat transfer medium and char particles are separated out in stream and returned to the pyrolysis reactor . Suitable filtration devices include but are not limited to hot gas filters.

The pyrolysis products from the filtration device are sent to condenser where the pyrolysis oil is condensed and recovered. There can be one or more condensers which can be the same type or different types. Suitable condensers include but are not limited to surface condensers and liquid contact condensers.

In some embodiments the filtration device is desirably placed as close as possible to the exit of the cyclonic separator in order to reduce the length of time at the elevated temperature.

In some embodiments a portion A of the gas from condenser can be mixed with the gaseous pyrolysis products from the momentum separator to reduce the temperature of the pyrolysis products. The temperature reduction is sufficient to reduce the rate of thermal reactions causing conversion of the liquid fuel to gaseous fuel but not enough to cause condensation of the liquid. The temperature is generally reduced up to about 100 C. or up to about 90 C. or up to about 80 C. or up to about 70 C. or up to about 60 C. or up to about 50 C. or up to about 40 C. or up to about 30 C. The temperature is generally reduced at least about 5 C. or at least about 10 C. or at least about 15 C. or at least about 20 C. or at least about 25 C. or at least about 30 C.

In some embodiments combining a portion A of the gas from condenser with the gaseous pyrolysis products from the cyclonic separator also increases the volumetric flow rate of the combined gas stream to filtration device thereby reducing residence time of the gaseous pyrolysis products. In some embodiments increasing the volumetric flow rate could be done by introducing an additional gas either without using the gas from the condenser or combined with the gas from the condenser into the gaseous pyrolysis products stream. In some embodiments increasing the volumetric flow rate could be done without decreasing the temperature of the gaseous pyrolysis products.

Alternatively the temperature of the pyrolysis products entering the filtration device can be reduced by introducing the pyrolysis products into a heat exchanger as shown in . Other methods of reducing the temperature of the pyrolysis products could also be used.

In one embodiment the pyrolysis reactor does not use a heat transfer medium and the momentum separator is omitted. In this embodiment the filtration device is a hot gas filter such as is shown in . The inlet of the hot gas filter is connected to the outlet of the pyrolysis reactor and all of the char is removed by the hot gas filter . The temperature reducing or volumetric flow rate increasing apparatus can be combined with this embodiment if desired.

In some embodiments the filtration device is a hot gas filter as shown in . The hot gas enters hot gas filter and clean gas exits the hot gas filter after passing through filters . The filters have filter inserts which reduce the void volume within the filters . Optionally the interior of the filter insert is purged with a small portion of a quench gas introduced through inlet in manifold and exiting through purge vents in order to prevent damage to the filter insert from a pressure differential or from deposits forming inside the hot gas filter . All or a portion of the quench gas can be used for cleaning the filter in the blow back cycle.

The void volume outside the filter within the filter housing is minimized by closely spacing the number of filters within a housing of sufficient diameter to permit filter cake to be adequately discharged during filter regeneration by blow back cycles.

In the embodiment shown in the filter inserts are hollow cones. The hollow conical filter inserts are wider at the base where the gas flow is at a minimum and narrower at the outlet where the gas flow is at a maximum. The tapered shape is designed to minimize the pressure drop across the device. Other filter and filter insert designs are possible as would be understood by those of skill in the art. For example if the filters were conical cylindrical filter inserts could be used. Other examples of cross sectional shapes for the filter the filter insert or both include but are not limited to circles triangles squares rectangles pentagons hexagons heptagons octagons nonagons decagons stars etc. The filters and the filter inserts can have the same cross sectional shape or different cross sectional shapes. The filters the filter inserts or both can be tapered to give conical or pyramidal shapes for example. The tapered filter or filter insert can be wider at the bottom or wider at the top if desired.

While at least one exemplary embodiment has been presented in the foregoing detailed description of the invention it should be appreciated that a vast number of variations exist. It should also be appreciated that the exemplary embodiment or exemplary embodiments are only examples and are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing an exemplary embodiment of the invention. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements described in an exemplary embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

