---

title: Translation of touch input into local input based on a translation profile for an application
abstract: Examples disclosed herein relate to translation of touch input into local input based on a translation profile for an application. Examples include translating touch input into local input based on a translation profile for an application in focus, if the translation profile is accessible. Examples further include providing the touch input to an operating system if no translation profile for the application in focus is accessible and the operating system is able to utilize touch input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632693&OS=09632693&RS=09632693
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09632693
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120529
---
A computing device such as a desktop computer notebook computer or tablet computer may provide a graphical user interface GUI for user interaction with content of the computing device. Such computing devices may enable a user to navigate between windows of the GUI and interact with content displayed in the windows using at least one input device such as a mouse a keyboard or the like. In some examples a computing device may be accessed remotely using another device to view and interact with the GUI of the computing device.

As noted above a computing device may be accessed remotely using another device to view and interact with a graphical user interface GUI of the computing device. For example applications at a local computing device may be accessed over a computer network using a remote computing device to view and interact with a GUI of the local computing device. In some examples the remote computing device may include a touch sensitive display capable of receiving touch input. In such examples it may be desirable to allow a user to interact with applications at the local computing device using touch input at the remote computing device.

However at least some of the applications at the local computing device may not support touch input. For example many computation intensive design and analysis applications for workstation computing devices do not recognize touch input from touch sensitive displays. While it may be possible to develop a touch enabled version of such an application a single touch enabled version may not be sufficient to work with each type of remote computing device. For example different remote computing devices may have different touch input systems that recognize different touch actions e.g. touch gestures or have different actions mapped to the same touch actions. Additionally developing a new touch enabled version of each application for each type of remote computing device input system may be costly and time consuming for application developers.

To address these issues examples described herein provide a robust tool to enable interaction with both touch enabled and non touch enabled applications at a local computing device using touch input at a remote computing device without changing the local computing device applications. Examples described herein may translate touch input received from a remote computing device into local input usable by the local computing device e.g. mouse or keyboard input based on a translation profile associated with an application in focus at the local computing device at the time of the touch input. In such examples application developers may provide touch input translation profiles for their applications rather than creating new touch enabled applications for use with touch systems which may result in time and cost savings. In some examples multiple translation profiles may be provided for a single application with each of the profiles including translation information for a different remote computing device touch input system.

Additionally examples described herein may provide received touch input to an operating system OS of the local computing device if no translation profile is available for the application in focus and the OS is able to natively process touch input. In some examples the received touch input may alternatively be translated based on a translation profile associated with the local computing device OS if no translation profile is available for the application in focus and the OS is not able to natively process touch input. In this manner examples described herein may utilize an application specific translation profile for an application in focus if available and alternatively either use an OS translation profile or provide the touch input to the OS depending on whether the OS can natively process touch information. As such examples described herein may robustly provide for the use of touch input received from a remote computing device with applications at a local computing device.

Referring now to the drawings is a block diagram of an example local computing device to receive touch input from a remote computing device. As used herein a computing device may be a desktop or notebook computer workstation server tablet computer mobile phone smart device or any other device or equipment including a processor. In the example of local computing device includes a processor a network interface and a machine readable storage medium encoded with instructions and . In some examples storage medium may include additional instructions. In other examples instructions and any other instructions described herein in relation to storage medium may be stored remotely from local computing device .

As used herein a processor may be at least one of a central processing unit CPU a semiconductor based microprocessor a graphics processing unit GPU a field programmable gate array FPGA configured to retrieve and execute instructions other electronic circuitry suitable for the retrieval and execution instructions stored on a machine readable storage medium or a combination thereof. Processor may fetch decode and execute instructions stored on storage medium to implement the functionalities described below. In other examples the functionalities of any of the instructions of storage medium may be implemented in the form of electronic circuitry in the form of executable instructions encoded on a machine readable storage medium or a combination thereof.

As used herein a machine readable storage medium may be any electronic magnetic optical or other physical storage device to contain or store information such as executable instructions data and the like. For example any machine readable storage medium described herein may be any of Random Access Memory RAM flash memory a storage drive e.g. a hard disk a Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM and the like or a combination thereof. Further any machine readable storage medium described herein may be non transitory.

In the example of local computing device may also include an operating system OS for local computing device . OS may include a graphical user interface GUI module that may implement a GUI on local computing device . GUI module may generate local display information for output on a local display such as an integral display of local computing device or a display connected to a local peripheral interface of local computing device e.g. a local port or bus . In some examples the functionalities of OS and module may be implemented in the form of executable instructions encoded on a machine readable storage medium in the form of electronic circuitry or a combination thereof.

In some examples instructions may provide remote display information to a remote computing device with network interface of local computing device . The remote display information may be useable by the remote computing device to display at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device . In some examples remote display information may be provided to the remote computing device as part of a remote desktop protocol providing remote access to local computing device . In such examples the remote computing device may be used to view and interact with a GUI e.g. a desktop of local computing device . The remote computing device may be any type of computing device as described herein that includes a touch sensitive display. In some examples instructions may continuously derive remote display information from local display information generated by GUI module such that the remote computing device is able to use the remote display information to continuously display at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device . For example instructions may continuously provide remote display information during a given remote desktop session between local computing device and the remote computing device.

As used herein a touch sensitive display may be any combination of hardware components capable of outputting a video signal and receiving user input in the form of touch. For example a touch sensitive display may include components of any display technology suitable for outputting a received video signal e.g. remote display information and may also include components for detecting touch such as the components of for example a resistive capacitive surface acoustic wave infrared optical imaging dispersive signal sensing in cell system or the like. In examples described herein a touch sensitive display may output touch information identifying received user input.

As noted above instructions may provide remote display information to the remote computing device with network interface . As used herein a network interface is at least one hardware component that may be used by a computing device to communicate with at least one other computing device via a communications network including at least one computer network at least one telephone network or a combination thereof. In some examples suitable computer networks include for example a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a virtual private network VPN the internet and the like.

Instructions may receive touch input from the remote computing device with network interface . Received touch input may identify a touch event sensed with a touch sensitive display at the remote computing device when at least a portion of the GUI was being displayed with the touch sensitive display. In some examples the remote computing device may receive the remote display information and using that information display at least a portion of the GUI of the local computing device on a touch sensitive display of the remote computing device. In such examples the touch sensitive display may sense a touch event while displaying the portion of the GUI. In some examples touch input may be received from the remote computing device as part of a remote desktop protocol providing remote access to local computing device .

In some examples the remote computing device may provide touch input to local computing device in response to touch events sensed by a touch sensitive display of the remote computing device. As used herein a touch event may be an interaction between a touch sensitive display and a finger stylus etc. that may be detected by the display. For example placing a finger on the display moving the finger across the display and then lifting the finger from the display may be sensed by the display as three touch events namely a touch down event a touch move event and a touch up event respectively. In other examples additional or other types of touch events may be sensed by the touch sensitive display. In examples described herein the types of touch events sensed by a touch sensitive display may vary depending upon at least one of the type of device using the touch sensitive display and the operating system of the device using the touch sensitive display.

As used herein touch input is information identifying at least one touch event sensed by a touch sensitive display. In some examples touch input may include for each touch event identified in the touch input an identification of the type of the touch event e.g. touch down touch move touch up etc. and the location of the touch event. The location information may identify a point or area of a GUI displayed on the touch sensitive display where the touch event occurred or a point or area of the display at which the touch event occurred. For example touch input may identify for a touch event sensed at the touch sensitive display the type of the touch event and the location of the touch event within the local computing device GUI displayed at least in part on the touch sensitive display. In some examples touch input received from remote computing device may be touch information output by a touch sensitive display of the remote computing device or may be information derived from such touch information. Also in some examples the remote computing device may provide the touch input to local computing device in a uniform touch input format. Additionally remote computing device may provide touch input to local computing device in a touch input message or communication.

In examples described herein the manner in which the received touch input is processed at local computing device may depend upon at least one of whether OS is able to utilize touch input and whether a translation profile is available for an application in focus at local computing device . In the example of instructions may determine whether OS of local computing device is able to utilize touch input. In some examples instructions may query OS to determine whether OS is able to utilize touch input. In other examples instructions may include a list of operating systems able to utilize touch input. In such examples instructions may query OS to determine the identity of OS and then determine whether OS is able to utilize touch input based on whether OS is included in the list. As used herein an operating system is able to utilize touch input if the OS is able to receive and act upon touch input as a valid form of user input.

In the example of instructions may also determine an application in focus at local computing device at the time of the touch event identified in touch input . For example instructions may query OS to determine the application in focus at the time of the touch event. Instructions may further determine whether a translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event is accessible to local computing device . For example instructions may determine that a translation profile associated with the application in focus is accessible to local computing device if such a translation profile is stored on local computing device or is stored remotely from local computing device at a location known to and accessible by local computing device . For example instructions may determine that a translation profile associated with the application in focus is accessible to local computing device if the profile is stored at a known address which local computing device is able to access via network interface .

As used herein a translation profile is a collection of information including a mapping of touch input to at least one of local input useable by an operating system of a local computing device and command input usable by an application of the local computing device. Also as used herein a translation profile associated with or for a given application is a translation profile identified for use in connection with the given application. As used herein local input useable by an operating system of a local computing device is information the operating system is able to receive and act upon as a valid form of user input. In some examples the local input may be information emulating output from at least one type of input device e.g. mouse keyboard etc. whose output the operating system is able to receive and act upon as a valid form of user input. For example a translation profile may include at least one mapping of touch input to local input emulating input from at least one of a mouse a keyboard or another input device. As used herein command input of a translation profile associated with an application is at least one command useable by the application associated with the translation profile. In some examples a translation profile may also include mappings of touch input to other touch input. Such mappings may be utilized if the OS of the local computing device is able to utilize touch input.

In some examples a translation profile may include mappings from touch actions to local input. As used herein a touch action is information identifying a given touch input or sequence of touch input for translation to local input. In some examples a translation profile may include a plurality of touch actions each representing one of a plurality of single and multi finger taps and touch gestures for translation into local input. In such examples each of the touch actions includes information identifying the touch input or sequence of touch input defining the tap or touch gesture represented by the touch action.

As described above instructions may determine that a translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to the local computing device . In response to that determination instructions may translate at least the received touch input into local input useable by the OS based on the translation profile associated with the application in focus. In such examples instructions may identify a touch action of the translation profile corresponding to at least the received touch input. For example instructions may identify a touch action in the translation profile that matches the received touch input . In other examples instructions may identify a touch action in the translation profile that matches a sequence of touch input including the received touch input in combination with other touch input received previously other touch input received subsequently or both. For example the identified touch action may include information identifying a sequence of touch input defining a touch gesture wherein the sequence includes the received touch input.

After identifying the touch action instructions may provide to OS the local input mapped to the identified touch action in the translation profile for the application in focus. In some examples the local input provided to OS may include information emulating output of at least one input device whose input is useable by OS . For example the local input may emulate at least one of mouse and keyboard input. In some examples the local input mapped to the identified touch action may include information emulating a sequence of keystrokes output by a keyboard wherein the sequence of keystrokes is defined to invoke a given function in the application in focus. For example the sequence of keystrokes may be defined as a keyboard shortcut in the application in focus. For example the identified touch action may include a sequence of touch input defining a two finger pinch gesture and the identified touch action may be mapped to local input emulating a sequence of keystrokes e.g. the sequence Alt z defined as a zoom out shortcut in the application in focus. In such examples instructions may provide local input emulating the keyboard sequence to OS .

In other examples instructions may determine that no translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device . In such examples instructions may also determine that OS is able to utilize touch input. In response to these determinations instructions may provide received touch input to OS . In some examples instructions may place touch input in a message function call or other communication format recognized by OS prior to providing it to OS . For example instructions may provide the received touch input to OS in an Application Programming Interface API message recognized by OS .

In still other examples instructions may determine that no translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device and that OS is not able to utilize touch input. In response to such determinations instructions may translate at least the received touch input into local input useable by the OS based on a translation profile associated with OS . Instructions may translate the touch input to local input as described above in relation to the translation profile for the application in focus. In some examples the translation profile associated with OS may translate touch input into local input such as at least one of mouse input and keyboard input. The translation profile for OS may be stored locally on local computing device or may be accessible remotely from local computing device e.g. via network interface .

In some examples instructions may also determine a device type of the remote computing device. As used herein a device type of a computing device is information identifying at least one of an operating system utilized by the computing device other software utilized by the computing device hardware components included in the computing device a model of computing device and a brand of the computing device. In some examples instructions may determine the device type of a remote computing device based on identifying information provided to local computing device by the remote computing device. As noted above instructions may determine whether a translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event is accessible to local computing device . In some examples a plurality of translation profiles associated with an application of local computing device may be provided for each of at least one application of local computing device . In such examples different translation profiles associated with a given application may be associated with different device types. For example each of the translation profiles associated with a given application may be associated with a different device type. In some examples a translation profile may be associated with a plurality of device types. Additionally in some examples a default translation profile may be identified among the plurality of translation profiles associated with a given application. The plurality of translation profiles may be stored locally on local computing device or remotely.

In such examples after instructions determine a device type of the remote computing device instructions may determine whether a translation profile associated with the application in focus and associated with the determined device type is accessible to local computing device . If so then instructions may translate at least the received touch input based on the translation profile associated with the application in focus and the determined device type. If not then instructions may determine whether a default translation profile associated with the application in focus is available to local computing device . If so then instructions may translate at least the received touch input based on the default translation profile associated with the application in focus. If instructions determine that no translation profile associated with the application is accessible to local computing device then the received touch input may be processed at local computing device as described above. In some examples functionalities described herein in relation to may be provided in combination with functionalities described herein in relation to any of .

In the example of remote computing device may remotely access content of local computing device over a communications network. For example computing system may implement a remote desktop system in which remote computing device may remotely view and interact with a GUI e.g. a desktop of local computing device to access content of local computing device . In the example of instructions may provide remote display information to remote computing device with network interface as described above in relation to . In some examples remote computing device may receive remote display information with a network interface of the remote computing device . Remote computing device may also include a touch sensitive display . In examples described herein remote computing device may be any type of computing device as described herein that includes a touch sensitive display.

In the example of remote display information may be useable by remote computing device to display at least a portion of a GUI of local computing device with touch sensitive display . In some examples instructions may continuously derive remote display information from local display information generated by GUI module such that remote computing device is able to use remote display information received from local computing device to continuously display at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device on touch sensitive display . In the example of the portion of GUI displayed on touch sensitive display at a given time may include a window for an application of local computing device and another window for an application of local computing device . At other times other windows icons or other GUI objects may be displayed as part of the portion of GUI displayed on touch sensitive display .

In some examples touch sensitive display may sense a touch event while displaying GUI as described above in relation to . In the example of touch sensitive display may sense a touch event when a user taps touch sensitive display with a finger stylus or other object for example. In response remote computing device may provide to local computing device touch input identifying touch event . Remote computing device may continually provide touch input to local computing device as touch sensitive display senses touch events.

In some examples remote computing device may provide each instance of touch input to local computing device in a uniform touch input format. Also in some examples local computing device may receive touch input from a plurality of different remote computing devices in the same format. In the example of for example local computing device may receive each instance of touch input from remote computing device in a uniform touch input format and may receive each instance of touch input from another remote computing device in the same uniform touch input format.

In the example of instructions may receive touch input from remote computing device with network interface . As noted above the received touch input may identify a touch event sensed with touch sensitive display at remote computing device when displaying the at least a portion of GUI of local computing device . As described above touch input may identify the type of touch event and a location of touch event . In the example of touch event occurred within window of application . In such examples touch input may identify the location of touch event as a point or area corresponding to a region where window is displayed in GUI .

As described above in relation to the manner in which the received touch input is processed at local computing device may depend upon at least one of whether OS is able to natively process touch input and whether a translation profile is available for an application in focus at local computing device . As used herein an operating system is able to natively process input if the operating system is able to receive and act upon the input as a valid form of user input. Instructions may determine whether OS of local computing device is able to natively process touch input as described above in relation to determining with instructions whether an OS is able to utilize touch input.

In response to receiving touch input instructions may further determine an application in focus at local computing device at the time of the touch event identified in touch input as described above in relation to . In the example of instructions may determine that the application in focus at local computing device at the time of touch event identified in touch input is application displayed in window of GUI at the time of touch event .

After determining the application in focus instructions may also determine whether a translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event is accessible to local computing device as described above in relation to . In some examples local computing device may store in memory a plurality of translation profiles each associated with an application of local computing device . In other examples the plurality of translation profiles may be stored on another machine readable storage medium of local computing device separate from memory .

In such examples instructions may determine that a translation profile associated with the identified application in focus is accessible to local computing device if a translation profile associated with the application in focus is included among the plurality of translation profiles stored at local computing device . For example instructions may determine that a translation profile associated with the identified application in focus at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device if a translation profile associated with application e.g. a translation profile is stored at local computing device . In other examples instructions may determine that such a translation profile is accessible to local computing device if local computing device is able to access a remotely stored translation profile associated with the application e.g. via network interface as described above in relation to .

In the example of the plurality of translation profiles may include at least one translation profile for each of at least one application of local computing device . For example translation profiles may include a translation profile associated with application and a translation profile associated with application . Although shows two translation profiles among the plurality of translation profiles the plurality of translation profiles may include more than two translation profiles. In some examples the plurality of translation profiles may include multiple translation profiles associated with each of at least one of the applications. For example for some applications of local computing device the plurality of translation profiles may include multiple translation profiles associated with the application such as different translation profiles associated with different device types as described above in relation to .

In the example of each translation profile of the plurality includes a mapping of at least one touch action to at least one of local input and command input. In examples described herein a translation profile may map each touch action included therein to local input map each touch action included therein to command input or include both mappings of touch actions to local input and mappings of touch actions to command input. In some examples different translation profiles may include different mappings. For example different translation profiles may map the same touch action to different local input include mappings for different collections of touch actions or both.

In the example of translation profile associated with application and translation profile associated with application each include a mapping of at least one touch action to local input and for at least one touch action may each map the same touch action to different local input. For example as shown in translation profile may map a first touch action to first local input and translation profile may map first touch action to a second local input different than the first touch action . In the example of translation profile may also include a mapping of a second touch action to first command input . Translation profiles and may include additional mappings in some examples.

If instructions determine that a translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time that touch event was sensed by touch sensitive display then local computing device may use the translation profile to process the received touch input . For example if the translation profile includes a mapping of a touch action including at least the received touch input to local input that OS of local computing device is able to natively process then instructions may translate the touch input into local input based on the first translation profile associated with the application in focus.

In the example of for example instructions may determine that translation profile associated with application is accessible and determine that first touch action includes at least touch input i.e. matches touch input alone or matches touch input in combination with at least one of touch input received previously and touch input received subsequently . In such examples instructions may translate at least touch input into second local input to which the first touch action is mapped and provide the second local input to OS . In some examples second local input may implement a macro for the application associated with translation profile . In such examples the second local input when provided to OS may trigger a defined sequence of actions in the application. In such examples a user may invoke the macro implemented by second local input by performing the touch action mapped to second local input .

Alternatively if the translation profile maps the touch action including at least touch input to command input then instructions may provide the command input to which the touch input is mapped to the application in focus via an application command interface . In the example of for example instructions may determine that translation profile associated with application is accessible and determine that second touch action includes at least touch input i.e. matches touch input alone or matches touch input in combination with at least one of touch input received previously and touch input received subsequently . In such examples instructions may translate at least touch input into first command input to which the second touch action is mapped and provide the first command input to the application in focus i.e. application via application command interface . In such examples application command interface may be an interface for providing commands to applications executing on a computing device independent of the operating system of the computing device. In some examples the functionalities of application command interface may be implemented in the form of executable instructions encoded on a machine readable storage medium in the form of electronic circuitry or a combination thereof.

In other examples instructions may determine both that OS is able to natively process touch input and that no translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device . In such examples instructions may provide received touch input to OS as described above in relation to . In still other examples instructions may determine both that OS is not able to natively process touch input and that no translation profile associated with the application in focus at the time of touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device . In such examples instructions may translate at least the received touch input into local input OS is able to natively process based on a translation profile associated with OS . In the example of a translation profile associated with OS is stored in memory of local computing device . In other examples translation profile may be stored on local computing device on a machine readable storage medium separate from memory or remotely from local computing device . In the example of translation profile includes a mapping of first touch action to third local input which is different than local input and local input . In such examples translation profile may map a touch action to different local input than at least one translation profiles associated with an application of local computing device .

Additionally in some examples instructions may receive a translation profile alteration request specifying one of the plurality of translation profiles . In some examples the alteration request may be received via at least one local input device e.g. mouse keyboard etc. of local computing device . In response to receiving the request instructions may alter the specified translation profile in accordance with the received request. For example the request may specify at least one alteration to be made to the specified translation profile such as adding a new mapping of a touch input to one of a local input or command input changing a current mapping of for a given touch action or deleting a mapping for a given touch action. In such examples the translation profiles may be configurable by a user of local computing device . In some examples functionalities described herein in relation to may be provided in combination with functionalities described herein in relation to any of .

At of method local computing device may determine whether OS is able to natively process touch input. At local computing device may provide remote display information to remote computing device with network interface . In some examples the remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of a GUI of local computing device at remote computing device . For example remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of the GUI with touch sensitive display . At local computing device may receive touch input with network interface . In some examples touch input may indicate a touch event sensed with touch sensitive display of remote computing device when displaying at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device .

At local computing device may determine whether a translation profile associated with an application in focus at local computing device at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device . For example local computing device may query OS to determine what application is in focus at local computing device at the time of the identified touch event and may further determine whether a translation profile associated with the application in focus is accessible to local computing device as described above in relation to .

At of method if a translation profile associated with the application in focus is accessible to local computing device then local computing device may translate at least the received touch input into local input that OS is able to natively process based on the translation profile associated with the application in focus. At if no translation profile for the application in focus is accessible to local computing device and the OS is able to natively process touch input then local computing device may provide the received touch input to OS .

At of method local computing device may determine whether OS is able to natively process touch input as described above in relation to . If so method may proceed to where local computing device may provide remote display information to remote computing device with network interface . In some examples the remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of a GUI of local computing device at remote computing device . For example remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of the GUI with touch sensitive display . At local computing device may receive touch input with network interface . In some examples touch input may indicate a touch event sensed with touch sensitive display of remote computing device at a time when at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device was being displayed with touch sensitive display .

At local computing device may determine whether a translation profile associated with an application in focus at local computing device at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device as described above in relation to . For example local computing device may determine that application is in focus at local computing device at the time of the identified touch event and may further determine whether a translation profile associated with application is accessible to local computing device . If so method may proceed to where local computing device may translate at least the received touch input into local input that OS is able to natively process based on the translation profile associated with the application in focus e.g. application . Local computing device may provide the generated local input to OS . Local computing device may provide the generated local input to OS . Method may then proceed to to receive further touch input . If it is determined at that no translation profile for the application in focus e.g. application is accessible to local computing device then method may proceed to where local computing device may provide the received touch input to OS . Method may them proceed to to receive further touch input .

Returning to of method local computing device may receive with network interface other touch input indicating another touch event e.g. a subsequent touch event sensed with touch sensitive display at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device was being displayed with display . In some examples the subsequent touch event may occur when another application is in focus at local computing device such as application for example. In such examples method may proceed to where local computing device may determine whether a translation profile associated with application which is in focus at local computing device at the time of the subsequent touch event is accessible to local computing device .

If so method may proceed to where local computing device may translate at least the received other touch input into local input OS is able to natively process based on a translation profile associated with application . Local computing device may provide the generated local input to OS . Method may them proceed to to receive further touch input . If not method may proceed to where local computing device may provide the other touch input to OS . Method may them proceed to to receive further touch input .

If local computing device determines at that OS is not able to natively process touch input method may proceed to where local computing device may provide remote display information to remote computing device with network interface . As described above the remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of a GUI of local computing device at remote computing device . For example remote display information may be useable to display at least a portion of the GUI with touch sensitive display . At local computing device may receive with network interface touch input indicating a touch event sensed with touch sensitive display of remote computing device at a time when at least a portion of the GUI of local computing device was being displayed with touch sensitive display .

At local computing device may determine whether a translation profile associated with an application in focus at local computing device at the time of the touch event identified in touch input is accessible to local computing device as described above in relation to . If so method may proceed to where local computing device may translate at least the received touch input into local input that OS is able to natively process based on the translation profile associated with the application in focus. Local computing device may provide the generated local input to OS . Method may then proceed to to receive further touch input . If it is determined at that no translation profile for the application in focus is accessible to local computing device then method may proceed to where local computing device may generate from at least the received touch input and a translation profile associated with OS local input that OS is able to natively process. Local computing device may provide the generated local input to OS . Method may then proceed to to receive further touch input .

