---

title: Framework for realization of a web 2.0 features
abstract: A method to shape one or more features of Web 2.0 in the form of Web 2.0 solutions, using Web 2.0 realization framework, to the plurality of enterprises is disclosed. The method includes identifying the respective enterprises computing infrastructure and a business application needs of the respective enterprises. The respective enterprises current support system is also measured to find the feasibility of implementing the features of the Web 2.0. The method further comprises offering one or more Web 2.0 features to the respective enterprises based on the business activity. The method includes providing the Web Realization Cycle (WRC) for controlled implementation of Web 2.0 features to the respective enterprises.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650531&OS=08650531&RS=08650531
owner: Infosys Limited
number: 08650531
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20121114
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 315 082 filed Nov. 25 2008 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a Web 2.0 and more particularly to a method of incorporating one or more Web 2.0 features in the form of a Web 2.0 solution s using a Web 2.0 Realization Framework for one or more enterprises having plurality of business activities.

The phrase a Web 2.0 is the most talked emerging technology in an Information Technology IT industry used in different industries herein referred as enterprises including financial service or retail and many more. The Web 2.0 is creating quite a splash in the enterprises as the Web 2.0 is stretching the boundary of what traditional Web can do. However an exact definition of the phrase is still missing interpretations vary with evangelists thought leaders and product vendors. In the absence of any consensus Web 2.0 may best be explained as the second generation in an evolution of the Web to provide enriched end user experience social networking and collaboration capabilities.

The Web 2.0 comprises rich set of features based on the set of principles focusing on architecture of user participation user centricity collective intelligence multi device services simplicity openness transparency innovation and long tail of economics. Naturally Web 2.0 provides lot of implications for plurality of enterprises to avail business benefit. However despite many promises of the Web 2.0 realization of the Web 2.0 features in the plurality of enterprises is very slow. This may be partly attributed to the fact that all of the Web 2.0 features may not be applicable to plurality of enterprises. Moreover the technology enabler of Web 2.0 does not come out of box as a single technology product or a business application product.

In the current market there are several disparate technologies available that may be used to realize the individual features of Web 2.0. However a holistic approach for realization one or more features Web 2.0 in plurality of enterprises is lacking. Also few other challenges currently the enterprises facing to realize the features of Web 2.0 may include the difficulty in identifying the relevant Web 2.0 services and initiatives the enterprises should undertake given its business and stakeholder priority. Other problem for the enterprises may include how does Web 2.0 fit into existing enterprises computing infrastructure else what all technologies tools and standards need to be leveraged to implement Web 2.0 features else what services and systems does an enterprise need to support Web 2.0 features and derive business benefits out them. Finally what approach should the enterprises adopt to realize Web 2.0 feature big bang or a phased progressive approach or etc.

Thus there is a need for a framework that helps to implement or realize the Web 2.0 features in the plurality of enterprises.

The framework may provide the plurality of enterprises a holistic approach for implementing one or more features of Web 2.0 and capitalize the business benefit out of the Web 2.0.

A holistic approach for incorporating one or more Web 2.0 features in the form of a Web 2.0 solution s using a Web 2.0 Realization Framework WRF to a plurality of enterprises. Such an approach may permit one or more business activities of a respective enterprise s to be kitted together with a superior user experience and leverage social networking and collaboration.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WRF for incorporating one or more features in the form of Web 2.0 solutions includes a first layer for assessing the capabilities of each of the plurality of enterprises implementing the Web 2.0 solutions and a second layer for measuring a current support system of each of the plurality of enterprises for supporting different features of the Web 2.0 solutions. The WRF further comprises a third layer providing at least one or more Web 2.0 features to each of the plurality of enterprises and a fourth layer defining a controlled structure having a Web 2.0 Realization Cycle WRC for implementation of WRF in each of the plurality of enterprises to enhance business benefits of the plurality of enterprises.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WRF may be implemented in multiple ways to the plurality of enterprises using the controlled structure as defined in WRC. The WRF may be used as an interactive tool to shape a Web 2.0 solution s to the plurality of enterprises. The WRC for implementing the WRF in each of the plurality of enterprises is an iterative process thus enabling the plurality of enterprises to encash maximum business benefit.

In another embodiment of the present technique a controlled structure having a Web 2.0 realization cycle WRC for implementation WRF in a plurality of enterprises includes engaging a plurality of users to participate in one or more business activities of each of the plurality of enterprises and enriching the plurality of users overall user experience by providing one or user experience enrichment module. The WRC also includes the steps of empowering the enterprises with the insights of the plurality of users by providing one or more user active insights module s and enables enterprises to encash the business benefits by providing a capitalization module.

The following description is full and informative description of the best method and system presently contemplated for carrying out the present invention which is known to the inventors at the time of filing the patent application. Of course many modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant arts in view of the following description in view of the accompanying drawings and the appended claims. While the system and method described herein are provided with a certain degree of specificity the present technique may be implemented with either greater or lesser specificity depending on the needs of the user. Further some of the features of the present technique may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features described in the following paragraphs. As such the present description should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present technique and not in limitation thereof since the present technique is defined solely by the claims.

The present invention relates to a Web 2.0 solution s and more particularly to a method for incorporating one or more features of Web 2.0 using a Web 2.0 Realization Framework WRF for one or more enterprises having plurality of business activities.

The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of the requirement for obtaining a patent. The present description is the best presently contemplated method for carrying out the present invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles of the present invention may be applied to other embodiments and some features of the present invention may be used without the corresponding use of other features. Accordingly the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

Referring to the figures is a block diagram depicting a Web 2.0 Realization Framework WRF used to implement a plurality of Web 2.0 features in one or more enterprises having a plurality of business activities. The WRF includes a plurality of integrated layers. The integrated layers further comprising a first layer herein also referred as technology layer a second layer herein also referred as support layer a third layer herein also referred as main layer and a fourth layer herein also referred as control layer .

In one embodiment of the present technique the main layer and the support layer may rest on top of the technology layer . The control layer may ensure success in implementing the Web 2.0 solutions in each of the plurality of enterprise s .

The integrated layers in the WRF may consist of at least one or more modules which may be clearly identified as per the Web 2.0 definition. Also some of the modules as per the WRF which are associated with conventional technologies and other contemporary technologies cannot benefit the plurality of enterprises when implemented separately. To leverage full potential of Web 2.0 each of the plurality of enterprises applications which are based on a Web 2.0 principles may be integrated with other respective enterprises services and computing environment. The WRF identifies such Web 2.0 and a Non Web 2.0 module s which are required to build full fledged enterprises applications using the Web 2.0 solutions.

In one embodiment of the present technique the first layer comprises an enterprises computing infrastructure platform . The enterprises computing infrastructure platform is further configured with at least one or more modules providing a plurality of basic computing infrastructure for implementing one or more features of the Web 2.0. The enterprises computing infrastructure platform may include at least one of an enterprises application module or an integration module or a collaboration module or an information management module not shown in the for clarity purpose .

The enterprises computing infrastructure platform including at least one of an enterprises application module or an integration module or a collaboration module or an information management module providing essential information technology in the respective enterprises computing environment. These modules of the technology layer may act as a foundation layer for implementing the WRF in the respective enterprises. However the enterprises computing infrastructure platform may comprise more modules which are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments. The scope of the enterprises computing infrastructure platform should not be limited in light of the present technique.

In one embodiment of the present technique the enterprises application module may represent one or more business applications of the respective enterprises as well as the corresponding computing infrastructure within the enterprises business environment. The enterprise integration module provides features to integrate business applications information and processes within and across respective enterprises boundaries. The feature includes third party products a variety of open and proprietary protocols suitable for integrating respective enterprises requirement. The collaboration module may consist of conventional collaboration applications of the respective enterprises which includes application like an e mail an instant messaging a basic collaboration portal s a telecommunication means and etc. The information management module may represent one or more applications and technologies that enable a proper management of a structured data or an unstructured data within and across the respective enterprises boundaries. This may include at least one of a content management or a content delivery or a database management system or a data warehouses or a business intelligence application. The business intelligence application may further include at least one of a web analytics or a data analytics or internationalization or localization or a business rules or a workflow etc.

In one embodiment of the present technique the second layer comprises enterprises support system platform not shown in the figure . The enterprises support system platform is further configured with at least one or more modules for providing the necessary support for implementing the WRF in the respective enterprises. The enterprises support system platform may include at least one of an integration module or an infrastructure module or an administration monitoring module or a security compliance module . However the enterprises support system platform may comprise more modules which are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments. The scope of the enterprises support system platform should not be limited in light of the present technique.

The integration module may integrate multiple layers in the WRF and also may enable integration with the respective enterprises internal and external consumer. The integration module may even leverage an intra enterprises and inter enterprises technology. The integration module of the enterprises support system platform may includes one or more modules. The modules may be a composite applications module A or an enterprise service module B or an external business services module C or an integration components module D the modules are not shown in the figure for clarity purpose . The composite applications module A may enable creation of new applications by integrating existing respective enterprises services and existing external enterprises business services. The enterprise service module B may represent existing internal enterprise services that participate in the composite applications module A or with a new enterprises web service s which may be used by the external enterprises for the purpose of the composite applications module B. The external business services module C may represent existing external business services which may be used along with the composite applications module B. The integration components module D may represent a component or a function process or an application created or developed specifically to integrate various layer of the WRF.

The infrastructure module may include a hardware component s or a software component s . These components may be essential for maintaining the availability reliability scalability fault tolerance and performance of applications based on Web 2.0 solutions.

The administration monitoring module may provide one or more utilities required for monitoring and administration of the integrated layers in the WRF. The utilities may include a logger a tracker or a status dashboard.

The security compliance module may provide necessary security components and the associate compliance required for the respective enterprise implementing the WRF. The security compliance module may includes one or more module. The security and compliance module includes at least one of an identity and access management module not shown in the or a digital rights management module B or a compliance management module C. The identity and access management module A may provide the plurality of user the authentication and authorization to use the respective enterprises applications. The module A may even control and protect legitimate users having rights and privilege for using the resources from the other users whom do not having the rights. The digital rights management module B may control access to the digital data hosted in the respective enterprises. The compliance management module C may ensure compliance with the respective enterprises external regulatory requirements as well as the respective enterprises internal regulatory requirements. Thus the module C helps to alleviate the respective enterprises from probable risks associated with the content or with the applications requiring publishing.

In one embodiment of the present technique the third layer comprises a Web 2.0 technology platform . The Web 2.0 technology platform is further configured with at least one or more modules for implementing plurality of Web 2.0 features as tailored in the WRF framework for the respective enterprises. The Web 2.0 technology platform may include at least one of a Web 2.0 technology services module or a user participation module or an experience enrichment module or an active insights module or a capitalization module or a user interaction platform .

In one embodiment of the present technique the Web 2.0 technology services module may provide necessary technology capabilities which are used in other integrated layers to provide Web 2.0 features. The user participation module may include modules for supporting the plurality of users to participate in social networks to connect and communicate among themselves. The experience enrichment module provides capabilities that enrich user experience and facilities faster decision making capabilities. The active insights module may provide dynamic decision making capabilities for the respective enterprises based on the information or pattern extracted out of the user participation module or out of the experience enrichment module . The capitalization module may provide capabilities to derive business value or business benefit out of the WRF implemented in the respective enterprises. The user interaction platform enables various communications channels for the plurality of users to interact with the respective enterprises.

In one embodiment of the present technique the fourth layer comprises a governance model . The governance model defines a controlling structure for successful implementation of WRF. The governance model may define the lifecycle of Web 2.0 initiatives for the respective enterprises. The lifecycle may consist of one or more phase which includes at least one of an engage phase or a enrich phase or an empower phase or an encash phase as shown in . The phases recited in the lifecycle may be used in an iterative manner for implementing the WRF in plurality of enterprises. The iterative manner of using the phases may maximize the business benefit for the respective enterprises.

In one embodiment of the present invention the Web 2.0 technology services module includes various technology or products or tools or standards including at least one of a rich internet applications RIA platform products or an audio video media technologies or a collaborative authoring technologies or a syndication technologies or a web service technology or an information access technologies or a discovery technologies or a Blogs technologies or an enterprises social software or a bots technology or a widgets products or a mash up products or a situational software or a information aggregation engine or a open standards or combinations thereof.

The rich internet platform products RIA may provide one or more capabilities the respective enterprises may need to enrich the visually rich interfaces. The prominent RIA platform technologies may include at least one of an Ajax A or a Flash B or a Java FX C or a WPF D or combinations thereof. However the RIA products may comprise more modules which are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments. The scope of the RIA products should not be limited in light of the present technique

The Audio Video Media technologies may provide support for audio or video capabilities. The prominent Audio video media technologies may include at least one of a Video conference A or a Voice over IP VoIP B or a pod cast C or combinations thereof.

The collaborative authoring technologies may provide Web based collaborative authoring capabilities using which multiple users may create contents or edit shared contents. The prominent collaborative authoring technologies include wiki A.

The syndication technologies may enable the multiple users to make their contents available for distribution over the web. The prominent syndication protocols include at least one of a RSS A or an ATOM B or combinations thereof.

The web service technologies provide service over the network and are remotely executable. The prominent web service standards include at least one of a REST A or a WSDL B or SOAPC C or UDDI D or combinations thereof. However the web service technologies may comprise more services which are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments. The scope of the web service technologies should not be limited in light of the present technique

The information access technologies may provide the multiple users access the enterprises information easily. The information access may include a social bookmark A or taxonomy B or a folksonomy C or a tagging D or a tag cloud E or search F facilities to the users.

The discovery technologies may provide the support to discover the hidden pattern and find non obvious content to the plurality of the enterprises. The discovery technologies may involve advanced analytics and natural language processing associated with text or audio or video. The discovery technologies may include at least one of an advanced analytics A or a text analytics B or a natural language processing C technologies or combinations thereof.

The Blog technologies may enable the multiple users to create contents and publish the content over the internet. The typical blog entry may contain text or an image or a links or other media related contents. Although most blogs are textual some may even focus on photographs called as photoblogs or on videos called as videoblogs.

The enterprise social software may provide capabilities to create and manage online communities by forming user groups.

The bots products may provide the support for automating interactive question or answering process. The blots products differ from the conventional FAQ s which comprises a predefined set of questions and answers. The bots products enable users to ask random questions around a predefined subject and supply with answers which are generated on the fly based on a knowledge base. The bots application is typically used for self services features.

The widget technology may reside on the multiple user desktop providing capsule information from sources on the web.

The mash up technology may combine information and services from multiple source on the web and typically includes a complex layered visual contents.

The information aggregation engine may provide multiple techniques and methodologies for aggregation of content generated by multiple users to derive unique result.

The open standards may encompass a wide variety of industry open standards for the information technology as well as for the business domain specific standards.

In one embodiment of the present technique the user participation module may includes various module including at least one of an user expression management module or a social network module or a user generated content management module or a virtual applications module or a workplace environment module or combinations thereof.

The user expression management module may facilitate the platform to capture or store or manage various types of an element using which an individual user may reflect expressions and provide inputs about various aspects of enterprise business. The user expression management module may be associated with specific aspects of current and future enterprises business like products or services or operations or processes or people or organizational changes or a financial asset of the particular enterprises. The user expression management module is managed in one or more categories. The categories include free flowing text A or a semi structured content B or a tag C or a bookmark D or a link E or combinations thereof. The free flowing text categories A include reviews or experience or feedback or comments or a suggestion or an opinion or an observation or a recommendation or a like dislikes or etc. The semi structured content B may include a rating or ideas or a recommendations or etc. The user expression module may include other categories without limiting to the scope of the present invention.

The social network module may enable the particular enterprises to capture and manage a group expression and content assets generated by a group of users. The social network module is managed in one or more categories. The categories include a personal network or a business network or a customer partner network or a mobile network or a community of practice or a community dialogue or a community exchange or a discussion forum or a social library or a collaborative creation or combinations thereof. The personal network A provides capabilities for individual users to create and manage communities of their personal contacts within and across enterprises boundaries. The business network B provides capabilities for respective enterprises users to create and manage communities of their business contacts within and across enterprises boundaries. The customer partner network C provides capability to create and manage partner customer communities for the respective enterprises. The mobile network D enables access to the social network over a mobile infrastructure. The community of practice E is enables the multiple users sharing based on a specific area of interest or focus. The community dialogue F represents capture management and sharing of community expressions and community generated content within communities. The community exchanges G represents management communication and information across multiple communities. The discussion forums H represent a special type of community dialogue focused around a specific subject. The social libraries represent a repository of a specific category of business assets as well sharing the repository across communities. The collaborative creation J enables participation of communities for the purpose of collaboratively creating a specific business asset.

The user generated content management module may provide support for creation and management of assets generated by users. Various categories of the user generated module include at least one of a publishing platform A or a data asset B or an executables C or combinations thereof. The publishing platform A facilitates creation and management of user blogs or journals. The data assets B include the data like a text or a document or an image or a multimedia or etc. The executables C include utility software or a games and etc.

The virtual applications module is a web based virtual application enabling the one or more users to explore the feel of using the product or the application hosted by the respective enterprises either in the form of a group or individual activities. The virtual applications module may even simulate real life experience A to the users or test launch new product B or service capabilities to the multiple users or provide the proof of concept C to the multiple users.

The workplace environment module may combine multiple Web 2.0 enabled components that are clubbed with a workplace environment for an active and collaborative participation of multiple users. Typically several modules from the user participation module the experience enhancement module and active insight module are clubbed and integrated for provided clubbed workplace environment . The workplace environment module includes at least one of an employee workbench A or a taskforce workbench B or a partner workbench C or combination thereof. The employee workbench is aimed to improve workplace productivity and efficiency of the employee within the enterprises. The taskforce workbench B is aimed at global virtual communities with a focus to accomplish specific goals for an enterprises or group of enterprises. The partner workbench C is aimed at collaborating respective enterprises partner.

In one embodiment of the present technique the experience enrichment module may include various modules including at least one of a rich internet applications module or a user assistance module or an aggregation applications module or an informed user module or a business enrichment module or combinations thereof.

The RIA module provides the multiple users the rich and intuitive end user experience functionality. The RIA module comprises a rich user interface UI capabilities A or data visualization and manipulation capabilities B or a task optimization capabilities C or a partial page refresh capabilities D and etc.

The user assistance module enables the multiple users to accomplice their tasks through using at least one capabilities of a contextual process guidance A or an assisted search B or an assisted tagging C or an automated feedback D or a talk bots E or a self service applications F or a controlled vocabularies G or a linked information H or combinations thereof. The contextual process guidance A provides help regarding the business process execution. The assisted search B provides automated interactive help or assistance for refining search. The assisted tagging C assist the multiple users with tagging by providing suggested names or labels. The automated feedback D assists the multiple users in the feedback process. The talk bots E provide automated self help on a specific subject through a series of interactive questions and answers. The controlled vocabularies G helps the multiple users with tagging and other form of the dialogue. The linked information H enables access to relevant information.

The aggregation application module aggregates data or services from different source on the web. Also the aggregation application module enables multiple users to aggregate data on their own. The aggregation application module may include at least one of a mash up application or a situational applications or combinations thereof.

The informed user module provides information about the respective enterprise to the multiple users. The informed user module may include at least one of a product service intelligence capabilities A or a contextual search capabilities B or an expertise location capabilities C or a information classification capabilities D or a data aggregation capabilities E or a value added information capabilities F or combinations thereof.

The business enrichment module may involve strategies enabling the respective enterprises to introduce new products A or services B or enhance existing products or services based on the user or the community expressions. The knowledge enrichment capabilities C ensures the multiple users or communities aware of others contribution.

In one embodiment of the present technique the active insights module may include various module including at least one of an social network analysis module or a user analytics module or a discover info module or a social information aggregation module or a value chain intelligence module or a dynamic profile management module or a reports module or a alerts and notification module or a real time intelligence module or combinations thereof.

The social network analysis module may provide the analytics result associated with the communities or groups or combinations thereof. The social network analysis module includes at least one of a voice of community capabilities A or relationship analysis capabilities B or an area of interest capabilities C or combinations thereof. The voice of community capabilities A represent process take place in the particular enterprise to review user expressions or user generated content to search extract and analyze information that impacts the respective enterprises one or more business process. The relation analysis capabilities B represent specific analytics process that focus on relationship among the users and the community. Thus extracting the information and relate to the respective enterprises one or more business process. The areas of interest capabilities C represent results of social network analysis for the purpose of business process.

The user analytics module provides the analytics result associated with user characteristics. The results are generated by consuming analytics services of the enterprises intelligence services. The user analytics module includes at least one of consumer analytics capabilities A or experience analytics capabilities B or interaction analytics capabilities C or an embedded analytics capabilities D or combinations thereof. The consumer analytics capabilities A are consumer specific and the specific results are used to enhance social commerce. The experience analytics capabilities B may represent analytics results based on multiple users online experience for the respective enterprises Web 2.0 features. The interaction analytics capabilities C represents results based on multiple users online interactions on the respective enterprises Web 2.0 features. The embedded analytics D are technology capabilities embedding Web 2.0 related intelligence information within the respective enterprises one or business process.

The information discovery module represents processes and associated results to discover non obvious information. The information discovery module requires an advanced analytics capabilities of the respective enterprise intelligence services. The information discovery module includes at least one of expertise location capabilities A or pattern recognition capabilities B or a predictive modeling capabilities C or combinations thereof. The expertise location capabilities A help the end users to find and contact the experts within the respective enterprises boundaries. The pattern recognition capabilities B involve advanced analytics and represents hidden patterns from the social network analysis module . The predictive modeling capabilities C involves advanced analytics and represents forecasting capabilities with active insights layer to enhance output to the respective enterprise one or business processes.

The social information aggregation module may provide the aggregated information of the multiple users expressions and the community dialogue to generate a single expression. The aggregation process may require several statistical and mathematical functions and the consumer service. The social information aggregation module comprises at least one of an aggregated intelligence A or an aggregated quality rank B to generate the single expression.

The value chain intelligence module may represent analytical processes and results to improve value chain performance of the respective enterprises. The value chain intelligence module may comprise at least one of value chain insight capabilities A or value chain visibility B capabilities. The value chain insights A gathers analytical processes and results for enterprises value chain. The value chain visibility B gathers non analytics information captured from users expression and user generated content of specific external stakeholders with in the respective enterprises value chain.

The dynamic profile management module may be used to manage the profile of the multiple users or the communities dynamically. The dynamic profile management module may include at least one of an user profile management capabilities A or a community management capabilities B or a relationship management capabilities C or a preference management capabilities D or a preference management capabilities E or a relevance management capabilities F or a subscription management capabilities G or a reputation management capabilities H or combinations thereof. The user profile management capabilities A typically manage the multiple users profile within the respective enterprises systems. The user profile management capabilities A manage the multiple users profile and characteristics as relevant for Web 2.0. The community management capabilities B may include maintenance and management of communities characteristics or the type of communities or the corresponding communities manager or the corresponding communities members. The relationship management capabilities C may involve maintenance of users association with the capabilities of the social networking module . The preference management capabilities D may involve user preferences on the widgets or the blogs or etc. The relevance management capabilities E may dynamically derive a list of the Web 2.0 capabilities relevant for potential consumptions by the users. The subscription management capabilities F may enable multiple users to subscribe to notifications. Thus enabling the multiple users to know about the associated changes in social networking module . The reputation management capabilities may enable the respective enterprise to suppress or edit or highlight the user expression capabilities or the community expression capabilities or the user generated content management module . Thus managing reputation of the respective enterprises or its stakeholders without causing damages to the enterprises policies.

The reports module uses core capability of report design and generation from the enterprises information management . The reports specially associated with Web 2.0 capabilities for e.g. report for lists of communities or the report for the list of Blogs or etc.

The alerts and notifications module uses core capabilities of the Web 2.0 including messaging from the enterprises computing infrastructure platform .

The real time intelligence module enables real time information integration and right time delivery of the integrated information within the appropriate communities or users.

In one embodiment of the present technique the capitalization module may include various modules including at least one of a social commerce module or a new business model module or a community marketing module or a product innovation module or a process innovation module or combinations thereof.

The social commerce module may enable the Web 2.0 capabilities from improving the product sales. The social commerce may influence the multiple users during each phase the buying process by deploying and integrating various capabilities of the experience enrichment module or the user participation module and the active insights module . The social commerce comprises at least one of a product evaluation assistance capabilities A or a product recommendations capabilities B or a purchase process enrichment capabilities C or combinations thereof. The product evaluation assistance capabilities A may integrate product reviews with the online buyers. The product recommendations capabilities B may influence the online buyers decisions. The purchase process enrichment capabilities C may enrich the actual online purchase process by providing at least one of a drag drop products into the shopping cart using the RIA or using the single click product purchase or etc.

The new business model sub model provides insights about new business opportunity such as a Software as a Service SaaS Information as a Service IaaS A or a long tail economics B or a community driven business C for the particular enterprises.

The community marketing module may influence or trigger the respective enterprises to understand the needs or wants of the communities. The community marketing module includes the respective enterprise providing a community awareness capabilities A or a target marketing capabilities B or a contextual marketing C or a branding advertisement capabilities D or combinations thereof.

The product innovation module includes at least one of an innovation network capabilities A to automate the process of idea management for new product or a joint development capabilities B to collaborate with the multiple users partners service developers or a product reviews C to involve partners and other external stake holders in process innovation by using social network .

The process innovation module includes process optimization capabilities A to automate the process of idea management for the purpose of new process or a knowledge service B to enable transparency and sharing of process knowledge or a partner network service C to involve the partners and other external stake holders in process innovation by using social network.

In one embodiment of the present technique a knowledge base may be used either to suggest the necessary computing infrastructure changes to the respective enterprises or for suggesting necessary changes or addition of new elements to the current support systems of the respective enterprises or both. The knowledge base may include best practices or check lists which can be referred in suggesting changes addition to support system and computing infrastructure or both.

In one embodiment of the present technique the governance model may includes various phases including at least one of a Web Realization Cycle herein after referred as WRC or a Web 2.0 strategy module or a program management module or a business process module or a agile development module or a measurement metrics module or a maturity module or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WRC may define the lifecycle of Web 2.0 initiatives for the respective enterprises. The significant business benefits may be obvious when the respective enterprise takes one or more full iteration through the WRC lifecycle. The WRC lifecycle further comprises at least one of an engage phase A or an enrich phase B or an empower phase C or an encash phase D or combinations thereof.

The engage phase A may involve building architecture of participation by engaging the multiple users in the respective enterprises one or more business activities. The engage phase A may be configured by creating various channels for collaboration amongst users as well between users and the respective enterprises.

The enrich phase B may include providing multiple users at least one of a richness of visual appeal or an ease of use or variety or combinations thereof. The enrichment phase B may also be implemented by improving the sheer quality and range of products and services that are offered by the respective enterprises.

The empower phase C may involve providing enhanced information and insights to the multiple users to empower the users to make right decisions.

The encash phase D may provide the respective enterprises to fully capitalize on the Web 2.0 by involving integration and extension of one or more Web 2.0 features build during the earlier phases of the WRC life cycle.

In one embodiment of the present technique The respective enterprises may start with any of the engage phase A or enrich phase B and then the respective enterprises may route through empower phase C or encash phase D. The selection of the phase for the respective enterprises is optional and iterative.

The Web 2.0 strategy module of the governance model may help the respective enterprises to identify business goals that need to be accomplished using the Web 2.0. The strategy set using the module helps the respective enterprises to translate the features of the Web 2.0 for the purpose of meeting the business goals of the respective enterprises. The strategy may be devised in a phased manner using the WRC . Based on the demands of the business goals the respective enterprises may choose to take either partial or multiple full iterations through the WRC lifecycle.

The program management module of the governance module may be devised based on the complexity of the Web 2.0 strategy module . The program management module may recommend the respective enterprises to deploy a program management or a program management structure for Web 2.0 strategic module executions.

The business processes module may include the business processes required to support Web 2.0 strategy module .

The development processes module includes agile development process which enable flexibility required to follow the multiple iterations through the WRC . The respective enterprises considering implementation of SaaS IaaS capabilities may essentially require adapting the needs of perpetual beta as per Web 2.0 definition.

The measurement metrics module is a measurement of successful implementation of the WRF in the respective enterprises. The success of Web 2.0 depends on the strategy set as per the Web 2.0 strategy module . The respective enterprises may define the metrics to measure both the efficiency and effectiveness of the chosen Web 2.0 features based on the success factors for the corresponding business goals set from the respective enterprises.

The maturity assessment module is associated with gauging the existing capabilities that demonstrating the Web 2.0 capabilities. The respective enterprises may refer to the various capabilities in WRF integrated layers to assess Web 2.0 maturity level.

In step the process of incorporating the WRF framework as per the requirement of the respective enterprise is started. In step the capabilities of the respective enterprise implementing the Web 2.0 is identified. The identified capabilities of the respective enterprises are assessed by measuring step . The measuring of capabilities of respective enterprises includes a current computing infrastructure and also the plurality of Web 2.0 features required by the respective enterprise step . In step if any features or updates the respective enterprises need to incorporate is suggested. In step the current support system of the respective enterprises is measured to check whether the support systems the respective enterprises have are enough to implement the Web 2.0 features as per the WRF. In step any suggesting necessary changes or addition of new to elements to the current support systems of the respective enterprises is provided. In step the respective enterprises are offered with one or more features of Web 2.0 to maximize the business benefit. In step the respective enterprises are also provided with Web realization cycle WRC for controlled implementation of the WRF in the plurality of enterprises. Step marks the end of the incorporating the WRF as per the requirement of the respective enterprise according to one embodiment of the present technique. The method of incorporating the WRF as per the requirement of the respective enterprises is detailed out in the exemplary example to be illustrated below. In one embodiment of the present technique the steps mentioned above are iterative process and may be followed sequentially. The steps may be followed in a cyclic manner for implementing WRF in respective enterprises. The exemplary example illustrated below should not be restrictive in light of the present technique.

The WRF may be used to shape one or more Web 2.0 features for a respective enterprise one or more business activity. The WRF may be used in defining customized solution tailored to the needs and capabilities of the particular enterprises. The WRF may even provide the basis for a detailed assessment of current IT infrastructure and help identify the initiatives to be taken to realize the benefits of Web 2.0. The WRF may help identify and tailor common enterprise services required to support Web 2.0 capabilities. The phased approach as recited in the WRC life cycle may be used to prioritize different Web 2.0 initiatives in a controlled and phased manner.

While the present invention has been related in terms of the foregoing embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments depicted. The present invention can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Thus the description is to be regarded as illustrative instead of restrictive on the present invention.

One or more of the above described techniques can be implemented in or involve one or more computer systems. illustrates a generalized example of a computing environment . The computing environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality of described embodiments.

With reference to the computing environment includes at least one processing unit and memory . In this most basic configuration is included within a dashed line. The processing unit executes computer executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power. The memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. In some embodiments the memory stores software implementing described techniques.

A computing environment may have additional features. For example the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism not shown such as a bus controller or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The storage may be removable or non removable and includes magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes CD ROMs CD RWs DVDs or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed within the computing environment . In some embodiments the storage stores instructions for the software .

The input device s may be a touch input device such as a keyboard mouse pen trackball touch screen or game controller a voice input device a scanning device a digital camera or another device that provides input to the computing environment . The output device s may be a display printer speaker or another device that provides output from the computing environment .

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer executable instructions audio or video information or other data in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired or wireless techniques implemented with an electrical optical RF infrared acoustic or other carrier.

Implementations can be described in the general context of computer readable media. Computer readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment. By way of example and not limitation within the computing environment computer readable media include memory storage communication media and combinations of any of the above.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our invention with reference to described embodiments it will be recognized that the described embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of the described embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied we claim as our invention all such embodiments as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

