---

title: Indicating states in a telematic system
abstract: A status management system includes a computer-implemented method for delivering status information to a requester, comprising providing status codes, clustering the status codes in a number of status codes clusters, hierarchically sorting the status codes clusters and transmitting at least one of the status codes to the requester depending on the hierarchy of the sorted status codes clusters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569295&OS=09569295&RS=09569295
owner: Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH
number: 09569295
owner_city: Karlsbad
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120713
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from European Patent Application No. EP 11005 732.0 filed Jul. 13 2011 which is incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to telematic connectivity systems in which telecommunication devices exchange information and more particular to the recognition and indication of status states in telematic connectivity systems.

Telematic systems such as those installed in vehicles can be composed of multiple hardware and software components which are interconnected over mobile networks. Applications provided by the telematic systems are influenced by the actual network access device availability connectivity resource sharing issues and provider system configurations and restrictions. As there is such a great variety of factors influencing the perceivable reaction of the application especially in error cases it is necessary to univocally interpret system states status states for the purpose of correct reporting of application states to the users such as via a graphic user interface but also for the purpose of error search diagnostics and recovery.

A status management system may be included as part of another system such as a telematics system may operate in conjunction with a telematics system or may be a standalone system in communication with a telematics system or some other form of status gathering reporting system. The status management system may include a resource management module. The status management system may review a plurality of status codes that indicate the status of one or more systems for which status is desired provided and or determined. In one example the status management system may operate in a vehicle using the status of various systems included in the vehicle.

To avoid misleading or too much status information the status management system may operate to cluster the status codes into a plurality of status codes clusters based on a unique cluster identifier included in each of the status codes. Based on the unique cluster identifiers included in each of the status codes the system may hierarchically rank the status codes clusters. In addition the system may determine status codes that are most applicable to the status of the system s by reviewing the applicability of status codes based on the hierarchical ranking of the corresponding status codes clusters.

Within a selected status codes cluster such as the highest ranked status code cluster the system may review and determine which of the status codes are applicable to a present status of the system s . The status codes included in a respective status codes cluster may be hierarchically ranked according to an importance of the respective task code. Thus the system may use the hierarchical ranking of the status codes in a hierarchically ranked status codes cluster to identify most applicable status code s .

Accordingly the system may use the ranking of the status codes clusters to identify a highest ranked status codes cluster having one or more status codes that are applicable to the present status of the system s . Status codes identified as applicable may be selected and transmitted to provide as a status of the system s . Thus the system may transmit only the most applicable status code from the highest ranked status codes cluster.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

Modern telematic systems can contain some central resource management modules which control the access of the applications to low level connectivity services. The access can be applied in a centralized way also for the purpose of mapping of provider rules to the actual physical states of the system. Based on the states of centralized modules the states of individual applications operating upon the abstraction of this module may be interpreted since the centralized module can possess the information of all applications and their states. Thus the centralized modules may handle the individual applications in a unified manner and can consider associations of the applications with respect to the use of certain media and devices or execution under certain provider rules restrictions. For the purpose of this unification aim the resource management module can apply status codes based on the specific system use cases to report accessibility of applications to the system resources.

The Internet Engineering Task Force IETF has defined standardized groups of status codes for protocols indicating a client application about the state status of the server side based on an explicit request from a client and explicit response from a server. However incorrect error messages based on the status codes and erroneous recognition of application states can result in misleading outputs to users. Thus a telematics system is described herein that provides an improved state and error recognition and indication based on status codes.

An example status management system provides a computer implemented method for delivering status information such as delivery from a resource management module of the telematic system to a requester. The status management system can provide status codes cluster the status codes in a number of status codes clusters hierarchically sort the status codes clusters and transmit at least one of the status codes to the requester depending on the hierarchy of the sorted status codes clusters.

The status management system can include a computer implemented method which can be implemented as a source code in a computer that is part of a telematic system for instance an automotive telematic system. The telematic system may include multiple components besides the computer. The components may communicate with each other and with the computer and the status management system by a communication network. The requester can be a component included as part of the telematic system. The requester can be an application tool or a service tool external to the telematics system. The requester can also be a client internal or external to the telematics system. It should be understood that the requester does not necessarily have to request an application but alternatively or in addition can also be operated in some passive state. The status information can be any information considered valuable in a telematic system and may comprise information about the availability of a component of the telematic system activity of a component of the telematic system and any operation transmission or reception successes faults or interruptions for example.

The status information is delivered to a requester in form of status codes. This encoding of status information includes some standard for the status codes to be observed. In principle any known or proprietary standard for encoding status information is allowable. For example an application such as an application on a mobile phone can send a request for some resource for example some data. In response to the request the a system such as the telematics system can determine the availability of the resource using a component of the telematic system for example a resource manager resource management module of the telematic system. Availability of the resource can be checked and if no availability has been found an appropriate or applicable error status code can be generated and transmitted to the application.

In the telematics system the status codes can be clustered grouped in status codes clusters. Any convenient number of status codes clusters can be chosen. Status codes of one status code cluster are distinguished from status codes of another status codes cluster by some predefined property of status information indicated by the status codes. The status code clusters are hierarchically sorted. The status codes can be employed for encoding and delivering status information as well as some clustering of the status codes in status codes clusters.

In the example status management system the status codes are not only clustered but also the status codes clusters are hierarchically sorted. Each of the provided status codes is contained in a particular status codes cluster of a defined rank within the hierarchy of status codes clusters. Due to the hierarchical structure of the status codes clusters a status code can be transmitted to the requester depending on the hierarchy of the sorted status codes clusters. For example status codes of a particular one of the hierarchically sorted status codes clusters are not at all transmitted under particular conditions and or only status codes of a particular one of the hierarchically sorted status codes clusters are transmitted under particular conditions where the status codes are applicable.

Since the status codes are clustered in hierarchically sorted status codes clusters the status management system allows for the hierarchical evaluation and application of status codes in particular for allowance or disabling of applications or parts or particular features of applications managed in a telematic system. States and error management particularly for end consumer applications can be significantly improved as compared to previous systems due to the hierarchic structure of the status codes clusters. The hierarchical order of the status codes clusters can particularly provide unique recognition of states of a telematic system associated with the corresponding cluster of status codes. Wrong and misleading indication of states can be avoided and the principal cause of some application disability for example in terms of a particular level of error can readily be determined based on the hierarchical rank of the status code transmitted to the requester. Given a typically large amount of signals coming from a telematic system indicating applicable information on the system status for example status codes giving information about provider configurations network device states and resource sharing conditions the hierarchic ordering of status codes clusters reduces error recognition time and system reaction of processing faults.

The IETF standard for status codes for example does not prescribe any order for applying and transmitting status codes in telematics systems. In the example status management system a sequence of the application of status codes can be prescribed due to the hierarchic order of the status codes clusters in which the individual status codes are contained. The level of severity of errors encoded in status codes can thereby univocally be identified. Search processes error tracking for current system application states can thus be optimized with respect to both computational time and memory resources.

The dependence of the step of transmitting at least one of the status codes to the requester based on the hierarchy of the sorted status codes clusters can be specified in any manner that is considered appropriate. For example for particular applications system status requests and or for a requester of a particular class status codes of status codes clusters of particular hierarchical ranks only may be transmitted.

In an example of the status management system one or more applicable status codes of only one or more status codes clusters above or below a predetermined hierarchy rank are transmitted to the requester if a first condition is fulfilled and or no applicable status codes of one or more status codes clusters above or below a predetermined rank are transmitted to the requester if a second condition is fulfilled.

The first and the second conditions can suitably be predefined. The conditions may for example relate to particular classes of requesters applications or diagnosis purposes. Due to the hierarchic ordering of the status codes clusters thus particular kinds of requesters can be provided with particular kinds of status codes for example. Status codes below a predetermined level rank of the hierarchy of the status codes clusters might be considered not necessary for particular applications or requesters and transmission of the same can therefore be avoided. The overall communication of status information can thus be made more efficient and can be simplified.

According to another example of the status management system when an applicable status code of a particular status codes cluster is transmitted to the requester no status code of any status codes cluster with a lower rank in the hierarchy of status codes clusters than the rank of the particular status codes cluster containing the transmitted status code is transmitted to the requester. By avoiding transmission of status codes of status codes clusters of minor ranks transmission and evaluation of status information can efficiently be streamlined.

For example it is first checked for instance by a resource manager included for example in a telematic system whether a status code of a status codes cluster with the highest rank of the hierarchy of status codes clusters is applicable and to be transmitted to the requester and if so no other status code of the other status codes clusters with lower ranks are considered. If however no status code of the status codes cluster with the highest rank is to be applied it is checked whether an applicable status code of a status codes cluster with the second highest rank of the hierarchy of status codes clusters is to be transmitted to the requester and if so no other status code of the other status codes clusters with lower ranks are considered.

In addition to hierarchically sorting status codes clusters the individual status codes of a particular status codes cluster may also be hierarchically sorted. Indication of the severity of errors encoded in the status codes can be thereby be facilitated. In this case transmission of status codes to the requester may depend on the hierarchy of the status codes contained in the hierarchically sorted status codes clusters.

In the above example in principle the at least one of the status codes can be transmitted to the requester automatically in response to a change in an execution environment of the computer where the computer implemented method of the status management system is implemented or a telematic system that includes the computer for example. The examples of the status management system can also be realized in a case wherein the requester is a client and the at least one of the applicable status codes is transmitted by a server to the client in response to a request by the client or due to a subscription to notify the client. Both an active request response procedure and a passive subscription notification procedure can thus be implemented.

As already mentioned any format considered appropriate for the status codes might be defined. It might be considered suitable to define the status codes such that they comprises a unique number indicating uniquely the status code itself as well as the rank of the status codes cluster wherein it is contained. The status code may further comprise a character string indicating the status information. The character string gives status information in a human readable manner.

The status management system may be implemented in a computer system comprising a resource management module that is configured to transmit at least one of multiple applicable status codes clustered in hierarchically sorted status codes clusters to a requester. The one or more multiple status codes may be transmitted depending on the rank of the hierarchy of the status codes cluster within which the at least one of the multiple status codes is contained. The computer system may be part of a telematic system.

The computer system and or the status management system may comprise an Application Programming Interface API configured to transmit the at least one of multiple status codes clustered in the hierarchically sorted status codes clusters to the requester in particular using a communication network. The Application Programming Interface can be realized in the form of a particular set of rules and specifications that applications can follow to communicate with each other. The API can serve as an interface between different software programs and facilitates their interaction.

The requester can be a user application connected to the status management system or the computer system and or a diagnostic service configured to perform diagnosis of the computer system and or applications connected with the computer system.

Moreover an in vehicle communication system can be provided that includes the status management system and or the computer system according to one of the above examples.

In the status management system status codes are provided for transmitting status information in telematic systems in general. The status codes are clustered in status codes clusters. The status codes clusters are sorted in a hierarchical manner. The status codes can principally provide applicable information regarding the status within systems of resources applications and other operational and or functional aspects. For example status codes may include SUBMITTED AWAITING APPROVAL and COMPLETED for indicating a progress of a work item in some workflow system. The status management system can be applied to status codes to report mail system conditions. These status codes may be intended to be used for media and language independent status reporting. They may also be intended for system specific diagnostics. In principle any suitable and known format syntax might be employed for instance status code class.subject.detail wherein the status codes consist of three numerical fields separated by . . The first sub code may indicate whether the delivery attempt was successful. The second sub code may indicate the probable source of any delivery anomalies and the third sub code may indicate a precise error condition.

The status management system can in principle be applied to HTTP status codes. HTTP status codes are standard response codes given by web site servers on the Internet. The applicable codes help identify the cause of the problem when a web page or other resource does not load properly. For example the status management system can be applied to SMTP Status Codes 

The status management system can be used within a Session Initiation Protocol SIP wherein an application layer control signaling protocol for creating modifying and terminating sessions with one or more participants. The sessions may include Internet telephone calls multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences etc. SIP invitations used to create sessions may carry session descriptions that allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types. SIP makes use of elements called proxy servers to help route requests to the user s current location authenticate and authorize users for services implement provider call routing policies and provide some features to users. SIP also provides a registration function that allows users to upload their current locations for use by proxy servers. SIP runs on top of several different transport protocols. For example the Real Time Streaming Protocol is an application level protocol for control over the delivery of data with real time properties and provides an extensible framework to enable controlled on demand delivery of real time data such as audio and video.

Using an example of the status management system any of the clusters where the status codes are contained has a definite rank within a hierarchy of status codes clusters. shows a basic example of status codes clustered in Success Success with unusual event Request possible processed Request partly processed and Request not processed. Cluster is highest in hierarchy rank. According to an embodiment if a status code of cluster is transmitted to a requester no other status code of one of the clusters to will be issued.

A particular example implementation of the status management system includes a computer implemented method for delivering status information to a requester as described with reference to . According to this example the format syntax of status codes the payload of the protocol employing the status codes is of the form xxx.use case name. By xxx numbers in the range form 100 699 specifying six clusters are denoted and the use case name represents a character string giving a short description of a status in a human readable manner. Whereas in the example illustrated in six clusters of a hierarchy of status codes clusters are provided a different number of clusters could be implemented. It is furthermore to be understood that some different format syntax for the status codes can be used. However it is of importance that the status codes clusters are ordered with different ranks in a hierarchy.

According to the example a resource management module of a telematic system determines whether a status code of the highest ranked status codes cluster wherein status codes with a leading integer of 6 xx are contained is to be applied and thus to be transmitted to a requester. For example the xx status codes can be contained in cluster representing a provider status. If there is some restriction present related to the provider one of the xx status codes applies and the respective xx code is transmitted to a requester. For example the applicable xx status code may report a permanent error from a service provider. The provider status in this example dominates over all states indicated by other applicable status codes of the status codes clusters containing the status codes with leading xx to xx. In other words when it is determined that a status code of the status codes cluster with the highest rank lowest one shown on applies otherwise applicable status codes of the other status codes clusters of lower ranking are ignored For example none of them will be evaluated applied or transmitted to a requester.

In this case a resource managing module will not be looking for the applicability of a status code of one of the status codes clusters with lower rank. When an error for example corresponding to a status code of the highest ranked cluster is detected errors indicated by applicable status codes of status codes clusters of lower ranks are of no importance and can be ignored. For instance if on the level of the status codes clusters with the highest rank some status code 611.provider forbids application or 600.service disabled is transmitted further information applicable to this status for example that a device has no network connection or that a device is not configured for actual data is of no use.

If a status associated with a status code xx of the highest ranked cluster for example a provider status is not recognized or found applicable to the present status of a system and no xx status code has to be transmitted to a requester it is determined by the resource managing module whether a status code xx of the second highest ranked cluster for example a persistent device status does apply. If it applies the applicable status code is transmitted to a requester and dominates over all xx xx xx and xx states applicable status codes For example in this case the resource managing module ignores possible errors indicated by the status codes clusters containing xx xx xx and xx status codes that may be applicable. Example possible xx status codes are 500.Harware not accessible or 501.SIM Registration Denied.

If no applicable status associated with a status code xx of the highest ranked cluster or xx of the second highest rank cluster is recognized it is determined by the resource managing module whether an applicable status code xx of the third highest ranked cluster for example a non persistent device status does apply. If it applies it is transmitted to a requester and dominates over all xx xx and xx states possibly applicable status codes . For example in this case the resource managing module ignores possible errors indicated by the status codes clusters containing xx xx and xx status codes that may be applicable. Example possible xx status codes are 400.No Network or 401.Roaming Denied.

If none of the status codes of the higher ranked clusters apply it is determined by the resource managing module whether an applicable status code xx of the fourth highest ranked cluster for example a media status does apply. If it applies it is transmitted to a requester and dominates over all xx and xx states possibly applicable status codes . For example in this case the resource managing module ignores possible errors indicated by the status codes clusters containing xx and xx status codes that may be applicable. In the case of a media error some aspects of an application configuration may make a service partially non runnable in a case in that the service expects availability of a certain media type. Example possible xx status codes are 312.No Voice considering a case wherein USB GPRS modem is connected but does not support voice or 322.Blockes by Voice considering a case in that some application requests for voice where voice is a single system resource and one voice connection is already running within the system and all possible other voice users are blocked.

If none of the status codes of the higher ranked clusters apply it is determined by the resource managing module whether an applicable status code xx of the fifth highest ranked cluster for example a wait status does apply. If it applies it is transmitted to a requester and dominates over all xx possibly applicable status codes For example in this case the resource managing module ignores possible errors indicated by the status codes clusters containing xx status codes. An example status code is 100.Wait As Data Blocked by Voice.

Eventually if none of the status codes of the higher ranked clusters apply it is determined by the resource managing module whether applicable status code xx of the sixth highest ranked cluster for example a wait status does apply. In this case an application session of the system may run successfully or may be successfully runnable. An example status code is 200.Available.

As described with reference to according to an example implementation of the status management system a computer implemented method for delivering status information to a requester may comprise determining whether a status code contained in a highest ranked status codes clusters of a hierarchy of status codes clusters applies and if this is the case no status code of any other lower ranked status codes cluster of the hierarchy of status codes clusters is applied and transmitted to a user.

In addition status codes can be hierarchically sorted with one and the same status codes cluster and it might be preferred that only status codes with a rank above a predetermined rank limit are applied and transmitted to a user under particular conditions. For example under particular conditions for example depending on actually running applications or the class of a service the resource management module such as of a telematic system may be configured to only apply and transmit to a requester one single status code namely the highest ranked appropriate or applicable status code of the highest ranked status codes cluster. Information on application states of a telematic system can therefore be readily provided according to a particular choice of a user implementing the method such that unnecessary processing of status codes can be avoided and errors can be easily and reliably be detected and communicated.

At block the status management system may determine if a status code among the plurality of status codes in a selected status codes cluster are applicable to a present status of the at least one system. The determination of the applicability of the status codes may be performed by sequentially reviewing each of the hierarchically ranked status codes in a selected status codes cluster to determine applicable status codes included in the respective hierarchically ranked status codes cluster.

If at block the status code is determined to be applicable the status management system may select and transmit the applicable status code at block based on the hierarchical ranking of the status codes clusters being reviewed. At block it is determined if any additional status codes should be determined for applicability. If no the operation ends at block and no additional status codes from the current status codes cluster or any other status codes cluster are selected and transmitted. If applicability of additional status codes should be determined at block the operation continues to block to determine if any additional status codes are hierarchically ranked in the presently being reviewed status codes cluster.

If additional status codes are hierarchically ranked in the status codes cluster being reviewed at block the operation returns to block to determine if another status code is applicable. If there are no additional status codes that are hierarchically ranked in the status codes cluster being reviewed the operation proceeds to block to determine if there are any next hierarchically ranked status codes cluster to review. The next hierarchically ranked status codes cluster may be the next lowest ranked status codes cluster and if such a status codes cluster is available the operation may return to block to select the next status code cluster to review and begin determination of applicable status codes in the next selected hierarchically ranked status codes cluster. If at block it is determined there are no additional status codes clusters to review the operation ends at block .

The status management system the resource management module one or more aspects of the status management system or any other device or system operating in conjunction with the status management system may be or may include a portion or all of one or more computing devices of various kinds such as the computer system in . The computer system may include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed. The computer system may operate as a standalone device may be part of another device or may be connected such as using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment or in various other ways. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a telematics system for example in a vehicle. In other examples any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine may be used. The computer system may be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice audio video or data communication. While a single computer system is illustrated the term system may include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP or some combination of different or the same processors. The processor may be a component in a variety of systems. For example the processor may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor may be one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays servers networks digital circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement a software program such as code generated manually or programmed

The processor may operate and control at least a portion of the resource management module . The term module may be defined to include a plurality of executable modules. The modules may include software hardware firmware or some combination thereof executable by a processor such as processor . Software modules may include instructions stored in memory such as memory or another memory device that may be executable by the processor or other processor. Hardware modules may include various devices components circuits gates circuit boards and the like that are executable directed or controlled for performance by the processor .

The computer system may include a memory such as a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one example the memory includes a cache or random access memory for the processor . In alternative examples the memory may be separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory. The memory may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store data.

The memory is operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions acts or tasks may be independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firm ware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

The memory may be computer readable medium or machine readable medium may include any non transitory memory device that includes or stores software for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium or computer readable storage medium may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. The memory may also include a non transitory tangible medium upon which software is stored. The software may be electronically stored as an image or in another format such as through an optical scan then compiled or interpreted or otherwise processed as instructions. The instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic described herein including aspects of the status management system. The instructions may reside completely or partially within the memory or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium may include a single storage medium or multiple storage media such as a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium may also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed. The computer readable medium may be non transitory and may be tangible.

The computer system may or may not further include a display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube CRT a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory .

The computer system may include an input device configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of computer system. The input device may be a keypad a keyboard or a cursor control device such as a mouse or a joystick touch screen display remote control or any other device operative to interact with the computer system . A user of the status management system may for example input criteria or conditions to be considered by the status management system and or the telematics system.

The computer system may include computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video audio images or any other data over the network . The instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via a communication port or interface or using a bus . The communication port or interface may be a part of the processor or may be a separate component. The communication port may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication port may be configured to connect with a network external media the display or any other components in the computer system or combinations thereof The connection with the network may be a physical connection such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed later. The additional connections with other components of the computer system may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. The network may alternatively be directly connected to the bus .

The network may include wired networks wireless networks Ethernet AVB networks or combinations thereof. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 802.1Q or WiMax network. Further the network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols. One or more components of the status management system may communicate with each other by or through the network .

In alternative examples dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices may be constructed to implement various aspects of the status management system. One or more examples described may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. The status management system may encompass software firmware and hardware implementations.

The status management system described may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement various aspects of the status management system.

The status management system is not limited to operation with any particular standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission such as TCP IP UDP IP HTML and HTTP may be used. Replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed may also or alternatively be used.

To clarify the use in the pending claims and to hereby provide notice to the public the phrases at least one of . . . and or at least one of . . . or combinations thereof are defined by the Applicant in the broadest sense superseding any other implied definitions herebefore or hereinafter unless expressly asserted by the Applicant to the contrary to mean one or more elements selected from the group comprising A B . . . and N that is to say any combination of one or more of the elements A B . . . or N including any one element alone or in combination with one or more of the other elements which may also include in combination additional elements not listed.

All previously discussed embodiments are not intended as limitations but serve as examples illustrating features and advantages of the invention. It is to be understood that some or all of the above described features can also be combined in different ways. Thus it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

