---

title: Distributed medical sensing system and method
abstract: A distributed medical sensing system including a first body sensing device configured to sense medical characteristics, the first body sensing device being located in a first sterile field and a second body sensing device configured to sense medical characteristics, the second body sensing device being located in a second sterile field, the second sterile field being spaced from the first sterile field. The system also includes a computing device outside of the first and second sterile fields and communicatively coupled to the first and second body sensing devices, the computing device configured to respectively receive first and second medical characteristic data from the first and second body sensing devices, process the first and second medical characteristic data, and transmit the processed first and second medical characteristic data to respective first and second user interface devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977336&OS=08977336&RS=08977336
owner: Volcano Corporation
number: 08977336
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120921
---
This application is a continuation of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US12 32343 filed on Apr. 5 2012 entitled DISTRIBUTED MEDICAL SENSING SYSTEM AND METHOD which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 473 591 filed on Apr. 8 2011 and incorporated by reference herein. The present application claims the benefit of each of the foregoing applications.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of medical devices and more particularly to sensing and imaging systems and associated methods of use.

Innovations in diagnosing and verifying the level of success of treatment of disease have migrated from external imaging processes to internal diagnostic processes. In particular diagnostic equipment and processes have been developed for diagnosing vasculature blockages and other vasculature disease by means of ultra miniature sensors placed upon the distal end of a flexible elongate member such as a catheter or a guide wire used for catheterization procedures. For example known medical sensing techniques include angiography intravascular ultrasound IVUS forward looking IVUS FL IVUS fractional flow reserve FFR determination a coronary flow reserve CFR determination optical coherence tomography OCT trans esophageal echocardiography and image guided therapy. Each of these techniques may be better suited for different diagnostic situations. To increase the chance of successful treatment health care facilities may have a multitude of imaging and sensing modalities on hand in a catheter lab during a procedure. However each imaging modality in a catheter lab traditionally requires its own special purpose diagnostic equipment. For instance an imaging modality may require a catheter a patient isolation module PIM a user control interface a display a specialized power unit and a processing unit such as a customized personal computer. Traditionally all of this equipment is located in the catheter room itself during a procedure and depends on a substantial wiring infrastructure for network connectivity and dependable power. Physical space is typically at a premium in catheter labs and each additional imaging modality employed in a catheter lab complicates the pre procedure setup and limits the movement of health care professionals during procedures. Additionally known problems arise when attempting to locate portions of a diagnostic system outside of a catheter lab. For instance data transmitted between a PIM and a processing unit may degrade as the distance between the two increases. Similarly traditional long distance communication links do not support the bandwidth required for modern cardiovascular imaging techniques.

While the existing devices and methods have been generally adequate for their intended purposes they have not been entirely satisfactory in all respects. The medical sensing systems and associated methods of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the shortcomings of the prior art.

In one exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a distributed medical sensing system. The system includes a first body sensing device configured to sense medical characteristics the first body sensing device being located in a first sterile field and a second body sensing device configured to sense medical characteristics the second body sensing device being located in a second sterile field the second sterile field being spaced from the first sterile field. The system also includes a computing device outside of the first and second sterile fields and communicatively coupled to the first and second body sensing devices the computing device configured to respectively receive first and second medical characteristic data from the first and second body sensing devices process the first and second medical characteristic data and transmit the processed first and second medical characteristic data to respective first and second user interface devices the first user interface being associated with the first sterile field and the second user interface device being associated with the second sterile field.

In another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of processing medical data. The method includes receiving at a computing device first and second medical characteristic data from respective first and second body sensing devices the first and second body sensing devices being located in respective spaced first and second sterile fields and the computing device being outside of the first and second sterile fields and processing with the computing device the first and second medical characteristic data. The method also includes transmitting with the computing device the processed first and second medical characteristic data to respective first and second user interface devices the first user interface being associated with the first sterile field and the second user interface device being associated with the second sterile field.

In yet another exemplary aspect the present disclosure is directed to a cloud based medical processing system. The system includes a medical sensing device disposed in a sterile field in medical facility and configured to collect medical data from a patient in the sterile field and a site manager disposed in the medical facility coupled to a data network the site manager configured to transmit the medical data off site via the data network and to receive processed medical data via the data network. The system also includes a centralized computing device located off site from the medical facility and communicatively coupled to the site manager via the data network the centralized computing device being configured to receive medical data from the site manager process the medical data transmit processed medical data back to the site manager.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the disclosure is intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described devices instruments methods and any further application of the principles of the disclosure as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. In particular it is fully contemplated that the features components and or steps described with respect to one embodiment may be combined with the features components and or steps described with respect to other embodiments of the present disclosure.

In the present embodiment the medical sensing system is implemented in a health care facility with catheter labs and . As illustrated in each catheter lab and has an associated control room and . The catheter labs and are sterile but their associated control rooms and may or may not be sterile depending on the requirements of a procedure and or health care facility. Each catheter lab control room pair may be used to perform on a patient any number of medical sensing procedures such as angiography intravascular ultrasound IVUS forward looking IVUS FL IVUS a fractional flow reserve FFR determination a coronary flow reserve CFR determination optical coherence tomography OCT computed tomography intracardiac echocardiography ICE intravascular palpography transesophageal ultrasound or any other medical imaging modalities known in the art. For example in catheter lab a patient may be undergoing an IVUS procedure in which a phased array catheter not illustrated is inserted into the patient s arteries. The medical sensing system includes a number of interconnected diagnostic tools in the catheter lab and control room to facilitate this procedure including a patient isolation module PIM a bedside control surface a control room control surface and a boom display . The medical sensing system further includes a bedside utility box BUB in the catheter lab to interconnect these diagnostic tools and to connect to system . That is the BUB is a central hub to which the diagnostic tools in the catheter lab and control room connect to the network based system . In one embodiment each of the PIM bedside control surface and control room control surface connect to the BUB with similar standardized connectors and communicate with the BUB using a standardized protocol. The BUB will be described in greater detail in association with .

Although the BUB is shown as a unit for connecting multiple diagnostic devices to the system it is contemplated that in a further embodiment each diagnostic device may include a communication module that can directly access the system and communicate with one or more other devices connected to the network of system . Such communication modules include processors and or logic to send addressed messages over the network and receive addresses messages from the network. In one aspect the network may utilize the TCP IP protocol for network communication. Such network communications may be made over a wired connection or over a wireless connection.

In the illustrated embodiment the BUB is communicatively coupled to the patient isolation module PIM which is in turn coupled to a sensor device not illustrated that collects medical data from a patient. In general the PIM is a patient communication system that acts as an intermediary between the medical sensing system and data collection sensors. In some embodiments the PIM and the BUB together may be considered a patient communication system. In the above example of IVUS the PIM is the intermediary between the BUB and a phased array catheter. For convenience purposes the PIM may hang from the patient table or may be placed in another location near the patient. The PIM provides power to the phased array catheter by way of its connection to the BUB . Typically different sensory instruments require different amounts of power and thus their associated PIMs may draw different amounts of power from the BUB . The PIM further transmits data collected with the catheter to the BUB . In one embodiment the PIM includes an analog to digital A D converter and transmits digital data to the BUB however in other embodiments the PIM transmits analog data to the BUB. Further in some embodiments the PIM and BUB communicate with a standardized data transmission protocol such as Synchronous Optical Networking SONET . In the illustrated embodiment the PIM and BUB communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link but alternatively the PIM and BUB may wirelessly communicate. Although only one PIM is depicted as connected to the BUB additional PIMs associated with different medical sensing modalities may be connected to BUB . Any such additional PIMs may communicate with the BUB concurrently with the PIM . Additionally in some embodiments such as those in which patient data is collected using angiography the illustrated PIM may be replaced with a C arm. In such embodiments the C arm may act as the power and data intermediary between the actual data collection tools and the system . U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0232933 entitled Component Based Catheter Lab Intravascular Ultrasound System discloses a component based IVUS system that includes a PIM and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The bedside control surface is also communicatively coupled to the BUB and provides user control of the particular medical sensing modality or modalities being used to diagnose the patient . In the current embodiment the bedside control surface is a touch screen that provides user controls and diagnostic images on a single surface. In alternative embodiments however the bedside control surface may include both a non interactive display and separate controls such as physical buttons and or a joystick. In the illustrated embodiment the bedside control surface and BUB communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link but alternatively the control surface and BUB may wirelessly communicate. Further in some embodiments the bedside control surface may be also communicatively coupled directly to the PIM . The bedside control surface includes an integrated processing unit to drive a graphical user interface GUI based workflow presented on the touch screen. In an exemplary embodiment the particular GUI based workflow presented by the bedside control surface depends on the medical sensing modality being used to diagnose the patient . To this end the bedside control surface is capable of displaying multiple GUI based workflows each corresponding to a particular sensor or imaging modality or simultaneous combination thereof. A software framework executing on the bedside control surface manages the multiple workflows. This software framework will be discussed in greater detail in association with . Further in some embodiments the bedside control surface automatically displays an appropriate workflow based on the particular PIM connected to the BUB . In the event that multiple PIMs are coupled to BUB the bedside control surface may present a user with a modality selector screen on which the appropriate GUI based workflow may be selected. U.S. Pat. No. 7 134 994 entitled Multipurpose Host System For Invasive Cardiovascular Diagnostic Measurement Acquisition and Display discloses a multifunction diagnostic system with a multi mode graphical user interface and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0269572 entitled Multipurpose Host System For Invasive Cardiovascular Diagnostic Measurement Acquisition Including An Enhanced Dynamically Configured Graphical Display discloses a method for dynamically switching between cardiovascular diagnostic GUIs and is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The control room control surface in the control room is also communicatively coupled to the BUB and as shown in is adjacent to catheter lab . In the illustrated embodiment the control room control surface and BUB communicate over a wired connection such as a standard copper link or a fiber optic link but alternatively the control surface and BUB may wirelessly communicate. In the current embodiment the control room control surface is similar to the bedside control surface in that it includes a touch screen integrated processing unit and multitude of GUI based workflows corresponding to different medical sensing modalities. During a procedure however the control room control surface may be used to carry out a different aspect of the procedure s workflow than the bedside control surface . In alternative embodiments the control room control surface may include a non interactive display and standalone controls such as a mouse and keyboard. Further the processing unit of the control room control surface may be more powerful than the processing unit of the bedside control surface . In one embodiment the control room control surface may drive the boom display . The boom display may include an array of monitors each capable of displaying different information associated with a medical sensing procedure. For example during an IVUS procedure one monitor in the boom display may display a tomographic view and one monitor may display a sagittal view. In alternative embodiments the boom display may be coupled directly to and driven by the BUB the bedside control surface or another network connected device.

With reference now to the BUB is described in greater detail. is a functional block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of the BUB . The BUB includes connector sockets and . In one embodiment the sockets and may be substantially similar i.e. standardized but in other embodiments each socket may be a dedicated socket specifically configured to cooperate with a specific medical sensing system. As illustrated the BUB includes four connector sockets but alternatively it may include a greater number or fewer number of sockets. Diagnostic tools such as medical sensing devices and user interfaces may connect to the sockets and become part of the network based system . For example PIM may connect to socket bedside control surface may connect to socket and control room control surface may connect to socket . Upon connection of a diagnostic tool to a socket the BUB provides data connectivity and power to that diagnostic tool. In the current embodiment diagnostic tools such as PIM are communicatively coupled to the BUB via a wired connection but alternatively data transfer may be accomplished over a fiber optic link or wireless connection. In the latter case the sockets and may be replaced with a multi connection wireless communication module.

The BUB further includes a controller a switch and a communication module . In one some embodiments the controller may be a low power microcontroller with integrated memory and peripherals. The controller is operable among other things to route data from the sockets and to the communication module via the switch . The switch may be a hardware based switch or may be a software based switch integrated into the communication module . In the current embodiment the controller includes an analog to digital A D converter which the controller may selectively utilize based on whether data incoming from a connected PIM is analog or digital. For example the controller may convert analog data from a PIM to digital data before it is routed to the communication module. Additionally in some embodiments the controller may be operable to associate identifying information with the medical sensing data when it is digitized. More specifically the controller may create a plurality of messages from the incoming analog data stream where each message contains a portion of the digitized medical sensing data and a header. The contents of these messages will be described in more detail in association with . Further in some embodiments where the PIMs digitize the sensing data before transmitting it to the BUBs the PIMs themselves may be operable to create these messages.

Further in the event that multiple medical sensing devices are coupled to the BUB the controller may be operable to facilitate time synchronization among the devices for co registration purposes. For instance in one embodiment the controller may be operable to serve as a master time server for the downstream sensing devices using a network based time synchronization protocol such as the Precision Time Protocol PTP or the Network Time Protocol NTP . In another embodiment the controller may be operable to assign a common timestamp to data as it arrives into the BUB from a plurality of medical sensing devices. Further in another embodiment the controller may communicate with connected medical sensing devices using a synchronous protocol such as Synchronous Optical Networking SONET and may assign timestamps to incoming medical sensing data based on the multiplexed communication. Still further in other embodiments the BUB may include a dedicated real time clock to synchronize sampling by connected medical sensing devices. In such an embodiment the real time clock may distribute a synchronization signal to connected sensing devices and also the controller which may act as a co registration processor. In some embodiments the real time clock may be integrated into the controller .

Further in some embodiments the controller may be operable to modify the medical data received from the medical sensing devices before it is routed to the communication module . For example in some embodiments the controller may compress the data before it is transmitted over the network based system . In this manner large data sets produced by imaging modalities such as OCT may be more efficiently moved over system . In some embodiment the controller may also be operable to filter incoming sensing data in some manner. As mentioned above PIMs in system may communicate directly with the system without the use of BUBs in which case and compression and or filtering of medical data may take place in the PIMs themselves rather than in the BUBs.

The communication module in the BUB is a high speed communication port operable to transmit data between the diagnostic tools connected to the BUB and the distributed medical sensing system . In embodiments in which the system includes a packet based network the communication module is operable to packetize medical sensing data routed through and possibly digitized by the controller address the resulting packets and the send the packets out over the system . In the embodiments in which the controller segments incoming sensing data into messages the communication module may encapsulate the messages into TCP IP packets for transmission over the network based system . In the illustrated embodiment the communication module is an InfiniBand switched fabric communications module however in other embodiments the communications module may be a HyperTransport communication module a fiber optic link module a Gigabit Ethernet module a high speed wireless module or some other high speed link module known in the art. Still further in some embodiments the above A D conversion and packetizing addressing sending functionality of the BUB may be instead embedded into a PIM thereby negating the necessity of a BUB.

The BUB further includes a medical grade power supply unit PSU . The PSU provides power to the controller and the diagnostic tools e.g. medical sensing devices control surfaces connected to the sockets and . Note that the block diagram shown in has been simplified for the sake of clarity. A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that elements of the BUB may be rearranged or combined and that additional elements may be added without changing the functionality described herein. U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 473 625 entitled MEDICAL SENSING COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD and filed on Apr. 8 2011 discloses a bedside utility box that intelligently couples medical sensing related tools and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

With reference back to the distributed medical sensing system includes a second set of diagnostic tools in the catheter lab and associated control room including a PIM a bedside control surface a control room control surface and a boom display . A BUB interconnects the diagnostic tools in the catheter lab and control room and may be similar to the BUB . Like catheter lab catheter lab supports any number of medical sensing modalities. For instance a patient may be undergoing an OCT procedure in which an OCT catheter not illustrated is inserted into the patient s arteries. The OCT catheter is coupled to the PIM which in turn is coupled to the BUB . Similarly the bedside control surface and control room control surface are also connected to the BUB .

Further the distributed medical sensing system includes an additional set of diagnostic tools in the catheter lab and associated control room including a PIM coupled to a BUB . Here a patient may be undergoing yet another procedure for example a FFR procedure in which a pressure sensor at the distal end of a guide wire or catheter is inserted into the patient s body.

The distributed medical sensing system further includes a centralized computer that is operable to manage system resources in the network and also to process medical data collected in catheter labs and . In the illustrated embodiment the centralized computer is a single server type computer but in other embodiments centralized computer may be multiple interconnected computers. A software framework executing on the centralized computer manages the processing of medical data transmitted from the catheter labs. This software framework will be discussed in greater detail in association with . In the current embodiment the centralized computer is located in a server room in the same health care facility as the catheter labs and as such may be separated by tens to hundreds of meters from the catheter labs depending on the size of the health care facility. However in other embodiments the centralized computer may be located outside of the health care facility many kilometers away as discussed later in association with . Further the processing power of the centralized computer is scalable depending on the needs of the health care facility. To this end as illustrated in the medical sensing system includes an array of compute engines communicatively coupled to the centralized computer in the server room . The number of compute engines in the array may be increased or decreased according to processing needs. For example a health care facility that transitions from performing mostly low processor intensive procedures such as FFR to performing mostly processor intensive procedures such as OCT may add additional compute engines to the array thereby increasing the processing power of the centralized computer . In the current embodiment the compute engines in the array are server type computers clustered together in a high speed network however the compute engines may alternatively be networked processors in a massively parallel processor implementation. Further in other embodiments the compute engine array may be implemented with general purpose computing on graphics processing units GPGPUs . In such a scenario each compute engine may be an add in card with an array of graphics processing units GPUs such as a Tesla GPGPU card available from Nvidia Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. When diagnostic data is transmitted to the centralized computer from the catheter labs the computer is operable to process the data in a parallel manner using the compute engine array . U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2009 0093980 entitled Real Time SD OCT With Distributed Acquisition and Processing discloses a system for processing medical data in parallel and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. And U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 344 entitled Integrated System Architectures and Methods of Use discloses an integrated system for collecting and processing medical data and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The diagnostic system further includes a storage array coupled to the centralized computer . In one embodiment the storage array is configured to store patient data in a manner conforming to Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM standards. For example the storage array may archive patient images collected by the various medical sensing modalities in the catheter labs and . Like the compute engine array the storage array is scalable to meet the needs of the health care facility. In the current embodiment the storage array is a storage area network of interconnected storage devices but alternatively it may be an array of hard disks in the centralized computer an array of tape drives or some other scalable storage solution.

The BUBs and are communicatively coupled to the centralized computer by communication interconnects and . In the current embodiment the communication interconnects are InfiniBand links but alternatively may be another type of high speed interconnect such as HyperTransport links or may be high speed wireless communication interconnects. The BUBs and centralized computer and other network devices in the diagnostic system may communicate over the communication interconnects using a secure protocol such as Transport Layer Security TLS over TCP IP. Additionally to help facilitate co registration of multi modality sensing data the BUBs and may communicate with the centralized computer using a synchronized protocol such as SONET. Further to reduce wiring clutter in the catheter labs the interconnects and may extend toward their respective catheter lab underneath the floor in a cable trench and break out of the floor in the labs through cabling ports near their respective BUBs and and make a single connection to the BUBs.

Further a doctor or other health professional may access the medical sensing system through a networked computing device . The computing device may access patient information stored on the storage array or in some embodiments monitor one or more on going procedures in the catheter labs in real time. The computing device may access the system through a wired or wireless network connection using a known communication protocol such as Ethernet or IEEE 802.11. In some embodiments a network bridge may be required to interconnect a standard Ethernet based network and a high speed network such as the above described InfiniBand network. In the current embodiment the computing device is a laptop used by a doctor in a doctor s office but in other embodiments the computing device may be a PC smartphone tablet computer or other device with a network connection located inside or outside of the health care facility. Additionally the medical sensing system may be communicatively coupled to a hospital information system HIS that manages the administrative financial and clinical aspects of the health care facility and also communicatively coupled to a picture archive and communication system PACS of the health care facility. In some embodiments the centralized computer may be operable to request patient workflow data from DICOM servers on the HIS . For instance the centralized computer may use the DICOM patient data to schedule procedures in the catheter labs and also customize workflows for particular patients. The connections to the HIS and PACS may be implemented using a network bridge or some other networking device.

With reference now to the software frameworks executing in the distributed medical sensing system are described in greater detail. is a functional block diagram of a portion of the system including the software framework executing on the bedside control surface and the software framework executing on the centralized computer . The left portion of illustrates one configuration of catheter lab in which two PIMSs an angiography system and the bedside control surface are connected to BUB . Specifically the PIM a PIM and an angiography system are connected to the BUB . In the current embodiment the PIMs and and angiography system are used for different medical sensing modalities and thus the associated workflows are different. However in the exemplary embodiment a health care professional may control all three medical sensing workflows from the bedside control surface . In more detail the bedside control surface includes a software framework in which user interface UI applications for each medical sensing modality may execute within a UI application layer . The software framework also includes a software stack that executes underneath and supports the layer of UI applications . In the current embodiment the software stack exposes a set of application programming interfaces APIs with which the applications in the UI application layer may call to access system resources such as a look and feel toolbox and communication infrastructure.

Using components of the look and feel toolbox each UI application may present a GUI that gives a user control over an imaging or signaling modality workflow and also presents imaging or signaling data collected from the associated PIM and processed by the centralized computer . Further co registration UI applications may present and or combine processed image or signaling data from multiple modalities. For instance a UI application may display an electrocardiogram ECG wave adjacent to IVUS imaging data or may display an IVUS image overlaid with borders that were previously drawn on an OCT image. Such co registration UI applications may harness the parallel processing power of the centralized computer and acquire data from two medical data streams simultaneously to facilitate a real time co registration workflow. In an exemplary embodiment additional UI applications may be added to the application layer to support new medical sensing modalities or co registration techniques developed after the control surface has been deployed. Further the API based software framework allows the UI applications to be independent of the software stack and thus written by third parties to control a custom workflow. As mentioned above in some embodiments the bedside control surface may automatically select the appropriate UI application and thus the appropriate workflow based on the particular PIM connected to the BUB . In the event that multiple PIMs are coupled to BUB as is illustrated in the bedside control surface may present a user with a modality selector screen on which the desired GUI may be selected.

As described in association with the BUB is communicatively coupled to the centralized computer via the communication interconnect . Like the bedside control surface the centralized computer includes an API based software framework in which processing applications associated with medical sensing modalities may execute. In particular the centralized computer includes a software stack that executes underneath and supports a layer of processing applications . Processing applications in the application layer may correspond to a medical sensing modality in use in the health care facility and processes all data for that particular sensing modality. For example every PIM in the health care facility that collects IVUS data may send the data over the system to an IVUS processing application in the application layer on centralized computer . The IVUS processing application may interpret the IVUS data and send image data back over the system to IVUS UI applications on the bedside control surfaces for display. Further in some embodiments the application layer may include co registration applications in which medical sensing data from a plurality of medical sensing devices are co registered and returned to co registration UI applications on control surfaces. To support such co registration applications in one embodiment the software stack may expose one or more time synchronization APIs for use by the applications. For instance the centralized computer may act as a master clock using the NTP or PTP protocols where each BUB in the system is a client or alternatively the computer may include a dedicated real time clock. In either case co registration applications in the application layer may have access to synchronization data via APIs exposed by the software stack . U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 473 570 entitled MULTI MODALITY MEDICAL SENSING SYSTEM AND METHOD and filed on Apr. 8 2011 discloses a computing resource with a similar modular API based software framework capable of processing multi modality medical sensing data and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The software stack executing on the centralized computer is operable to utilize the parallel processing power of the compute engine array . As such the processing applications can process signaling and imaging data from multiple on going procedures concurrently. In this regard in some embodiments the software stack may intelligently make use of the computing resources available to centralized computer by identifying generic computing tasks common to concurrently executing processing applications. For example the software stack may determine that two processing applications associated with different modalities each need to perform filtering image processing and scan conversion processes on incoming sensing data. Once these common tasks are identified the software stack may utilize a library of parallel algorithms to process these tasks concurrently.

Further after processing medical sensing data for a procedure the processing applications may store the data in the storage array . Additionally the processing applications may manage the workflows for the associated UI applications installed on the control surfaces. In an exemplary embodiment additional processing applications may be added to the application layer to support new medical sensing modalities and new UI applications on the control surfaces. For example to support a new medical sensing modality a third party may develop a new catheter based sensor new PIM new UI application and new processing application. In such a scenario the new PIM may connect to BUB the new UI application may be installed onto the existing control surface and call the APIs exposed by the software stack and the new processing application may be installed onto the centralized computer and call the APIs exposed by the software stack .

With reference now to illustrated is a message format utilized by the distributed medical sensing system in one embodiment of the present disclosure. As mentioned above in some embodiments a BUB may convert incoming medical sensing data into a plurality of messages containing digitized sensing data and associated identifying information. illustrates an example message . The message includes a header and a payload . The payload includes digitized medical sensing data collected with the medical sensing devices in system . The header includes information associated with the sensing data in the payload . In more detail the header includes a patient info portion and a data info portion where the former generally includes information about the patient and procedure from which the medical sensing data came and the latter generally includes information about the data characteristics. More specifically in the illustrated embodiment the patient info portion of header includes blocks and that respectively contain procedure date and time procedure location e.g. health care facility catheter lab etc patient identification e.g. name social security number date of birth etc and doctor identification e.g. name license number etc . In some embodiments the patient info portion may additionally contain security access information that limits where or by whom the sensing data may be viewed. As illustrated the data info portion of the header includes blocks and that respectively contain a timestamp modality of the sensing data analog to digital conversion information compression info and a workflow ID. In one embodiment the timestamp in block may correspond to the point in time the data in payload was collected. This timestamp may be used to facilitate co registration of the sensing data with data of a different modality. The modality information in block may include the modality of the data in payload e.g. IVUS OCT etc and in some embodiments may also include the information about the specific medical sensing device with which the data was taken. The A D information in block may include information pertaining to the manner in which the sensing data in payload was digitized for example sampling rate information and error correction information. The compression information in block may include a flag indicating whether the data in payload is compressed and if necessary the type of compression with which it is compressed. Finally the workflow identification in block may identify the workflow in which the data in payload was collected. In some embodiments this information may enable the centralized computer to determine which processing application should process the data in payload . And it may enable a control surface in a catheter lab to determine which UI application should display the data once it is processed. The example message is only one embodiment of a message that may be utilized in system and in other embodiments the system may utilize a different message format that includes additional and or different information.

Further in some embodiments when a BUB first establishes a data connection with the centralized computer to send medical sensing data it may initially send one or more messages containing information similar to message . But after the data connection has been established the BUB may send messages with a smaller header containing only essential information such as a connection identifier and a timestamp. In such a scenario the centralized computer may store the remainder of the header info and associate it with the connection identifier. In this manner medical sensing data may be more efficiently transmitted over the network based system . The shortened message is only one embodiment of a message that may be utilized in system and in other embodiments the system may utilize a different shortened message format that includes additional and or different information. Or the system may not use a shortened message format at all.

With reference now to illustrated is a different message format utilized by the distributed medical sensing system in another embodiment of the present disclosure. illustrates an example message . The message includes a header and a payload . Like the payload of message the payload includes digitized medical sensing data collected with the medical sensing devices in system . However the header associates different information with the sensing data than the header of message . The header includes blocks and that respectively hold a unique universal identifier UID and a timestamp or sequence number . Generally the UID in block is used to associate the data in payload with data acquisition information stored in the centralized computer . In more detail during the preparatory stages of a data acquisition workflow the centralized computer may allocate a UID and associate it with a storage location in the storage array and a processing chain in the compute engine array . Further the centralized computer may push the UID down to the medical sensing tools that will be used in the procedure. Thus when data acquisition starts the BUB or in some embodiments the PIM may tag the collected data with the UID by inserting it into the message header. In this manner identifying information about the data such as patient identify doctor identify procedure date time location data modality data compression PIM identify catheter identify may be centrally stored on the centralized computer rather than stored in a message. Further in some embodiments the centralized computer may allocate a different UID to associate with a processed version of medical sensing data. A network connected user interface such as bedside control surface may then access the processed data using the associated UID. Still further if one set of medical sensing data has multiple processed versions each processed version may be associated with a different UID. In this manner different user interfaces may specifically access different processed versions depending on the display capabilities of the user interface.

With reference now to and in operation the distributed medical sensing system is a distributed computational and storage solution for multiple modality medical sensing. Generally in system medical signaling and imaging data is collected by sensing instruments in catheter labs but processed and stored in a centralized remote location and returned to the catheter labs for analysis by health care professionals.

For example if the patient is to undergo an IVUS procedure in catheter lab a technician or doctor connects a phased array catheter and associated PIM to the BUB before the procedure. Upon connection the bedside control surface automatically displays the GUI associated with the IVUS procedure so a technician may start the IVUS workflow. As mentioned above the centralized computer may customize the IVUS workflow based on patient data retrieved from DICOM servers in the HIS . When the patient is ready a health care provider inserts the sterile catheter into the patient s arteries and begins gathering tissue characteristic data. The PIM sends the data to the BUB which in turn routes the data to the centralized computer in the remote server room . In the centralized computer an IVUS processing application in the application layer interprets the tissue data and transforms it into IVUS image data. To decrease turn around time the software stack may split up the workload and process the data in parallel using multiple compute engines in the array . After processing is complete the processing application may store the image data in the storage array . The centralized computer returns the processed image data to the control room and the BUB routes it to the bedside control surface and the control room control surface . An IVUS UI application in the application layer presents the image data to the user of the bedside control surface as part of the IVUS workflow. At the same time an IVUS UI application in the control room control surface may present the processed diagnostic data in a different manner to a user of the control room control surface. The control room control surface may also drive the image data to the boom display . In this manner the health care professionals carrying out the IVUS procedure may simultaneously execute multiple tasks within the workflow or simultaneously execute multiple workflows. For instance a doctor manipulating the catheter may view a tomographic perspective of the procedure on the boom display while a bedside technician controls the workflow from the bedside control surface and a second technician in the control room traces borders on the image data in real time using the control room control surface . In the case of the border tracing workflow the centralized computer may selectively provide the control room control surface with IVUS image frames on which borders may be drawn. The control room control surface may then send the centralized computer the annotated IVUS images so that they may be archived. In this manner a clinician operating the control room control surface may simultaneously and independently work on the medical sensing data being acquired in the adjacent catheter lab.

While the health care professionals perform the IVUS procedure in the catheter lab the medical sensing system may simultaneously support an OCT procedure in the catheter lab . In such a case when the patient is ready a doctor connects an OCT catheter and associated PIM to the BUB the bedside control surface presents the OCT workflow GUI and the doctor begins collecting data. The BUB routes the raw OCT data to the centralized computer where an OCT processing application in the application layer interprets the data. To process the OCT data efficiently the software stack assigns the data to compute engines not already processing data for the concurrent IVUS procedure. After the OCT image data has been processed it is stored in the storage array and returned to the BUB in the catheter lab where it is routed to the control surfaces and . OCT UI applications executing in the application layers present the image data to the doctor and technicians performing tasks in the OCT workflow.

Further the medical sensing system may simultaneously support a third procedure in catheter lab such as an FFR procedure in which FFR data is sent to centralized computer for processing by an FFR processing application. Although depicts only three catheter labs one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the medical sensing system may simultaneously support additional diagnostic procedure in additional catheter labs. Also additional or different diagnostic procedure may be performed in the catheter labs and . For instance three OCT procedures may be simultaneously performed in the catheter labs and whereby the centralized computer may process the OCT data from the labs in parallel using the compute engine array .

Additionally multiple medical sensing modalities may be used concurrently in a single catheter lab. For instance clinicians in catheter lab may carryout a multimodality workflow that utilizes both IVUS and OCT imaging data. In such a case a UI application on the bedside control surface may coordinate the collection of data with two catheters. PIMs associated with the two catheters may be active and transmitting data to the centralized computer where a co registration processing application may interpret and co register the image data. The co registered data may then be returned to catheter lab and a co registration UI application may display synchronized images on the bedside control surface and if desired boom display .

As mentioned above the distributed medical sensing system may include time synchronization elements to facilitate co registration of data from different modalities. Temporal co registration may be accomplished in different ways using system . First time synchronization among devices in system may be accomplished with network time synchronization using a network based time synchronization protocol such as Precision Time Protocol PTP or Network Time Protocol NTP . In such a case the centralized computer may act as a grand master clock where the BUBs in the system are the clients. In turn the BUB may act as master time servers for sensing and control devices downstream of them in the catheter labs. Through this protocol all medical sensing devices may be synchronized to within 100 s or better. Data acquisition may then be controlled i.e. started stopped at a pre determined time by workflows executing on control surfaces. In this scenario data is collected and time stamped by each medical sensing device and forwarded through the system to the centralized computer for processing and archival. By having a timestamp based on a mutual clock any sample from one data set may be matched temporally with a sample from another even where the sample periods are not common and sampling clocks drift from the mutual network clock. As an example in this embodiment clinicians in catheter lab may carry out a multimodality workflow by using a Forward Looking Intracardiac Echo FLICE device and functional measurement pressure wires where each is coupled to BUB via their associated PIMs. In this case BUB is a local time server and each of these sensing devices is a time protocol client. After the catheters are positioned in the patient the respective devices collect timestamp and forward data to the BUB where it is forwarded to the centralized computer . A co registration processing application in the application layer reassembles the data into matched sets according to timestamps i.e. matches FLICE frames to pressure samples and sends the co registered processed data to the bedside control surface for display. A UI application in the application layer renders the pressure waves and moving FLICE images on the screen.

In other embodiments rather than have the medical sensing devices themselves apply timestamps the BUBs in system may apply the timestamp at receipt of the sensing data before forwarding it on to the centralized computer for processing. In this manner it is possible to get time stamped data without requiring the medical sensing devices to act as a time protocol client. This is advantageous for legacy devices third party devices without network time protocol support and devices that only transmit analog data to the BUBs. Further in other embodiments the centralized computer may timestamp data as it arrives from medical sensing devices on the system .

Second time synchronization among devices in medical sensing system may be accomplished with real time clocks driving synchronized sampling by medical sensing devices. As mentioned above in some embodiments the BUBs may include a dedicated real time clock. In this scenario synchronization signals from this clock may be distributed to the medical sensing devices coupled to the BUB and also a co registration processor e.g. the controller in BUB or the centralized computer . The synchronization signal may be carried by an individual conductor from the BUBs to the medical sensing devices or may be bundled into a system cable that carries network signals and power to the sensing devices. This synchronization signal may be a traditional square wave clock signal or a periodic edge based synch signal. In either case the signal may be divided down or used as is to produce a synchronization event on all sensing devices with a period less than or equal to the desired synchronization accuracy. A timestamp consisting of the enumerated counts of synchronization events may then be applied to collected data by each of the BUB connected devices to identify a particular instant in time on a common time base.

With reference now to illustrated is a method for synchronizing data acquisition from multiple medical sensing devices coupled to the BUB . Specifically illustrates time synchronization in an embodiment in which the controller in BUB acts as a co registration processor for medical sensing devices and coupled to the BUB . In this embodiment the BUB includes a real time clock that sends a synchronization signal to both the controller and the sensing devices and . During a initialization phase the controller oversees the setup of network connections to the medical sensing devices and connected to the BUB and ensures they are in a state to begin synchronous data acquisition. Specifically during the initialization phase the controller initially sends network messages to zero each sensing device s timestamp. Then during a synchronization phase the controller requests timestamps from each device a number of times in synchronization with the synch signal until the sensing devices and are consistently reporting the same timestamp. If a timestamp received from one device is behind another due to network congestion when sending the zero command or the request time command the controller will command the slower device to advance its timestamp by the difference between the two timestamps. This process is repeated until sensing devices and consistently report the same timestamp. At that time a common time base is established. In embodiments using a broadcast capable network the need to adjust timestamps on any sensing device may seldom be seen. Next during a data acquisition phase and after a common timestamp has been established between sensing devices and controller sends a message to start synchronized data acquisition at a common time in the future. This start time is chosen to allow enough time for each sensing device to prepare for full data rate acquisition in synchronization with the real time clock. When the start time arrives the sensing devices and begin collecting time stamping and forwarding data to the controller .

Third time synchronization among sensing devices in medical sensing system may be accomplished with the use of a synchronous network such as SONET. As mentioned above in some embodiments the centralized computer may communicate with the BUBs using the SONET protocol and the BUBs in turn may communicate with the medical sensing devices coupled to them using SONET. In such a scenario time division multiplexing TDM is used to synchronize data sent from the BUBs to the centralized computer . For example if two sensing devices are coupled to BUB the communication channel from the BUB to the centralized computer may be divided into timeslots where data from each sensing device is assigned one or more timeslots. If one of the sensing devices generates more data than the other per unit time e.g. FFR vs. OCT the data heavy device may be dynamically assigned a greater number of timeslots. In any case the medical sensing devices are each connected to the BUB over a synchronous link with a throughput that is a divisor of the throughput of the communication interconnect from the BUB to the centralized computer . Based on clinician input and known medical sensing device characteristics possibly determined dynamically the BUB may allocate timeslots to each device according to the workflow in the catheter lab . The BUB may relay this timeslot configuration to the centralized computer where it may be stored for future reference. After the medical sensing devices have been assigned timeslots as above the devices begin streaming data to the BUB . At the co registration begin time a user defined start point or occurrence of some other identified condition each TDM packet and all sub channels of those packets are assigned a monotonically increasing timestamp based on the packet number packet size number of channels configured in the timeslot map and communication interconnect bandwidth. Synchronized timestamps may then be applied to the data by the BUB or the centralized computer .

Additionally in some embodiments the distributed medical sensing system may be used to temporally co register data acquired at substantially different times. In such embodiments the centralized computer may rely on a highly accurate time server which retains its frequency with high precision over long periods of time. Internet time servers using atomic clocks as master clocks commonly provide this functionality. The centralized computer may alternatively have its own atomic clock in the system . In general to co register data sets acquired at different times the timestamp of the first sample of each data set is subtracted from each sample leaving only a delta time between samples. The two data sets may then be treated as if they were acquired simultaneously. For example in one embodiment OCT data may first be collected from the patient in catheter lab processed by centralized computer and stored in data store array . Then at a later time IVUS data may be collected from the patient processed by centralized computer and stored in data store array . In each case the data may be time stamped using one of the above described methods. In another embodiment this common frequency controlled clock may be used to co register sensing data from two sequential acquisitions during the same procedure. For example the common clock may be used to co register data from a pre stent IVUS pullback and data from a post stent IVUS pullback.

To co register the collected and time stamped OCT and IVUS data a co registration processing application in the application layer on the centralized computer may retrieve the data sets from the data store array and subtract the first timestamp of each data set from all other timestamps in the sets. The co registration processing application through interaction with a clinician via a UI application on the bedside controller or through an automatic location detection algorithm chooses a data frame in each of the data sets that correspond to the same physical location in patient . The timestamps of these two frames are then subtracted which gives an offset of timestamps between the data sets. Finally this offset is subtracted from all timestamps in the data set with the greater value at the matched frame so that the timestamps corresponding to the matched frames in each stack are equal. Additionally in other embodiments a similar method may be utilized to co register archived data with data collected in real time.

Further the network centric design of the distributed medical sensing system may be advantageously utilized to perform any number of telemedicine tasks. For example medical sensing data collected in catheter lab and processed by the centralized computer may be accessed by any number of network connected devices outside of catheter lab for training purposes consultation purposes etc. In addition to enabling remote non interactive viewing the system may provide remote interactive access to ongoing workflows. For instance a consulting doctor in a remote health care facility may monitor a catheterization procedure and take control of the workflow if the need arises. In another example a clinician performing an IVUS procedure in catheter lab may request that a clinician performing a different procedure in catheter lab momentarily take control of the IVUS workflow or ask for a second opinion of an IVUS image returned by the centralized computer . In such a case the centralized computer would direct the boom display and control surface in catheter lab to temporarily display the IVUS workflow from catheter lab . Interactivity may be further expanded such that an entire workflow may be controlled by a network connected clinician outside of the catheter lab. For example robotic data collection tools may be connected to the system through a BUB or other networked device. In such a scenario the system may provide remote control functionality to a remote clinician through a graphical user interface with appropriate robot centric controls.

Referring now to shown is a schematic drawing depicting a distributed medical sensing system according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. The medical sensing system is similar to the medical sensing system shown in and may be alternatively implemented in the health care facility with the catheter labs and . Like medical sensing system medical sensing system utilizes centralized computing and storage to support diagnostic procedures in the catheter labs however in system the computing and storage resources are located off site i.e. in the cloud .

In more detail the medical sensing system includes a site manager stored in the centrally located server room . In an exemplary embodiment the site manager is a computer communicatively coupled to the BUBs and via the communication interconnects and and is operable to coordinate use of cloud resources and remote management. More specifically the site manager is operable to schedule data processing jobs for the medical sensing workflows in the catheter labs and . To mitigate against slower or un reliable cloud networks the site manager may be configured to temporarily store data acquired locally before forwarding the data to the centralized computer . When the site manager receives acknowledgement of successful storage of the data in the storage array and or receipt of processed data from the compute engine the site manager may then safely discard the temporary local copy of the data. Further in some embodiments the site manager may be configured to encrypt the unprocessed diagnostic data according to DICOM standards before sending it offsite for processing.

The medical sensing system further includes a centralized computer an array of compute engines and a storage array all stored in an off site processing center . The off site processing center may be remote from the health care facility in that it may be located in different city state or country. The centralized computer array of compute engines and storage array are scalable to meet the needs of the processing center and may be similar to the centralized computer array of compute engines and storage array of . The computing resources in processing center may be generally more powerful than those depicted in because processing center may serve the processing needs of many health care facilities. Like the centralized computer the centralized computer includes a software framework with a software stack similar to software stack and a processing application layer similar to application layer . The processing application layer in centralized computer thus includes processing applications corresponding to the types of medical sensing modalities performed at the health care facilities serviced by the processing center and also may include co registration processing applications used by the health care facilities. In some embodiments the processing center may be managed independently of the health care facilities it services and health care facilities may be charged for the use of the processing center. In one embodiment health care facilities may be charged per procedure for the use of the computing resources in the processing center .

The centralized computer in the processing center is communicatively coupled to the site manager via a communication interconnect . The communication interconnect is a long distance broadband connection operable to quickly transfer large datasets from the health care facility to the processing center and back. In one embodiment the communication interconnect may be a 10 Gigabit Ethernet link or but in other embodiments it may be another type of long distance broadband connection such as an ATM over SONET OC 12 or better link.

Although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the present disclosure may be employed without a corresponding use of the other features. For example in some embodiments the centralized computing resources of the medical sensing system may be used to process non cardiovascular diagnostic data such data from cranial or peripheral arteries as well as data from non vascular body portions. Further the system may be used to collect and process MRI data or may be utilized in computer assisted surgery CAS applications. It is understood that such variations may be made in the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the present disclosure.

