---

title: Device, method, and system for portable configuration of vehicle controls
abstract: A device, method, and system for portable configuration of vehicle controls includes a mobile communication device configured to communicate with an in-vehicle computing system of a vehicle. The mobile communication device stores user vehicle configuration settings, which are selectively transmitted to the in-vehicle computing system to cause the in-vehicle computing system to adjust vehicle controls based on the user vehicle configuration settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426274&OS=09426274&RS=09426274
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09426274
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
Mobile communication devices are becoming ubiquitous tools for personal business and social uses. While the main use for mobile communication devices likely remains communication the processing power and storage of modern mobile communication devices continues to increase thereby allowing advance processing and data storage to occur on such devices. For example many users of modern smart phones utilize those phones both for communication and as computer platforms for storing personal business and social data and executing various software applications. The mobility of such communication devices provides the benefit of allowing a user s data to travel with the individual.

Contemporary motor vehicles often include extra controls to allow personal configuration of various features of the vehicle. Such controls may include ergonomic controls that allow a vehicle occupant to for example adjust the viewing angle of the side mirrors modify the tilt of the steering wheel position the seat in numerous directions modify the height of the pedals and or control other ergonomic features of the motor vehicle that may improve the human interfacing of the motor vehicle. Additionally the extra controls may include comfort controls that allow the vehicle occupant to for example preset a number of radio stations set climate control targets adjust window positioning set defaults or enter data to various electronic sub systems e.g. a navigation system of the vehicle and or control other control features of the motor vehicle that may improve the comfort of the vehicle occupant. The extra controls may also include mechanical controls that allow the vehicle occupant to for example modify the power mapping of an engine of the vehicle adjust the shift schedule of a transmission of the vehicle select a performance mode of the vehicle and or other mechanical features of the motor vehicle that may adjust or modify the performance or operational state of the vehicle.

Generally a vehicle occupant must interface with the various controls via a switch button knob touch screen or other physical input device of the vehicle. As such the vehicle occupant must first enter the vehicle and subsequently spend the time to adjust all of the various controls. Such manual adjustment can become cumbersome in those situations in which multiple drivers operate the vehicle at different times which requires each driver or passenger to readjust the controls to their personal settings after every use of the vehicle by another driver or passenger .

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to in one embodiment a system for the portable configuration of vehicle occupant controls of a vehicle includes a mobile communication device and an in vehicle computing system which is located in the vehicle . As discussed in more detail below the mobile communication device maintains user vehicle configuration settings for vehicle occupant controls e.g. ergonomic comfort and or mechanical controls of the vehicle and communicates such user vehicle configuration settings to the in vehicle computing system . In response the in vehicle computing system implements the user vehicle configuration settings to adjust the vehicle occupant controls. In this way a user of the mobile communication device may quickly and automatically adjust the vehicle occupant controls to his her liking without the need of manually adjusting each control. Additionally because the mobile communication device stores the user configuration settings the user need not remember the amount or level of adjustment the user has determined through experience or knowledge to be optimal for him her. Further as the mobile communication device can store multiple user vehicle configuration settings the mobile communication device may be used to interface with in vehicle computing systems of different vehicles to adjust vehicle occupant controls based user settings from the same or different users of the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may be embodied as any type of mobile communication device capable of communicating with the in vehicle computing system and performing the functions described herein. For example the mobile communication device may be embodied as but not limited to a smart phone a tablet computer a notebook computer a mobile internet device a mobile computing device a personal digital assistant a cellular phone a messaging device a laptop computer a portable data storage device having communication capabilities and or other portable computing devices capable of communicating with the in vehicle computing system . Of course it should be appreciated that the system may include additional mobile communication devices in some embodiments. For example each occupant of the vehicle may have a mobile communication device having similar features as those described below with regard to the mobile communication device and configured to perform similar functions.

In the illustrative embodiment of the mobile communication device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage a communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard or main board of the mobile communication device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the mobile communication device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a computer and or computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the mobile communication device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the mobile communication device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the mobile communication device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the mobile communication device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In other embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the mobile communication device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Those signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the various components of the mobile communication device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of point to point links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces vias bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the mobile communication device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the mobile communication device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In the illustrative embodiment the mobile communication device maintains one or more user vehicle configuration settings in the data storage . As discussed in more detail below the user vehicle configuration settings is embodied as data usable by the in vehicle computing system to adjust various vehicle occupant controls. The particular make up and format of the user vehicle configuration settings may vary depending on for example the type of vehicle the type of in vehicle computing system the type and number of vehicle occupant controls of the vehicle and or other features or factors related to the vehicle . Additionally it should be appreciated that the mobile communication device may store a plurality of user configuration settings in data storage such as user vehicle configuration settings for different users and or different vehicles.

The communication circuitry of the mobile communication device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the mobile communication device and the in vehicle computing system as discussed in more detail below. The communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more communication technology and associated protocols to communicate with the in vehicle computing system . For example in one particular embodiment the communication circuitry is embodied as a wireless communication circuitry configured to communicate with the in vehicle computing system using a wireless communication protocol such as Bluetooth Wi Fi WiMAX and or other wireless communication circuitry.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device may also include one or more peripheral devices . Such peripheral devices may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a display a graphics circuitry a keypad or keyboard a speaker and or other input output devices interface devices and or peripheral devices.

The in vehicle computing system may be embodied as any type of vehicle computing system capable of performing the functions described herein. For example the in vehicle computing system may be embodied as or otherwise include an in vehicle occupant controls system an in vehicle infotainment system and or other in vehicle computing system or sub system. In the illustrative embodiment of the in vehicle computing system includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . Of course it should be appreciated that the in vehicle computing system may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in in vehicle computing system and similar computing systems which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the in vehicle computing system may be embodied as any type of processor or processing circuitry capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the in vehicle computing system may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the in vehicle computing system may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the in vehicle computing system . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In other embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the in vehicle computing system on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Those signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the various components of the in vehicle computing system . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of point to point links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces vias bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the in vehicle computing system may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the in vehicle computing system may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In the illustrative embodiment the in vehicle computing system may store user vehicle configuration settings in the data storage .

The communication circuitry of the in vehicle computing system may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the in vehicle computing system and the mobile communication device . As discussed above with regard to the communication circuitry the communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more communication technology and associated protocols to communicate with the mobile communication device . As such in one particular embodiment the communication circuitry is embodied as a wireless communication circuitry configured to communicate with the in vehicle computing system using a wireless communication protocol such as Bluetooth Wi Fi WiMAX and or other wireless communication circuitry.

The in vehicle computing system may also include one or more peripheral devices . Such peripheral devices may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a display a graphics circuitry a keypad or keyboard a speaker and or other input output devices interface devices and or peripheral devices.

In some embodiments the in vehicle computing system may also include one or more ergonomic control circuitry comfort control circuitry and or mechanical control circuitry . Each of the circuitries is configured to control corresponding vehicle occupant controls. For example the ergonomic control circuitry may control any one or more ergonomic control of the vehicle . Such ergonomic controls may include but are not limited to the viewing angle controls of the side mirrors steering wheel tilt controls vehicle seat positioning controls pedal positioning controls shifter positioning controls and or controls for adjusting any other ergonomic feature of the vehicle that may modify and or improve the human interfacing of the vehicle . The comfort control circuitry may control any one or more comfort control of the vehicle . Such comfort controls may include but are not limited to temperature controls radio controls window controls volume controls backup indicator controls internal lighting controls and or controls for adjusting any other comfort feature of the vehicle that may modify and or improve the comfort of a vehicle occupant. The mechanical control circuitry may control any one or more mechanical control of the vehicle . Such mechanical controls may include but are not limited to engine power mapping controls vehicle performance mode controls acceleration curve controls and or controls for adjusting any other mechanical feature of the vehicle vehicle that may modify and or improve the performance or operational state of the vehicle .

Referring now to in one embodiment the mobile communication device may establish an environment during operation. The illustrative environment includes a vehicle configuration management module and a communication module each of which may be embodied as software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. As discussed in more detail below the vehicle configuration management module is configured to maintain the user vehicle configuration settings and communicate with the in vehicle computing system via the communication module to transfer the user vehicle configuration settings or an identifier of such settings thereto. Additionally the vehicle configuration management module may communicate with the in vehicle computing system via the communication module to receive new or current vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle and store such current settings in the data storage . Further in embodiments in which multiple user vehicle configuration settings are stored on the mobile communication device the vehicle configuration management module may provide for user selection of one or more of the plurality of stored user vehicle configuration settings .

Referring now to in one embodiment the in vehicle computing system may establish an environment during operation. The illustrative environment includes a vehicle configuration management module and a communication module each of which may be embodied as software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The vehicle configuration management module is configured to monitor manage and control various vehicle occupant controls of the vehicle. For example in the illustrative embodiment the vehicle configuration control module may include an ergonomic control module to control the ergonomic control circuitry a comfort control module to control the comfort control circuitry and or a mechanical control module to control the mechanical control circuitry . As discussed in more detail below the vehicle configuration control module may communicate via the communication module with the mobile communication device to receive and or transfer vehicle configuration settings.

Referring now to in use the mobile communication device may execute a method for retrieving vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system . The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device establishes a connection with the in vehicle computing system . As discussed above the communication circuitries may use any suitable communication technology and protocol to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the mobile communication device may perform a pairing process in block to pair with the in vehicle computing system to establish a communication link therebetween.

In block the mobile communication device receives the current vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system . As discussed above the vehicle configuration settings may be embodied as any type of data usable by the in vehicle computing system to adjust various vehicle occupant controls. In some embodiments the user of the mobile communication device may initially manually adjust one or more vehicle occupant controls in block to the user s liking. For example the user may adjust the seat positioning the temperature control and the performance mode of the vehicle . After the user has adjusted the vehicle occupant controls to his her liking the user may operate the mobile communication device to request the current vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system in block . Subsequently in block the mobile communication device receives the current vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system . In some embodiments the mobile communication device may receive only recently modified or updated vehicle configuration settings e.g. only settings for those vehicle occupant controls adjusted within a pre defined time period . Alternatively the mobile communication device may receive a complete set of current vehicle configuration settings in block .

In block the mobile communication device stores the current vehicle configuration settings as user vehicle configuration settings in the data storage . In some embodiments the user vehicle configuration settings may be stored in association with other data in block . For example the user vehicle configuration settings may be stored in association with a vehicle identifier that identifies the vehicle e.g. uniquely identifies the vehicle from other vehicles for which user vehicle configuration settings have been stored in the data storage . Additionally or alternatively the user vehicle configuration settings may be stored in association with a user identifier that identifies the current user of the mobile communication device . Further in some embodiments the user vehicle configuration settings may be stored in association with a priority identifier that identifies a priority of the user vehicle configuration settings relative to other user vehicle configuration settings which may be stored on the mobile communication device or another mobile communication device . As discussed in more detail below the priority identifier may be used by the in vehicle computing system to resolve conflicts between user vehicle configuration settings e.g. when two users transmit two conflicting user vehicle configuration settings to the in vehicle computing system .

Referring now to in use the in vehicle computing system may execute a method for collecting and communicating vehicle configuration settings to the mobile communication device . The method begins with block in which the in vehicle computing system establishes a connection with the mobile communication device . As discussed above the communication circuitries may use any suitable communication technology and protocol to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the in vehicle computing system may perform a pairing process to block to pair with the mobile communication device to establish a communication link therebetween.

In block the in vehicle computing system determines whether a request for the current vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle has been received from the mobile communication device . If so the method advances to block in which the in vehicle computing system collects the current vehicle configuration settings. To do so the vehicle configuration control module may communicate with the various vehicle occupant controls via the corresponding control module to retrieve the current setting or data indicative of the current setting or adjustment of the corresponding vehicle occupant control. For example the vehicle configuration control module may communicate with a seat positioning control module to determine data indicative of the current seat position or adjustment in block . It should be appreciated that the in vehicle computing system may query or otherwise communicate with every some or just one vehicle occupant control to determine one or more vehicle configuration settings in block .

In block the in vehicle computing system transmits the current vehicle configuration settings to the mobile communication device . Additionally in some embodiments the in vehicle computing system may determine whether local storage of the current vehicle configuration settings is required in block . If so the in vehicle computing system stores the current vehicle configuration settings in the local data storage in block . The in vehicle computing system may store such vehicle configuration settings in association with a user identifier and or a priority identifier as discussed above with regard to the mobile communication device . In embodiments in which the vehicle configuration settings are stored in the data storage the in vehicle computing system may transmit a vehicle configuration settings identifier to the mobile communication device in block rather than the complete current vehicle configuration settings. In such embodiments the vehicle configuration settings identifier uniquely identifies the current vehicle configuration settings from other vehicle configuration settings stored in the data storage . Additionally in such embodiments the mobile communication device need only transmit the vehicle configuration settings identifier to the in vehicle computing system rather than the complete user vehicle configuration settings which is used by the in vehicle computing system to fetch the corresponding user vehicle configuration settings from the data storage as discussed in more detail below.

Referring now to in use the mobile communication device may also execute a method for configuring vehicle configuration settings of the in vehicle computing system . The method begins with block in which the mobile communication device establishes a connection with the in vehicle computing system . As discussed above with regard to block of the method the mobile communication device may perform a pairing process in block to pair with the in vehicle computing system to establish a communication link therebetween.

In block the mobile communication device determines whether to configure the vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle . In some embodiments the configuration of the vehicle settings may occur automatically or semi automatically with little or no intervention by the user of the mobile communication device . For example the mobile communication device may automatically attempt to configure the vehicle configuration settings in response to the establishment of a communication connection with the in vehicle computing system in block i.e. in response to the mobile communication device being brought into proximity with the in vehicle computing system . Additionally or alternatively the mobile communication device may configure the vehicle configuration settings in response to receiving a configuration authorization signal from the in vehicle computing system . As discussed in more detail below in regard to such configuration authorization signal may be generated in response to activation of a component of the vehicle such as the door handle brake ignition or the like. In yet other embodiments the user may manually opt to configure the vehicle configuration settings by selecting an appropriate command from a user interface of the mobile communication device .

If the mobile computing device determines that the vehicle configuration settings are to be configured the method advances to block in which the set of user vehicle configuration settings to transfer to the in vehicle computing system is determined. As discussed above the mobile communication device may store multiple sets of user vehicle configuration settings in some embodiments. In such embodiments the user of the mobile communication device may display a graphical user interface on a display of the device to allow the user to select the desired set of user vehicle configuration settings. For example as shown in the mobile communication device may display a seating chart interface that allows a user of the mobile communication device to select his her seating position within the vehicle . The mobile communication device may have stored therein different user vehicle configuration settings for one or more different seating positions. For example the user may select different seat positions for when he she is the driver or a passenger in the vehicle .

Referring back to the mobile communication device receives the user s selection in block and retrieves the selected user vehicle configuration settings in block . As discussed above in some embodiments the user vehicle configuration settings may be embodied as a user vehicle configuration settings identifier which may be retrieved in block rather than a complete set of user vehicle configuration settings.

In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be configured to select automatically or semi automatically the user vehicle configuration settings from multiple user vehicle configuration settings stored on the mobile communication device . In such embodiments the mobile communication device may determine a vehicle identifier which identifies the vehicle in block . For example the mobile communication device may receive the vehicle identifier from the in vehicle computing system during the pairing process of block . Subsequently in block the mobile communication device retrieves the user vehicle configuration settings form the data storage corresponding to the vehicle identifier.

After the user vehicle configuration settings have been determined and retrieved in block the mobile communication device transmits the retrieved user vehicle configuration settings in block . As discussed above rather than transmitting the complete user vehicle configuration settings the mobile communication device may transmit a user vehicle configuration settings identifier that identifies the selected or determined user vehicle configuration settings in block .

Referring now to in use the in vehicle computing system may execute a method for adjusting one or more vehicle occupant controls based on user vehicle configuration settings. The method begins with block in which the in vehicle computing system establishes a connection with the mobile communication device . As discussed above with regard to block of the method the in vehicle computing system may perform a pairing process in block to pair with the mobile communication device to establish a communication link therebetween.

In block the in vehicle computing system determines whether to allow modification of the vehicle configuration settings. As discussed above the vehicle configuration settings may be configured automatically or semi automatically in some embodiments. For example the in vehicle computing system may provide a period of time during which vehicle configuration settings may be automatically adjusted by the mobile communication device in response to the establishment of the communication connection in block i.e. in response to the mobile communication device being brought into proximity of the in vehicle computing system . Additionally or alternatively the in vehicle computing system may transmit a configuration authorization signal to the mobile communication device to indicate that the mobile communication device may modify the vehicle configuration settings if desired. In some embodiments the configuration authorization signal may be generated in response to activation of a component of the vehicle such as the lifting of a door handle the depression of the break selection of a particular button activation of the ignition and or other component of the vehicle . Yet further in some embodiments the vehicle computing system may receive a request from the mobile communication device to modify the vehicle configuration settings in block .

If the in vehicle computing system determines that the vehicle configuration settings are to be modified the method advances to block in which the in vehicle computing system receives the user vehicle configuration settings form the mobile communication device . As discussed above rather than transmitting the complete user vehicle configuration settings the mobile communication device may transfer only a user vehicle configuration settings identifier that identifies the desired user vehicle configuration settings which are stored on the data storage of the in vehicle computing system . In such embodiments the in vehicle computing system receives the user vehicle configuration settings identifier from the mobile communication device in block and retrieves the corresponding user vehicle configuration settings from the data storage based on the user vehicle configuration settings identifier in block .

In block the in vehicle computing system resolves any priority conflicts between different user vehicle configuration settings that may occur in response to the recent receive retrieved user vehicle configuration settings . As discussed above the in vehicle computing system may be configured to resolve such priority conflicts based on a priority identifier associated with each set of user vehicle configuration settings. That is the user vehicle configuration settings or components thereof having the highest or lowest priority identifier may be used in place of other user vehicle configuration settings. In this way one user s preference e.g. a parent s preference for vehicle configuration settings may override another user s preference e.g. a child s preference .

In block the in vehicle computing system adjusts one or more vehicle occupant controls based on or as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings received retrieved in block . For example the in vehicle computing system may adjust ergonomic controls in block comfort controls in block and or mechanical controls in block . In this way a user of the mobile communication device may remotely and automatically adjust the vehicle occupant controls to desired settings without manually adjusting each control.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

Example 1 includes a mobile communication device for remotely configuring vehicle configuration settings of a vehicle. The mobile communication device includes a data storage having stored therein a user vehicle configuration settings the user vehicle configuration settings comprising data usable by an in vehicle computing system to configure vehicle occupant controls of the vehicle a vehicle configuration management module to retrieve the user vehicle configuration settings from the data storage and transmit the retrieved user vehicle configuration settings to the in vehicle computing system to configure the vehicle occupant controls.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module is to automatically retrieve and transmit the user vehicle configuration settings in response to establishment of a communication connection with the in vehicle computing system.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 and 2 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module is to automatically retrieve and transmit the user vehicle configuration settings in response to receiving a configuration authorization signal from the in vehicle computing system indicative that a component of the vehicle has been activated.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to determine a vehicle identifier for the vehicle and retrieve the user vehicle configuration settings from the data storage as a function of the vehicle identifier.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to receive the vehicle identifier from the in vehicle computing system.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and further including a display wherein the vehicle configuration management module to display a selection of a plurality of selectable user vehicle configuration settings stored in the data storage on the display receive a selection of one of the displayed user vehicle configuration settings and retrieve the selected user configuration settings from the data storage.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 6 and wherein to receive the selection of one of the displayed user vehicle configuration settings comprises to receive a selection of a seat location within the vehicle.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and further including a display wherein the vehicle configuration management module to display a selection of a plurality of selectable user vehicle configuration settings stored in the data storage on the display receive a selection of one of the displayed user vehicle configuration settings determine a user configuration settings identifier for the selected user vehicle configuration setting wherein the communication module to transmit the user configuration settings identifier to the in vehicle computing system of the vehicle.

Example 9 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 8 and wherein the user vehicle configuration settings comprises at least one of user configuration settings to adjust an ergonomic control of the vehicle user configuration settings to adjust an comfort control of the vehicle user configuration settings to adjust an mechanical control of the vehicle.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 9 and further including a display wherein the vehicle configuration management module to display the user configuration settings on the display and receive a selection of a user configuration setting of the displayed user configuration settings wherein the communication module to transmit the user vehicle configuration setting to the in vehicle computing system of the vehicle.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 10 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to request vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system the vehicle configuration settings identifying current settings of vehicle occupant controls managed by the in vehicle computing system of the vehicle receive the vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system using the communication module and store the vehicle configuration settings in the data storage.

Example 12 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 11 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to store the vehicle configuration settings in association with a vehicle identifier that identifies the vehicle.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 12 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to store the vehicle configuration settings in association with a user identifier that identifies a user of the mobile communication device.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 13 and wherein the vehicle configuration management module to store the vehicle configuration settings in association with a priority identifier that identifies the priority of the vehicle configuration settings relative to other vehicle configuration settings.

Example 15 includes an in vehicle computing system of a vehicle for managing vehicle configuration settings. The in vehicle computing system includes a communication module to receive user vehicle configuration settings from a mobile communication device the user vehicle configuration settings comprising data usable by the in vehicle computing system to configure one or more vehicle occupant controls of the vehicle that are managed by the in vehicle system and a vehicle configuration control module to adjust at least one vehicle occupant control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 16 includes the subject matter of Example 15 and wherein the vehicle configuration control module is to generate a vehicle authorization signal in response to activation of a component of the vehicle and the communication module is to transmit the vehicle authorization signal to the mobile communication device to inform the mobile communication device that the vehicle configuration settings may be adjusted.

Example 17 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 and 16 and wherein the component of the vehicle is one of a door handle a break and an ignition switch.

Example 18 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 17 and further including a data storage to store vehicle configuration settings wherein the user vehicle configuration settings comprises a user vehicle configuration settings identifier and wherein the in vehicle computing system to retrieve a vehicle configuration settings from the data storage corresponding to the user vehicle configuration settings identifier and adjust the at least one vehicle occupant control as a function of the retrieved vehicle configuration settings.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 18 and wherein the vehicle configuration control module comprises an ergonomic control module to adjust at least one ergonomic control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 20 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 19 and wherein the vehicle configuration control module comprises an comfort control module to adjust at least one comfort control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 20 and wherein the vehicle configuration control module comprises an mechanical control module to adjust at least one mechanical control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 21 and wherein the communication module to receive an additional user vehicle configuration settings from an additional mobile communication device the vehicle configuration control module to resolve a priority conflict between the user vehicle configuration settings and the additional user vehicle configuration settings to determine a final user vehicle configuration settings and adjust at least one vehicle occupant control as a function of the final vehicle configuration settings.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 22 and wherein the vehicle configuration control module is to resolve the priority conflict as a function of a priority identifier received with each user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 23 and wherein the communication module to receive a request for vehicle configuration settings from the mobile communication device and the in vehicle computing system to determine current vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle in response to the request and transmit using the communication module the current vehicle configuration settings to the mobile communication device.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 24 and wherein the in vehicle computing system to store the current vehicle configuration settings in a data storage of the in vehicle computing system.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 25 and wherein the in vehicle computing system to store the current vehicle configuration settings in the data storage in association with a settings identifier.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 15 26 and wherein in vehicle computing system to determine at least one of an ergonomic control setting a comfort control setting and a mechanical control setting of the vehicle.

Example 28 includes a method for remotely configuring vehicle configuration settings using a mobile communication device. The method includes retrieving user vehicle configuration settings from a data storage of the mobile communication device the user vehicle configuration settings to configure vehicle occupant controls managed by an in vehicle computing system of the vehicle and transmitting the user vehicle configuration settings to the in vehicle computing system to configure the vehicle occupant controls.

Example 29 includes the subject matter of Example 28 and further including establishing a communication connection with the in vehicle computing system wherein retrieving user vehicle configuration settings comprises automatically retrieving the user vehicle configuration settings in response to establishment of the communication connection.

Example 30 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 and 29 and further including receiving a configuration authorization signal from the in vehicle computing system indicative that a component of the vehicle has been activated and wherein retrieving user vehicle configuration settings comprises automatically retrieving the user vehicle configuration settings in response to receiving the configuration authorization signal.

Example 31 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 30 and wherein retrieving the user vehicle configuration settings comprises determining a vehicle identifier for the vehicle and retrieving the user configuration settings as a function of the vehicle identifier.

Example 32 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 31 and wherein determining the vehicle identifier comprises receiving the vehicle identifier from the in vehicle computing system.

Example 33 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 32 and wherein retrieving the user vehicle configuration settings comprises receiving a selection of a user vehicle configuration settings from a plurality of selectable user vehicle configuration settings stored on the mobile communication device and retrieving the selected user configuration settings.

Example 34 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 33 and wherein receiving a selection of a user vehicle configuration settings comprises receiving a selection of a seat location within the vehicle.

Example 35 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 34 and wherein retrieving the user vehicle configuration settings comprises receiving a selection of a user vehicle configuration settings from a plurality of selectable user vehicle configuration settings stored on the mobile communication device determining a user configuration settings identifier for the selected user vehicle configuration settings and transmitting the user configuration settings identifier to the in vehicle computing system of the vehicle.

Example 36 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 35 and wherein transmitting the user vehicle configuration settings comprises transmitting user vehicle configuration settings that adjust an ergonomic control of the vehicle.

Example 37 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 36 and wherein transmitting the user vehicle configuration settings comprises transmitting user vehicle configuration settings that adjust a comfort control of the vehicle.

Example 38 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 37 and wherein transmitting the user vehicle configuration settings comprises transmitting user vehicle configuration settings that adjust a mechanical control of the vehicle.

Example 39 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 38 and further including displaying the user configuration settings on a display of the mobile communication device and receiving on the mobile communication device a selection of a user configuration setting of the user configuration settings and wherein transmitting the user vehicle configuration settings comprises transmitting the selected user configuration setting.

Example 40 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 39 and further including requesting vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system the vehicle configuration settings identifying current settings of vehicle occupant controls managed by the in vehicle computing system of the vehicle receiving on the mobile communication device the vehicle configuration settings from the in vehicle computing system and storing the vehicle configuration settings on the mobile communication device.

Example 41 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 40 and wherein storing the vehicle configuration settings comprises storing the vehicle configuration settings in association with a vehicle identifier that identifies the vehicle.

Example 42 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 41 and wherein storing the vehicle configuration settings comprises storing the vehicle configuration settings in association with a user identifier that identifies a user of the mobile communication device.

Example 43 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 28 42 and wherein storing the vehicle configuration settings comprises storing the vehicle configuration settings in association with a priority identifier that identifies the priority of the vehicle configuration settings relative to other vehicle configuration settings.

Example 44 includes a mobile communication device for remotely configuring vehicle configuration settings of a vehicle. The mobile communication device includes a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 28 43.

Example 45 includes one or more machine readable media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a mobile computing device performing the method of any of Examples 28 43.

Example 46 includes a method for managing vehicle configuration settings of a vehicle. The method includes receiving with an in vehicle computing system of the vehicle user vehicle configuration settings from a mobile communication device the user vehicle configuration settings comprising data usable by the in vehicle computing system to configure one or more vehicle occupant controls managed by the in vehicle system and adjusting using the in vehicle computing system at least one vehicle occupant control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 47 includes the subject matter of Example 46 and wherein the plurality of instructions further result in the in vehicle computing system generating transmitting a vehicle authorization signal to the mobile communication device in response to activation of a component of the vehicle the vehicle authorization signal informing the mobile communication device that the vehicle configuration settings may be adjusted.

Example 48 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 and 47 and wherein the component of the vehicle is one of a door handle a break and an ignition switch.

Example 49 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 48 and wherein receiving the user vehicle configuration settings comprises receiving a user vehicle configuration settings identifier from the mobile communication device and retrieving a vehicle configuration settings from a data storage of the in vehicle computing system corresponding to the user vehicle configuration settings identifier wherein adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control comprises adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control as a function of the retrieved vehicle configuration settings.

Example 50 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 49 and wherein adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control comprises adjusting an ergonomic control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 51 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 50 and wherein adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control comprises adjusting an comfort control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 52 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 51 and wherein adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control comprises adjusting an mechanical control of the vehicle as a function of the user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 53 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 52 and further including receiving with the in vehicle computing system an additional user vehicle configuration settings from another mobile communication device and resolving a priority conflict between the user vehicle configuration settings and the additional user vehicle configuration settings to determine a final user vehicle configuration settings wherein adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control comprises adjusting the at least one vehicle occupant control as a function of the final vehicle configuration settings.

Example 54 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 53 and wherein resolving the priority conflict comprises resolving the priority conflict between the user vehicle configuration settings and the additional user vehicle configuration settings as a function of a priority identifier received with each user vehicle configuration settings.

Example 55 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 54 and further including receiving with the in vehicle computing system a request for vehicle configuration settings from the mobile communication device determining with the in vehicle computing system current vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle in response to the request and transmitting the current vehicle configuration settings to the mobile communication device.

Example 56 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 55 and further including storing the current vehicle configuration settings in a data storage of the in vehicle computing system.

Example 57 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 56 and wherein storing the current vehicle configuration settings comprises storing the storing the current vehicle configuration settings in a data storage of the in vehicle computing system in association with a settings identifier.

Example 58 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 46 57 and wherein determining the current vehicle configuration settings of the vehicle comprises determining at least one of an ergonomic control setting a comfort control setting and a mechanical control setting of the vehicle.

Example 59 includes an in vehicle computing system for managing vehicle configuration settings of a vehicle. The in vehicle computing system includes a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 46 58.

Example 60 includes one or more machine readable media including a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in an in vehicle computing system of a vehicle performing the method of any of Examples 46 58.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

