---

title: Dialogue-driven user security levels
abstract: Natural language controlled devices may be implemented in an environment where the devices are configured to operate with multiple different users. The techniques described herein implement security requirements for a device configured to operate in an environment where the multiple different users may request functionality. The security requirements may be implemented based on the whether the functionality requested is personal and/or secured.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147054&OS=09147054&RS=09147054
owner: Amazon Technolgies, Inc.
number: 09147054
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
Homes are becoming more wired and connected with the proliferation of computing devices such as desktops tablets entertainment systems and portable communication devices. As these computing devices evolve many different ways have been introduced to allow users to interact with computing devices such as through mechanical devices e.g. keyboards mice etc. touch screens motion and gesture. Another way to interact with computing devices is through natural language input such as speech.

The use of natural language input to interact with computing devices presents many challenges. One challenge concerns recognizing and or authenticating a user interacting with the computing device. For example when the computing device is placed in an environment where it is configured to interact with a plurality of users the computing device may need to know which particular user is requesting functionality to be performed by the computing device.

Accordingly there is a need for techniques to recognize and or authenticate one or more users that may interact with natural language control devices.

The techniques and systems described herein operate a voice controlled device configured to interact with a plurality of different users. The voice controlled device is configured to implement different security requirements depending on the functionality requested by a user. For example the functionality requested by a user may be non personalized and unsecured functionality that the voice controlled device can perform independent of user identification. Alternatively the functionality requested by a user may be personalized but unsecured functionality that the voice controlled device can perform once the user is identified e.g. after the user provides a name . Or in another alternative the functionality requested by a user may be secured functionality that involves restricted operations and or confidential information. In this last alternative the voice controlled device may be configured to perform the secured functionality after the user is authenticated e.g. after the user provides authentication credentials and the voice controlled device validates the authentication credentials .

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may be located in an environment where the plurality of different users commonly reside frequently visit etc. For example the voice controlled device may be located in a household environment a business office environment an educational setting and so forth.

Conventionally a user may have to sit down at a household computer and identify oneself by providing via a mechanical input device and a display interface user identification ID and a password before the user can use the household computer. Moreover the user may often have to type additional user IDs and passwords to log into and to use specific applications executing on the household computer e.g. email e commerce purchases etc. .

However in systems that employ natural language techniques to interact with multiple different users a voice controlled device may not be able to identify and or authenticate a user by employing the conventional approaches where a user sits down at a household computer and uses a mechanical input device to provide user identification and a user password.

The techniques described herein determine whether any unsatisfied security requirements are associated with requested functionality and then implement processes to determine and acquire the unsatisfied security requirements if a user requesting the functionality has not already satisfied the security requirements. In various embodiments execution of the requested functionality by the voice controlled device may be implemented in accordance with different operating modes that may correspond to the security requirements. The different operating modes may define one or more types of functionality capable of being performed by the voice controlled device. As described herein functionality performed by the voice controlled device may include but is not limited to operations actions routines information retrieval e.g. via local datastores via connected networks and or any other functionality associated with an application computer program or instructions executing on the voice controlled device.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may not require user identification or user authentication when the functionality requested is non personal and the functionality is unsecured functionality e.g. the functionality is common to a group of users and therefore no security requirements must be satisfied in association with the request . Here the voice controlled device may operate in an unrecognized mode when the functionality requested involves non personal and unsecured information e.g. the weather and the user requesting the functionality has not already been identified and or authenticated. In this scenario the voice controlled device may not know or need to know which one of a plurality of different users is speaking i.e. a user may be unrecognized or not yet identified .

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may require user identification as a security requirement when the functionality requested is personal to a user but the functionality is unsecured e.g. outputting a personal music playlist compiled by a user may be personal but unsecured . Here the voice controlled device may operate in a recognized mode that involves identifying the user so that the personal functionality can be executed.

As discussed herein secured functionality may include restricted operations that can only be performed by certain users or operations where security e.g. authentication is implemented to help protect the functionality from deceptive or fraudulent actions by someone not authorized to request the functionality e.g. someone who falsely claims to be a different person . Secured functionality may also involve e.g. access provide disclose use update etc. confidential information that includes information that is sensitive to a user and therefore the user may not want the information shared or revealed to others e.g. social security number credit card numbers health information etc. . Thus secured functionality depends on and may vary in accordance with the operations being executed and or a type of information involved in the operations. Moreover functionality may be classified as secured according to an indication from an application or an indication from a user.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may require user authentication as a security requirement when the functionality requested is secured functionality e.g. making a purchase using an online shopping account with a registered credit card . Here the voice controlled device may operate in an authenticated mode that involves authenticating the user requesting the functionality.

In scenarios where the functionality is secured functionality the voice controlled device is configured to establish a higher confidence and a stronger likelihood that the user is who he she claims to be when interacting with the voice controlled device. Accordingly in the authenticated mode the voice controlled device may be configured to request and or receive authentication credentials to verify the user making the request. The voice controlled device may be configured with different levels of security when operating in the authenticated mode. Moreover the voice control device may be configured to request and or receive the authentication credentials using different forms of communication.

While this disclosure further describes systems devices and processes associated with determining whether user identification or user authentication is required for security purposes it is understood in the context of this document that the voice controlled device may be configured to acquire other information for security purposes. Moreover the voice controlled device may be configured to operate in any number of different identification modes that may create an improved user natural language experience while also protecting secured functionality and confidential information.

The voice controlled device may also be implemented as a mobile device such as a smart phone or personal digital assistant. The mobile device may include a touch sensitive display screen and various buttons for providing input as well as additional functionality such as the ability to send and receive telephone calls. Alternative implementations of the voice control device may also include configuration as a personal computer . The personal computer may include a keyboard a mouse a display screen and any other hardware or functionality that is typically found on a desktop notebook netbook or other personal computing devices. The devices and are merely examples and not intended to be limiting as the techniques described in this disclosure may be used in essentially any device that has an ability to recognize speech input.

In the illustrated implementation the voice controlled device includes one or more processors and computer readable media . The computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile memory removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such memory includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices redundant array of independent disks RAID storage systems or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device. The computer readable media may be implemented as computer readable storage media CRSM which may be any available physical media accessible by the processor s to execute instructions stored on the memory . In one basic implementation CRSM RAM and Flash memory. In other implementations CRSM may include but is not limited to ROM EEPROM or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the processor s .

Several modules such as instruction datastores and so forth may be stored within the computer readable media and configured to execute on the processor s . A few example functional modules are shown as applications stored in the computer readable media and executed on the processor s although the same functionality may alternatively be implemented in hardware firmware or as a system on a chip SOC .

An operating system module may be configured to manage hardware and services within and coupled to the voice controlled device for the benefit of other modules. A security requirements module may be configured to determine security requirements that must be satisfied before the voice controlled device can execute functionality corresponding to requests made by one or more users.

In some embodiments the security requirements module may determine that the voice controlled device can perform functionality independent of whether or not the voice controlled device identifies the user e.g. the voice controlled device may operate in the unrecognized mode when the voice controlled device does not have to know the identification of the user . In another example the security requirements module may determine that the voice controlled device is required to identify a user requesting the functionality before performing the functionality because the functionality is personal to the user but the functionality is unsecured e.g. the voice controlled device may operate in the recognized mode . In yet another example the security requirements module may determine that the voice controlled device is required to authenticate a user requesting the functionality before performing the functionality because the functionality is secured and therefore the user must provide authentication e.g. the voice controlled device may operate in the authenticated mode where the user is verified via the use of authentication credentials .

The security requirements module may determine that no security requirements must be satisfied when the functionality requested is common to a group of users and the functionality is unsecured. If this determination is made the voice controlled device may operate in the unrecognized mode. For example the voice controlled device may determine that no security requirements must be satisfied when the functionality requested is public and or anonymous. Examples of public and or anonymous functionality may include but are not limited to accessing non personal web information e.g. weather traffic patterns news headlines price checks stock quotes web searches etc. accessing non personal information via local systems e.g. electronic program guide information including television programs currently being broadcast playing non personalized music e.g. radio Internet radio web based music players etc. playing movies general timing and calendar information e.g. setting a timer time of day day of the week month Holidays etc. and so forth. Accordingly any one of a plurality of users registered with the voice controlled device or even a guest visiting an environment where the voice controlled device is physically located may be able to ask what the weather outside is and the voice controlled device may be configured to provide an answer without identifying or authenticating the user or a guest.

The security requirements module may determine that user identification is required when the functionality requested by a user is personal to the user but the functionality does not involve secured functionality and or confidential information. If this determination is made the voice controlled device may operate in the recognized mode. For example the voice controlled device may require user identification when a user requests that the voice controlled device play a personal music playlist output a personalized reminder e.g. a calendar appointment requesting information about email received in a user s account post a comment to a newsfeed e.g. social network chat group etc. and so forth. Accordingly the voice controlled device may implement a process to identify the particular user so that the appropriate music playlist or reminder can be output or the post can be provided to the newsfeed and attributed to the correct person. Other examples of personalized but not secured content may include tailored recommendations or web information based on user interests e.g. stock quote watch list favorite sports teams scores news favorite retail store sales or coupons etc. a privilege of adding items to a personal shopping cart but not completing the purchase of the items and so forth.

In at least one embodiment a process implemented by the voice controlled device to identify the user may include prompting the user to say a name or other form of identification registered at the voice controlled device . In this embodiment since the functionality is unsecured functionality the voice controlled device will trust that the user is who he she claims to be without validating the user via the use of authentication credentials. In at least one alternative embodiment the process implemented by the voice controlled device to identify the user in conjunction with the recognized mode may include recognizing the voice of the user using a stored voiceprint based form of identification. The voiceprint based form of identification may be learned and or trained over a period of time by building a voice profile for each user e.g. using enrollment scripts or a known set of utterances such that the voice controlled device can recognize different users with acceptable confidence. Depending on a level of identification confidence using voice print based forms of identification and as the level of identification confidence increases voice print based forms of identification may also be used for user authentication purposes.

The security requirements module may determine that user authentication is required when the functionality requested is secured functionality e.g. involves restricted operations and or confidential information . If this determination is made the voice controlled device may operate in an authenticated mode. Accordingly the voice controlled device may be configured to request and or receive authentication credentials to verify that the user making the request for the secured functionality is who he she claims to be. Examples of secured functionality may include but are not limited to a user making a purchase via an online shopping account private or confidential reminders e.g. doctor s appointment surprise birthday party applications that use request or provide sensitive information e.g. bank account numbers credit card numbers social security numbers health information social security numbers etc. and sending an email from a user s email account.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may be set to a default configuration that defines whether or not security requirements must be satisfied before performing different types of functionality and or an operating mode associated with different types of functionality. As further discussed herein the default configuration may be subjected to i settings defined by a primary account holder for different individuals associated with the account and or ii application settings that recommend security requirements and or that enforce a particular operating mode to be implemented to preserve security e.g. a banking application that requires user authentication and the authenticated mode .

The voice controlled device may process the functionality request with a speech recognition module that may employ any number of conventional speech recognition techniques such as use of natural language processing and extensive lexicons to interpret voice input. The speech recognition module may initially be in a passive state in which the speech recognition module is waiting for speech input requesting functionality to be performed. Upon receiving the request the speech recognition module may enter an active state in which the security requirements module determines whether user identification or user authentication is required for the requested functionality. In at least one embodiment the voice controlled device may initially wake up and operate in the unrecognized mode. The security requirements module may then determine that user identification or user authentication is required for the requested functionality. Accordingly the security requirements module may implement processes to request and acquire user identification information or user authentication information.

To perform the example functionality provided above the voice controlled device may include a plurality of applications stored in the computer readable media or otherwise accessible to the voice controlled device . For example the applications may include a music player application a movie player application a timer application a personal shopper application web information application a calendar application and a reminder application and so forth. However the voice controlled device may include any number or type of applications and is not limited to the specific examples shown here.

The music player application may be configured to play songs or other audio files. The movie player application may be configured to play movies or other audio visual media. The timer application may be configured to provide the functions of a simple timing device and clock. The personal shopper application may be configured to assist a user in purchasing items from web based merchants. The web information application may be configured to fetch web information for a user e.g. weather news stock quotes web searches price checks . The calendar application may be configured to store non personal personal unsecured and secured calendar information e.g. days months personal schedules meetings vacations deadlines confidential appointments etc. . The reminder application may be configured to set and provide reminders e.g. exact time daily weekly etc. for a group of users or for an individual user e.g. television program start times errands appointments pick up kids pay bills garbage day etc. . In at least one embodiment the reminder application may access information maintained by the calendar application to determine reminders and electronically communicate the reminders to a mobile device associated with the user.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may also include applications and or application programming interfaces API that access information and use functionality of other systems e.g. set top boxes digital video recorders DVR social network systems email systems etc. .

In various embodiments datastores present may include an account information database with one or more user profiles . The account information database may be associated with a service provider or a content provider. Each of the user profiles may be associated with a registered user who interacts with the voice controlled device . For example when the voice controlled device is set in a household environment each of the user profiles may be associated with a member of a family e.g. a parent a child a grandmother or a grandfather etc. . The user profile s may include user characteristics e.g. age sex personal preferences or interests e.g. music movies television programs books sports teams topics etc. a device usage history library information e.g. music play lists ebooks online purchase history and other information specific to an individual user.

In various embodiments the user profiles may also include settings security levels authentication credentials and security procedures .

The settings define information that the security requirements module may access when determining whether user identification or user authentication is required for a particular functionality. In some implementations a primary account holder e.g. a parent of the household a manager of an office or other account manager or user with privileges may define whether user identification or user authentication is required when a user requests a particular functionality. The settings may define that particular security requirements are associated with an individual user or a group of users when any one of the users in the group requests a particular functionality e.g. teenagers group based on status of employee .

For example a primary account holder may define in the settings that the voice controlled device require user authentication and or operate in the authenticated mode when a dependent e.g. child employee requests online purchasing functionality. In another example the primary account holder may define that anyone can request functionality by a particular application by defining that the voice controlled device can perform the functionality in the unrecognized mode without user identification or user authentication.

In various embodiments a primary account holder may also define in the settings restricted operations for functionality performed by a particular application . Restricted operations may include a complete prohibition of a particular functionality e.g. children may never make an online purchase time constrained privileges e.g. children may be limited to use of a social network application on the weekends and not on school nights purchase limits e.g. total dollar amount limit for a one time purchase total dollar amount limit for a defined period frequency of a purchase acceptable times for a purchase etc. . The restricted operations defined in the settings may be performed in the authenticated mode after the user has provided authentication credentials or they may be performed in the recognized mode after the user has been identified.

The security levels may define different degrees of authentication associated with requested functionality when the security requirements module determines that user authentication is required. Thus the security requirements module may access the security levels when implementing a user authentication process. For example depending on the operations performed e.g. a small dollar amount purchase of a book vs. a large dollar amount purchase of a set of concert tickets or a degree of sensitivity for the information involved e.g. a personal email message vs. a credit card number or a social security number involved for a particular functionality the voice controlled device may implement different security levels so the voice controlled device is confident that the user making the request is who they claim to be when requesting functionality that may be more secure. For example a first security level for sending an email from an account may require a four digit access code while a second security level associated with purchasing an expensive product with a credit card may require a more secure code such as a four digit access code as well as an additional purchase code. In this example use of the purchase code may be restricted e.g. only the primary account holder knows the purchase code and it may change every two weeks for example. Accordingly similar to the settings a primary account holder or other account manager may set different security levels for different functionality performed by the applications on the voice controlled device .

The authentication credentials may include personal passwords codes personal identification numbers PIN question answer combinations e.g. maiden name favorite childhood pet etc. redemption codes key fob a series of tones or any type of security mechanism used to authenticate individual users. The authentication credentials may be defined for each user so that they may be used for a period of time or they may be randomly generated and used for one time authentication. For example the authentication credentials may be a combination of letters numbers symbols words phrases sounds and so forth. In at least one embodiment the authentication credentials may include an element based on voiceprinting as previously mentioned. The authentication credentials may be set up and defined by a primary account holder or the individual user during a registration process as further discussed herein.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device may be configured to request and or receive the authentication credentials for each of the multiple users registered according to different security procedures . For instance the security procedures for a user may be configured to request and or receive authentication credentials using the natural language speech previously discussed. Alternatively the security procedures may be others forms of communications that may be implemented to better protect the authentication credentials such that a user does not have to uncomfortably disclose the authentication credentials out loud when others may be present in a room. For example a user may be able to electronically provide authentication credentials using a personal device configured with a companion application that communicates with the voice controlled device . Thus the user may be able to enter e.g. silently via key input the authentication credentials at the personal device using the companion application and the personal device may then be configured to electronically send the authentication credentials to the voice controlled device for validation. In another example the voice controlled device may be configured to send an authentication redemption code e.g. a set code a randomly generated code to the companion application installed on a registered personal device associated with a registered user requesting particular functionality e.g. purchase a product and the user may then be able to redeem the authentication redemption code. In yet another example when a registered user knows that the functionality he she wants to request is secured functionality the registered user may proactively press on the personal device an authentication key or a series of authentication keys associated with the companion application to instruct the voice controlled device to enter the authenticated identification mode.

Moreover the companion application executing on the personal device associated with the user may be configured to play out a series of tones that the voice controlled device can to hear and process for validation purposes. In order to protect the series of tones from being copied the series of tones may be outside of a human auditory spectrum the series of tones may be embedded in other audio e.g. music or the series of tones may change frequency.

In various embodiments a developer of an application may provide an indication of recommended or required security requirements e.g. the user must identify or authenticate himself or herself . This may occur when the application is installed on the voice controlled device and or registered with an account. For example an application that performs secured functionality with confidential information may recommend or require that the voice controlled device acquire user authentication e.g. in the authenticated mode before executing functionality. In another example an application that may acquire access or develop personalized but what the developer may consider as unsecured content may recommend that the voice controlled device acquire user identification e.g. in the recognized mode . In yet another example an application that access or provides the same common public information regardless of the user requesting the information may recommend that the voice controlled device operate in the unrecognized mode without requiring the user to identify or authenticate himself or herself.

Thus in some instances application provided restrictions indications or recommendations may supplement override or build on the settings defined by a user. An application may also enforce a particular security level to help ensure that the secured functionality and the confidential information are protected. Consequently the security requirements module may determine whether user identification or user authentication is required based on a default configuration user provided settings application provided settings or a combination thereof.

In various embodiments the voice controlled device has input devices and output devices . The input devices may include a keyboard keypad mouse touch screen joystick control buttons etc. Specifically one or more microphones may function as input devices to receive audio input such as user voice input. The output devices may include a display a light element e.g. LED a vibrator to create haptic sensations or the like. Specifically one a more speakers may function as output devices to output audio sounds.

A user may interact with the voice controlled device by speaking to it and the microphone captures the user s speech. The voice controlled device can communicate back to the user by emitting audible statements through the speakers . In this manner the user can interact with the voice controlled device solely through speech without use of a keyboard or display.

The voice controlled device might further include a wireless unit coupled to an antenna to facilitate a wireless connection to a network. The wireless unit may implement one or more of various wireless technologies such as Wi Fi Bluetooth RF and so on. A USB port may further be provided as part of the voice controlled device to facilitate a wired connection to a network or a plug in network device that communicates with other wireless networks. In addition to the USB port or as an alternative thereto other forms of wired connections may be employed such as a broadband connection.

Accordingly when implemented as the primarily voice operated device there may be no input devices such as navigation buttons keypads joysticks keyboards touch screens and the like other than the microphone s . Further there may be no output such as a display for text or graphical output. Rather the speaker s may be the main output device. In one implementation the voice controlled device may include non input control mechanisms such as basic volume control button s for increasing decreasing volume as well as power and reset buttons. There may also be a simple light element e.g. LED to indicate a state such as for example when power is on.

Accordingly the voice controlled device may be implemented as an aesthetically appealing device with smooth and rounded surfaces with one or more apertures for passage of sound waves. The voice controlled device may merely have a power cord and optionally a wired interface e.g. broadband USB etc. . Once plugged in the voice controlled device may automatically self configure or with slight aid of a user and be ready to use. As a result the voice controlled device may be generally produced at a low cost. In other implementations other I O components may be added to this basic model such as specialty buttons a keypad display and the like.

In this implementation the voice controlled device may be configured with one or more local modules available in the computer readable media that provide instructions to the processor s . The local modules may provide basic functionality such as creating a connection to the network and initial processing of data received from the microphone and controlling an output device such as a speaker . Other functionality associated with the voice controlled device described in may be provided by the remote cloud services .

The cloud services include one or more network accessible devices such as servers . The servers may include one or more processors and computer readable media . The processor s and the computer readable media of the servers are physically separate from the processor s and computer readable media of the voice controlled device but may function jointly as part of a system that provides processing and memory in part on the voice controlled device and in part on the cloud services . These servers may be arranged in any number of ways such as server farms stacks and the like that are commonly used in data centers.

Furthermore the security requirements module the speech recognition module and or any of the applications shown in may be located in the computer readable media of the cloud services . Thus the specific location of the respective modules used to implement the features contained in this disclosure is not limiting and the discussions below are equally applicable to any implementation that includes a local device a cloud based service or combinations thereof. In implementations in which the speech recognition module is located in the computer readable media of the cloud services the local modules may further provide the functionality to receive functionality requests and to forward voice input to the speech recognition module so that the security requirements module can determine whether user identification or user authentication is required for the functionality requested by a user. Moreover the security requirements module may configure the voice controlled device to operate in one of a variety of operating modes based on whether the user needs to be identified or authenticated.

In various embodiments the servers may be part of an account based entity that provides services and or content. Accordingly the servers may maintain account information . The account information may be associated with a household business office or educational setting as discussed above. Thus the account information may include the information stored in the user profiles as well as other account information e.g. information relating to the installment of the voice controlled device the applications available for use cloud wallet account to make purchases etc. .

As such the operation of the system architecture may be as follows. The user requests functionality e.g. I d like to implement a particular device function . The security requirements module at the voice controlled device or in the cloud services may then determine whether user identification or user authentication is required for the requested functionality. If the security requirements module determines that user identification and user authentication are not required then the voice controlled device may perform the functionality without identifying or authenticating the user. Alternatively the security requirements module may instruct the voice controlled device to prompt the user for identification and or authentication credentials based on a determination that user identification or user authentication is required. As shown in the example of the voice controlled device may audibly output a prompt requesting that the user provide further information e.g. Please identify yourself or Please provide authentication credentials .

In other embodiments the voice controlled device may request and or receive further information via other forms of communications such as the security procedures previously discussed. In these embodiments the user may employ a personal device capable of receiving input and communicating the input to the voice controlled device e.g. a tablet computer a smart phone a laptop computer a mobile phone PDA a personal music player a gaming system a desktop computer etc. .

While depicts the voice controlled device prompting the user for further identification information it is understood that the user may be aware of the security requirements associated with requested functionality. Thus the user may proactively provide identification information or authentication information and the voice controlled device will be able to process the information without having to request further information from the user. For example the user may state I am John and I would like to purchase movie tickets for An Action Film tonight at 7 00 PM. My password is 1234. In various embodiments the user may also utter a wake word or activation word initially or in conjunction with the request to wake up the voice controlled device .

The operations of the voice controlled device in and or the system architecture in are described in additional detail with regard to below.

The processes illustrated in and described herein are each a collection of blocks or actions in a logical flow graph. Some of the blocks represent operations that can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the blocks represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks can be combined in any order or in parallel to implement the processes.

At a user e.g. a primary account holder may register the voice controlled device with an account maintained by a service provider e.g. cloud services . In various embodiments the voice controlled device may be provided to a household along with a subscription to the service provider. In other embodiments the voice controlled device may be a device marketed by and purchased from a third party vendor. Once the voice controlled device is registered it may be configured to install applications and execute the applications to perform functionality for multiple different users.

At the voice controlled device may receive user information from a user with managing privileges e.g. the primary account holder and the voice controlled device may create user profiles for one or more users that will be interacting with the voice controlled device . For examples the users may be members of a family employees that work at a particular office branch educational staff who use a staff room at a school and so forth. The user information may include user characteristics personal preferences or interests and other information specific to an individual user.

At the voice controlled device may define different settings security levels and security procedures . The security requirements module may access the settings when determining whether user identification or user authentication is required before the voice controlled device performs the requested functionality. In at least one embodiment the voice controlled device defines the settings based on setting information received from a user e.g. a primary account holder or user with privileges to define settings . In another embodiment the settings may also be defined in accordance with recommendation or requirements provided by a developer of an application . Accordingly the settings may vary based on an individual user or a group of users the individual application or a broader type or category of the application a combination thereof. Furthermore in various embodiments the settings may define restricted operations for the users. The security levels may define varying degrees or strengths of authentication required for different users. In at least one embodiment the voice controlled device sets the security levels based on user provided input. In another embodiment the voice controlled device sets the security levels based on enforcement restrictions provided by developers of applications .

In some embodiments the voice controlled device sets the security procedures based on user provided input e.g. a preferred form of communication . In another embodiment the voice controlled device may set security procedures based on a default configuration or in accordance with application provided restrictions.

At the voice controlled device may set authentication credentials for each user. A primary account holder or an individual user may create their own authentication credentials or choose from a list of recommended authentication credentials e.g. an individual s birthday . As discussed above the authentication credentials may include but are not limited to personal passwords codes personal identification numbers PIN question answer combinations e.g. maiden name favorite childhood pet etc. key fob a series of tones or any type of security mechanism used to authenticate individual users.

At the voice controlled device may store the information in the user profiles . The security requirements module may access the various information stored in the user profiles when determining whether user identification or user authentication is required in response to a request for functionality by a particular user. Moreover the security requirements module may access the information to validate the user.

At the voice controlled device receives speech input. The speech input may be received by the microphones and or processed or analyzed by the speech recognition module . For example a user may say one of the following 

At the security requirements module evaluates the speech input and identifies the functionality requested by the user. As previously discussed above the functionality requested may be non personal and unsecured e.g. examples i and ii provided above personal and unsecured e.g. examples iii iv and non confidential appointments or reminders of example v provided above or secured functionality that involves restricted operations and or confidential information e.g. the confidential appointments or reminders of example v and example vi provided above .

At the security requirements module determines the security requirements for the requested functionality e.g. whether user identification or user authentication is required . In some embodiments the security requirements module may identify an operation mode associated with the security requirements and configure the voice controlled device to implement a process that allows a user to satisfy the security requirements e.g. a user identification process as further explained with respect to or a user authentication process as further explained with respect to .

At once the security requirements have been satisfied the voice controlled device executes the requested functionality provided via one or more of the applications .

In various embodiments a user may configure the voice controlled device to require a minimum level of security. For example a user may define a default configuration where user identification or user authentication is always required. In another example a user may define a default configuration where the voice controlled device wakes up in the unrecognized mode and then acquires user identification or user authentication when necessary. Thus the security requirements module may transition or upgrade to higher levels of security depending on the functionality requested.

Examples i and ii provided above are examples of functionality that may be executed without acquiring user identification or user authentication because music from Internet Radio Station A and the price for diapers at Web Store B is the same for any user requesting the functionality and in most instances this information is not secured.

At the security requirements module determines that the functionality requested by a user is personal to a user and that the functionality requested by the user is unsecured. Again the security requirements module may access information stored in the user profiles and or information associated with the applications to determine whether the functionality requested is personal or secured.

At the security requirements module determines whether the voice controlled device is currently engaged in a session where the user has already been identified or the user has already been authenticated. For example a user may request two different types of functionality within a short period of time and the first requested functionality may require user identification or user authentication. Upon satisfying the security requirements that identify or authenticate the user for the first request the voice controlled device may initiate a timer and start a session e.g. an exclusive session where the voice controlled device is configured to allow the user to make more than one request. Accordingly the voice controlled device may assume that the user is the same during the session.

In various embodiments the session may be configured to be a timed session that expires after a pre determined period has elapsed. The pre determined period of time may be defined in the settings and the pre determined period of time may vary depending on multiple different factors. For example the pre determined period of time may vary depending on whether the user has been identified compared to authenticated the security level satisfied for authentication the type of functionality being performed by the voice controlled device or the application performing the functionality e.g. developer restrictions the individual user that has requested the functionality etc. In other embodiments the session may be configured to allow a pre determined number of requests e.g. one request two requests three requests etc. before ending the session. Similarly this type of session and the number of requests allowed may depend on different factors. In an event a session has ended e.g. timed out or performed the necessary functionality requests the voice controlled device may return to a default configuration e.g. unrecognized mode and the user will be required to identify or authenticate himself or herself again.

If the determination at operation is yes e.g. the user has already been identified or authenticated the process proceeds to operation where the voice controlled device may execute the personal and unsecured functionality e.g. in the recognized mode or authenticated mode . Note that the voice controlled device may perform personal but unsecured functionality for the user if the user has been authenticated because user authentication is a stricter security requirement compared to user identification.

If the determination at operation at is no e.g. the functionality request is the user s first request or any previous requests by the user did not require identification or authentication as security requirements then the process proceeds to operation where the security requirements module may access the user profiles to determine a security procedure to identify the user. For example the security procedure may instruct that the voice controlled device to audibly ask the user for a name.

At the security requirements module may request user identification in accordance with the security procedure determined.

At the security requirements module receives user identification information. In various embodiments the voice controlled device may be configured to perform operations and by prompting the user for the identification information. Accordingly the voice controlled device may audibly ask the user to state a name or other registered identifier. The voice controlled device may issue the prompt when the user fails to provide the identification information when requesting the functionality e.g. examples iv and v provided above where the user requests functionality but fails to provide identification information . In response to the prompt the security requirements module may receive the identification information by receiving an answer indicating that this is John for example. In an alternative embodiment the user may proactively provide the identification information along with the requested functionality e.g. example iii provided above where the user states his name is John before requesting the functionality .

In at least one alternative embodiment the voice controlled device may identify the user by recognizing the voice of the user using a stored voiceprint based form of identification as discussed above e.g. the voiceprint may be indicated in the security procedures .

At the security requirements module determines that the user identification security requirements have been satisfied and executes the personal and unsecured functionality. Examples iii iv and unsecured and non confidential appointments or reminders of example v provided above are functionality that may be executed in the recognized mode or the authenticated mode because my Christmas music playlist the up to date quotes for the stocks I own and my schedule today each indicate that the requests are personal to the user requesting the functionality and in most instances this information is not secured.

At the security requirements module determines that the functionality requested requires authentication. In various embodiments the security requirements module may determine that the functionality is secured functionality by accessing information stored in the user profiles and or application information from one or more applications configured to perform the functionality. For example the security requirements module may determine that the functionality involves confidential information. In another example the security requirements module may determine that the functionality is restricted for the user in accordance with one or more defined settings .

At the security requirements module determines whether the voice controlled device is currently engaged in a session where the user has already been authenticated e.g. a non expired session . In various embodiments a length of an authenticated session may be a shorter period of time compared to a length of an identification session due to the nature of the operations and or the information involved. Moreover the length of an authentication session may vary based on a security level the user must satisfy and the type of functionality being performed.

If the determination at operation is yes e.g. the user has already been authenticated the process proceeds to operation where the voice controlled device may execute the secured functionality in the current session e.g. in the authenticated mode .

If the determination at operation at is no e.g. the functionality request is the user s first request or any previous requests by the user did not require authentication as security requirements and thus the voice controlled device may be operating in the unrecognized or recognized mode then the process proceeds to operation where the security requirements module may access the user profiles to determine a security level and or a security procedure to so the user can satisfy the authentication security requirements. For example depending on the type of functionality requested an application or a primary account holder may define different security levels that provide varying degrees of protection. For example some secured functionality may be associated with minimal protection e.g. a four digit personal authentication code spoken out loud while other secured functionality may be associated with more stringent protection e.g. a four digit personal authentication code plus a time sensitive redemption code provided to the personal device of the user .

At the voice controlled device requests authentication credentials from the user in accordance with the security procedure. At the voice controlled device receives the authentication credentials . In at least one embodiment the voice controlled device may be configured to prompt the user for the authentication credentials by asking the user for the authentication credentials e.g. audibly or electronically . The user may then respond by providing the authentication credentials e.g. audibly or electronically via the security procedure used.

At the security requirements module validates the user by verifying that the authentication credentials received from the user match the authentication credentials in the user profile . As previously discussed above the authentication credentials may include but are not limited to personal passwords codes personal identification numbers PIN question answer combinations e.g. maiden name favorite childhood pet etc. redemption codes e.g. defined or randomly generated key fob a series of tones or any type of security mechanism used to authenticate individual users. Moreover the authentication credentials may be user defined or randomly generated by the voice controlled device .

At the voice controlled device performs the secured functionality requested by the user. The secured and or confidential appointments or reminders of example v provided above as well as example vi may be functionality that is configured to involve user authentication as a security requirement because a user may want some appointments and reminders to be secret and or protected and account holders may not want anyone e.g. a guest to be able to make purchases on and account e.g. want to ensure that only registered users can make purchases .

In various embodiments the user can also instruct the voice controlled device to end the session before the session is automatically terminated by the voice controlled device e.g. after a timeout period has elapsed . By ending or terminating a session the voice controlled device may not be susceptible to executing secured functionality for a non validated user. This scenario may occur when a first user is validated and then exits the environment where the voice controlled device operates and a second user then requests secured functionality and the voice controlled device executes the secured functionality thinking the second user is the first user.

At the voice controlled device located in an environment with a user receives speech input. For examples the voice controlled device may employ the microphones to receive the speech input.

At the voice controlled device determines if the speech input requests functionality to be performed by the applications . For example the voice controlled device may employ the speech recognition module and or the security requirements module to determine if the input requests functionality.

If the determination at is no then the voice controlled device returns to a state where it waits for further speech input. If the determination at is yes then at A and or B the security requirements module determines security requirements for the requested functionality. As depicted this may occur at the voice controlled device at A the servers at B or a combination thereof.

At the voice controlled device interacts with the user to receive identification information when identification is required as a security requirement or to receive authentication information when authentication is required as a security requirement.

At the voice controlled device may send the identification information and or the authenticated information received from the user to the servers .

At the servers may validate the identification information and or authentication information so that the appropriate or proper functionality can be executed.

At A and B the security requirements module executes the functionality for the user. As depicted this may occur at the voice controlled device at A the servers at B or a combination thereof.

The technique described above and illustrated in is merely an example and implementations are not limited to this technique. Rather other techniques for determining the security requirements that must be satisfied for requested functionality and or operating modes for the device and system architecture may be employed and the implementations of the system disclosed herein are not limited to any particular technique.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features described. Rather the specific features are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims.

