---

title: State and availability monitoring for customer support services for multimedia conferences
abstract: A system and method are described for providing support services via a virtual production environment. The system may include a help center interface, an agent interface, and a communications server running in association with a contact center manager application. The system may further include a reflector. The contact center manager application matches customers with suitable agents in the virtual production environment in the context of providing customer support in response to customer support requests. The method may include transmitting a customer support request to the contact center manager application, wherein a determination of whether a suitable agent is available is made by the contact center manager application; and connecting to a communications session corresponding to a session address provided by the contact center manager application for the customer device based on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137029&OS=09137029&RS=09137029
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09137029
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
Face to face or in person interactions among groups of individuals allow each individual to observe the behavior mood expressions tone and the like of the other individuals in the group not discernable from voice interaction alone. The human experience of direct interaction is always preferable to interaction at a distance that limits communications.

Additionally group interaction facilitates relationship building by the creation of shared experiences. Traditionally group interaction that builds relationships within the group was restricted to face to face meetings of the group. Of course groups have long been able to meet and interact when separated physically using telephony technology. More recently group meetings involving participants at remote locations have been enhanced with the addition of live video feeds of the participants. Both personal computers PCs and personal digital assistants PDAs are now commonly equipped with both microphones and video cameras that provide the basic resources for creating a shared multimedia session among a group of individuals with PCs and or smart phones. These devices rely on Internet based communication protocols such as Voice over IP VoIP .

Meanwhile conventional agent support systems continue to provide technical support for users of these rapidly evolving multimedia communications environments. Managing agent resources outside of the environment of the multimedia communications environment makes for inefficiencies and possibly even requests for assistance that are ignored.

According to an embodiment a system for providing support services via a virtual production environment includes a help center interface connected to one or more customer devices configured to receive customer support requests from the one or more customer devices and to communicate with a contact center manager CCM application an agent interface connected to one or more agent devices configured to communicate agent availability information to the CCM application and a communications server running in association with the CCM application. The CCM application is configured to provide a session address to the one or more customer devices and the one or more agent devices and to match the one or more customer devices with the one or more agent devices based on the agent availability information and matching rules. The communications server is configured to maintain a communications session between the one or more customer devices and the one or more agent devices based on matching by the CCM application.

In a further embodiment the CCM application is further configured to provide an unmatched customer device or unmatched agent device with a new session address so as to connect the unmatched customer device or the unmatched agent device to a new communications session. A new multimedia communications session may be an ambient multimedia communications session until a matched customer device or a matched agent device is connected to the new communications session. In another embodiment the help center interface is further configured to receive information specifying one or more customer support request categories and the matching rules include an agent skill map that maps skills of agent to the one or more customer support request categories.

According to another embodiment a system for providing support services via a multimedia production environment includes one or more agent devices for communicating with a communications server using voice over internet protocol VoIP and sending and receiving multimedia content a reflector for receiving multimedia content from the one or more agent devices and one or more customer devices processing the received multimedia content and sending a plurality of processed multimedia streams for playback at the one or more agent devices and the one or more customer devices and a contact center manager CCM application running on the communications server. The CCM application receives customer support requests from the one or more customer devices providing a session address to the one or more customer devices and the one or more agent devices and matching the one or more customer devices with the one or more agent devices based on agent availability information and matching rules.

According to yet another embodiment a method for receiving support services via a multimedia production environment includes transmitting a customer support request to a contact center manager application wherein a determination of whether a suitable agent is available is made by the contact center manager application based on customer support request information agent availability information and matching rules and connecting to a communications session corresponding to a session address provided by the contact center manager application for a customer device based on the determination. The multimedia production environment includes a contact center manager application and the method is performed at the customer device.

A multimedia production environment provides a mechanism for two or more individuals to interact in the same virtual location which may be described as a virtual hangout. A virtual hangout supports multiple users using diverse communication tools to interact collaborate and or share information and experiences in the same virtual environment. In an Internet environment the virtual hangout is hosted by one or more servers that support communications sessions with user machines equipped with resources such as microphones and video cameras. For example individuals participating in a virtual hangout may share and watch videos play games participate in video audio or text chat surf the web seek or provide assistance regarding a particular problem or any combination thereof. In other words a virtual hangout is where individuals may share an experience substantially similar to interacting face to face or in person at the same physical location.

When an individual desires to interact with a group of others in a virtual environment the individual employs a client device to either initiate a virtual hangout session or join an existing virtual hangout session. When establishing a new virtual hangout session the individual invites others to join the session. Typically to join an existing virtual hangout session each participant must be invited. Invitations arrive via e mail or text messaging services. An individual can request joining an existing hangout session even though he or she has not received an invitation assuming the URL for the session is known. Additionally individuals participating in a virtual hangout session may cause the session to link to external resources and integrate those external resources into the participates graphical user interfaces GUI .

In an embodiment management of technical support services and agents who provide those services is brought into the realm of the multimedia production environment i.e. via virtual hangouts which enables the environment to manage overall support resources and most efficiently match and join these resources to requests for assistance. Using the multimedia production environment customers requesting assistance and agents providing assistance are efficiently matched up with one another in the multimedia production environment and able to leverage the advantages of the multimedia production environment over conventional agent support systems.

An example multimedia production environment is described in detail with respect to . The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments to practice the disclosure. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of multimedia production environments that include agent support services within the environment.

Turning to one or more client devices are connected to a communications session supporting a multimedia production environment that enables communication among the users of the client devices. Examples of client devices and A C include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments two or more client devices are the same type of device. For example client devices and A may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments two or more client devices are different types of devices. For example client devices and A may both be mobile telephones and client device B may be a desktop computer.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device communicates with a server device via a communications channel . The communications channel typically includes an Internet connection between the client device and the server device . The server device often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communications sessions such as communications session . Of course each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine.

One or more of the communications sessions are virtual hangouts. In another embodiment the client device maintains or hosts a communications session and other client devices such as client devices A C in are routed to the communications session at the client device by server device or directly connect to the client device via an ad hoc network or the like. Additionally while depicted as a single device in in some embodiments server device includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations.

Communications or hangout sessions at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server. For example the run time engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the hangout session and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the hangout session by way of an application programming interface API .

The client device of includes application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client device with a variety of functionality. Examples include social media functionality web browsing capabilities calendars contact information games and document processing. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI .

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing user in to establish or join a hangout session. Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device to a network such as the Internet using standard network protocol techniques. Two or more client devices and A may join the same communications session hosted at the communications server . Through the communications session the communications module at the client device enables the user to invite other users to the join the session.

Once a communications session is established a communications channel between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device . For example if the client device is a mobile device connecting through to the communications session by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to client device . Furthermore communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to communications server .

GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which a virtual hangout may be initiated and sustained. In the illustrated embodiment GUI includes information about one or more other users connected to user by the communications session . The GUI may also include information about other hangouts user may join notifications of events or invitations and other information relevant to user .

After a communications session or hangout is created by a user other users may join following a request approve process. For example user may send a request to user A requesting to be connected to user A s hangout session. In order to complete the request user A chooses to either accept or deny the request. Upon accepting the request communications session connects user into the hangout session initiated by user A. In some instances user A grants permission to user to view personal information entered by user A posts created by user A or other users connected to user A.

The GUI may also support the ability to broadcast the availability of a session or hangout to a circle of friends defined by each user. The GUI of each friend identifies the available hangout session and the client includes URL information that allows the user to join the hangout if desired. Each client may include multiple circles of friends with each defined by social attributes. For example one circle of friends may include friends established from a common working relationship. Another circle of friends may include friends established from familial relationships. Another circle of friends could include friends established from a common educational background or experience. The GUI supports invitations to individuals or to one or ore circles of friends.

Also each circle of friends may be associated with a different profile of permissions or privileges through the GUI such that the circle is able to view a different subset of information about the user. A friend can be included in more than one circle. In that case the GUI allows the user to determine whether the broadest or narrowest set of permissions or privileges of the circles to which the friend belongs are given to the individual friend.

As shown in client devices A C include communications clients A C respectively that enable users A C to join one or more of the hangouts or communications sessions . Each of the communications clients A C includes the same or similar functionality as the communications client .

In order to establish or join a virtual hangout user interacts with GUI to cause communications client to generate a request to create a new communications session or join an existing communications session . For example GUI includes a Create Hangout button that user activates in order to create a new hangout. In response to user activating the Create Hangout button communications client sends a request to initiate a new communications session to communications server which establishes a new virtual hangout.

User may invite additional users to the hangout session such as users A C in while the virtual hangout is being instantiated or anytime thereafter. At the GUI user selects individual friends or one or more different circles of friends to join the hangout. The selected friends are sent invitations via various conventional means such as text messaging and e mail. The invitations include all information required for the invited friend to find and join the hangout session.

For example to join an existing hangout or communications session the user selects a join link icon at the GUI and selects a hangout from a displayed list of available hangouts at the GUI or selects a join link icon displayed in an external source such as an instant message or posting. However communicated to the user in response to user initiating an attempt to join an existing virtual hangout session communications client sends a request to join the virtual hangout to the communications server . The request includes an identifier of the particular communications session associated with the virtual hangout. The identifier may be included in the join link for the virtual hangout. Communications server connects communications client to the specified communications session . In another example a user that is logged into a website may join an existing or new hangout by pressing a button or link on a web page such as a customer support center landing page. As will be described further below in the customer support context such landing page may include input fields for specifying the type of help that the user is seeking.

Referring now to one particular example of client device is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client device may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in the hangout sessions. In the illustrated embodiment of the client device includes one or more processors memory a network interface one or more storage devices power source output device and input device . The client device also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client. In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

As illustrated processors are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device . For example processors execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory is maintains program instructions for execution by the processors .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB. In some embodiments the client device uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server device of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client device includes one or more input devices . Input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device . Output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client. Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source . As illustrated in communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device . In other embodiments communications client receives input form one or more of the input devices of the client device . Communications client preferably receives audio and video information associated with a communications session e.g. a virtual hangout from other client devices participating in the communications session.

The communications client initiates a hangout session from the client device and maintains the session with the communications session at the communications server while the client performs other tasks. Once one or more other users join the hangout session the application engine at the communications server may provide additional services to the session that supports interaction among users.

The client device can maintain one or more ambient hangouts in its background. By maintaining the ambient hangouts in its background the client device saves computing resources including power bandwidth processor speed memory and the like. While a hangout is ambient user is able to use other features or applications of the client device such as application s . As shown in GUI displays application interface . Application interface allows user to use and interact with application s which in one embodiment can be a internet browser such as Internet Explorer . For example while client device maintains an ambient hangout in its background user may interact with application interface to view social media browse the web view a calendar and or contacts play games process documents or any other function performed by a computing device such as client device . In some examples application interface is a graphical display that is not interactive.

The communications client causes GUI to display a user selectable button . Non limiting examples of the button are a virtual or graphical button such as a key of a virtual keyboard a touch target a physical button of client device or a button on an input device coupled to client device such as a mouse button a button on a mobile device or a key of a keyboard. Of course GUI may include other graphical controls as well.

In communications client is also configured to cause GUI to display an availability indication . The availability indication indicates to individual friends and or circles whether user is available to engage in a communications session . The availability of user is communicated to selected friends. In some instances availability indication indicates that user is not currently available for a communications session. Other times availability indication indicates that user is currently available for a communications session. In some embodiments availability indication is only present in GUI when user enables it. In some embodiments availability indication is only displayed when the communications session is ambient and not when user is engaged in the communications session. Availability indication may be a graphical icon or shape such as a small circle whose visual properties change between user being available and being unavailable. For example availability indication may be a shape that is red when user is unavailable to hangout and green when user is available to hangout. Alternatively availability indication is not present regardless of whether an ambient communications session has been initiated.

In some embodiments user interacts with a social media application such as web based application supported by an Internet browser application where a list of user s contacts is provided such as in a list of icons or thumb images. Each friend may be associated with an indication similar to availability indication that informs user if the friend is available for or desires to engage in a hangout session. If the friend is available to hangout in a communications session the indication includes an attribute informing the user that the friend is online and available to hangout. If the friend is offline or otherwise unavailable an attribute of the indication informs the user that the friend is unavailable. In some embodiments user is able to see information of other users who are not in a friend list of user . Alternatively a friend only shows up on the list if the friend is either available or online.

User may toggle or select button in order to indicate that user is available or unavailable for a communications session . Availability indication is then displayed on output device or availability indication changes to reflect availability of user . In contrast if user was previously available and toggles button availability indication shows that user is unavailable. Toggling or selecting button causes communications client to issue a signal indicating to other computing devices that user is available to participate in a communications session. In some instances the signal is broadcasted to a circle of contacts of user for example by first sending the signaling to a centralized management application i.e. the contact center manager as described further below that keeps track of the states of users. In other instances the centralized management application may keep track of customer and agent states and make determinations with respect to connecting a suitable agent to a hangout where a customer is waiting or connecting a customer to a hangout where a suitable agent is waiting.

As described user may be using application s while communication module operates an ambient hangout in the background of the client device . When the hangout session initiated by user is an ambient hangout he is not active in the hangout. As soon as a second user enters the hangout the communications session supporting the hangout provides full functionality to the hangout session and it ceases to be an ambient hangout. In other examples the hangout is ambient only if user is not currently participating in the hangout.

The graphical user interface GUI of is an example of the GUI of client device of . However the graphical display of may be outputted using other devices. A client application supporting hangout sessions is typically contained within an internet browser session. The application exposes a number of features to the user through the GUI. These graphically displayed features include a video display of one or more participants in the hangout. A chat feature is also provided including a chat history and a field where a user can such as user input text to the chat conversation. GUI is also configured to display graphical images that are associated with participants in the hangout. Graphical images include images of users currently participating in the hangout.

In the example GUI a live bar provides information to user including information describing the availability of friends or other users or contacts to join the hangout. In one embodiment live bar is a scrollable bar that displays graphical images associated with contacts or other users who may be currently available to hang out in a communications session. Selection of one of the graphical images sends an invitation to join the hangout to the user associated with that image. In some embodiments live bar is updated in real time to reflect actual availability of the users displayed. The users displayed on live bar may be displayed as graphical still photos for example icons or with a live video feed if the user has a camera enabled. The example GUI includes additional a user selectable button which functions to toggle live bar between being displayed and hidden. Buttons allows the user to scroll through the different users.

Referring to in one embodiment an application programming interface API of an Application Engine or App Engine provides many resources to the communications session e.g. a hangout session . In turn the App Engine depends on resources provided from an API exposed by a Resource Infrastructure Layer and a Networking Infrastructure Layer which are supported by the communications servers and their Operating Systems . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer connect HTTP requests from the user to the communications sessions . The App Engine also provides a runtime environment for the communications sessions . Administrative support for the communications sessions are provided by a Contact Center Manager CCM in the App Engine as described in greater detail hereafter in connection with . The App Engine also provides access to a database in the Resource Infrastructure Layer for persistent storage requirements of the communications sessions . It will be appreciated that applications such as the CCM running on the App Engine include computer executable instructions that are stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium for example at a communications server and executed by a processor. It will be further appreciated that various components may be integrated into a single platform while maintaining their individual functionality and identity. Such a platform may be supported by a single server or by several servers. Moreover the servers may be embodied in a single physical machine or several physical machines.

Through its API the App Engine provides the communications sessions access to resources on the Internet such as web services or other data. The App Engine retrieves web resources using the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The communications session also sends and receives messages using the App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer . The App Engine and the Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a cache which is useful for temporary data or data copied from the datastore to the cache for high speed access. The Resource Infrastructure Layer also supports a file system and scheduling resources. An example of the App Engine includes Google s App Engine. An example of the Resource Infrastructure Layer the Networking Infrastructure Layer and the Operating System is Google s supporting infrastructure and operating system for its App Engine. Additionally the communications session may include an API that controls and receives events into and out of the communications session . For example the API of the communications session may allow other applications to be brought into the communications session as well as communicating agent and customer state changes during the communications session .

Given the context of the example multimedia production environment described in the provision of agent support services within such a multimedia production environment according to exemplary embodiments is discussed in further detail with respect to . A customer device connects to the multimedia production environment through a help center frontend . In one exemplary embodiment when the customer device is a device connected to the Internet or other network connected to the multimedia production environment with a browser the help center frontend includes a landing page website displayed to the user hosted by a web server e.g. a customer support site . The help center backend may include application servers that communicate with the App Engine of the multimedia production environment in order to route the customer device to an appropriate communications session or hangout . The help center frontend and help center backend make up a help center interface that acts as an intermediary between the customer device and the CCM running on the App Engine .

In one exemplary embodiment the landing page of the help center frontend simply includes an option to request customer support e.g. such as a button that acts as a link to join a communications session with an agent when an agent becomes available . In other exemplary embodiments the landing page of the help center frontend includes an interactive interface through which the customer can specify the nature of the customer s service request. A help request may include information of the nature of the need causing the user to make the help request. The information describing the help request may be taken from a template presented to a user when a help request is initiated. The template can be a pop up window appearing after the help request is made or it can be a drop down menu enabled when the help request is initiated. Any sort of structured entry of attributes of the help request that complements the information used by the matching rules module of the CCM described in further detail below may be appropriate for the user interface at the customer device . For example the landing page may provide a list of common problem categories and allow the customer to choose or specify one or more relevant categories and may further include a text input box where the customer can include a typed description of the service request before relaying the request to the help center backend . Additionally information related to a customer may be determined based on the customer having previously authenticated himself or herself e.g. by logging in or based on a customer number. For example if a customer logs into the landing page the help center backend can do a data lookup to determine information including but not limited to the identity of the customer what products the customer is using any history of help requests and whether the customer is a high value or new customer.

In another exemplary embodiment when the customer device is a conventional phone client the help center frontend and help center backend may be part of an integration infrastructure that converts the audio content of the conventional phone client to content that is compatible with the multimedia production environment e.g. into VoIP format and interfaces with the App Engine of the multimedia production environment in order to route the customer device to an appropriate communications session . It will be appreciated that customers connecting to the help center frontend from conventional phone clients may also specify a service request category and provide a short description of their service request for example through an Interactive Voice Response IVR system that screens the incoming service request call before sending the information onto the App Engine to match the call with an agent in the multimedia production environment.

In another exemplary embodiment the customer device may already be part of an ongoing communications session when the customer device requests customer support. For example within the GUI of the communications session there may be a help button included that allows a customer to request customer assistance see . When that button is pressed by a customer an agent may be brought into the ongoing communications session when available. Alternatively pressing the help button may result in the customer joining a new virtual hangout as if the customer had entered through a landing page as described above . In still another alternative example pressing the help button may open a customer support landing page in a browser allowing the customer to specify details regarding the nature of the customer s service request as described above.

When the customer device requests assistance from the help center frontend the help center frontend relays this request to the help center backend which then communicates with the CCM of the App Engine to determine if an agent is available. The CCM receives information from ongoing communications sessions through an application programming interface API which the CCM uses to manage assignment of support resources to the hangout session when a help request is created. Upon initiation of a communications session whether by a user or agent the CCM monitors information pertaining to the communications session through the API such as an identification number of the hangout the hangout URL i.e. a session address corresponding to a virtual location for the hangout a topic of the hangout if appropriate a name of the hangout and similar types of attributes that may be useful to technical support agents or to the CCM s management of the agent resources in response to a help request for any given hangout session. The hangout sessions may be initiated for the sole purpose of providing a forum for an interaction between a user of hangouts and an agent in order to assist the user for a technical issue. Alternatively an agent may join an existing hangout initiated for purposes of social interaction independent of the technical support requested from the help request.

The CCM includes modules for managing agent resources. A few example modules for managing agent resources are depicted in . An agent state module includes a list of all agents and data identifying the state of the agent e.g. available or busy . A hangout URL list module includes a list of the current hangouts. For example the hangout URL list includes a list of customers if any that are in communications sessions that are waiting for agents a list of agents if any that are in communications sessions that are waiting for customers and a list of ongoing communications sessions with one or more customers and agents participating. The hangout URL list may further include a list of all ongoing communications sessions generally any one of which may generate a help request during the hangout session in response to a customer selecting the help button .

The CCM further includes a matching rules module that includes any number of rules for matching customer support requests with suitable agents. For example the matching rules module can include an agent skill mapping that indicates or maps which agents have skills or expertise that are suitable for addressing certain categories of service requests that may be designated by the customers on the landing page of the help center frontend as described above. The agent skill mapping can be a simple agent to expertise mapping or can be a more sophisticated tiered mapping that includes different levels of expertise and different rankings. For a more sophisticated tiered mapping the matching algorithm may for example take into account an agents rank and primary or secondary levels or expertise to match an agent with a particular customer support request. Another example would be to match customers with agents based on time of day considerations or based on how long certain customers and agents have been waiting for a match. It will be appreciated that the aforementioned rules are only intended to be examples of a wide variety of rules that could be implemented. For example other rules could include algorithms such as time dependent relaxation of matching criteria i.e. as a customer or agent waits longer and longer the criteria for matching them to a suitable party becomes looser and looser or be based on user specific characteristics e.g. allowing premium users to jump ahead of a customer queue or giving low priority to blacklisted users .

Upon receiving a service request if a suitable agent is available i.e. there is an agent waiting in an existing communications session according to the CCM the App Engine sends an existing hangout URL back to the help center backend which relays the URL to the help center frontend . The help center frontend then facilitates the joining of the hangout i.e. communications session by the customer device . If no suitable agent is available at the time of the request according to the CCM the App Engine sends a new hangout URL back to the help center backend which relays the new URL to the help center frontend . The customer device joins a communications session based on the new hangout URL and when a suitable agent becomes available according to the CCM the suitable agent is joined to the communications session . As described above information pertaining to ongoing communications sessions including ambient communications sessions with only one party connected is monitored by the CCM and stored in the hangout URL list module .

In a further embodiment the agent is given the opportunity to review the details of the service request via the agent frontend and decide whether to join in a particular communications session . For example if the agent is determined to be suitable and available based on the agent state module and matching rules module of the CCM but upon reading the description of the customer s service request the agent realizes that the agent would be unable to help with that request or knows of another agent more suitable for that request the agent can decline to join in the communications session and may further indicate another type of agent or specific agent that may be better suited to help. The matching rules would then take this into account in searching for a new agent to match with the customer waiting in that particular communications session .

An agent participates in the aforementioned customer support communications sessions by connecting to the multimedia production environment through an agent frontend . For example when an agent initially connects to the multimedia production environment or finishes a communications session with a customer the agent may connect to an agent frontend via an agent device . The agent device is preferably a computing device capable of utilizing all of the functionality of the multimedia production environment e.g. audio and video communication using VoIP . Information corresponding to agents such as expertise work schedules and availability is stored in the App Engine and may be associated with an agent for example based on the agent connecting to the agent frontend through a log in page. Agent availability is provided to the CCM from the agent backend through the API and the CCM updates the Agent State module accordingly. During the agent s work day his or her status toggles between available and busy. This status is continuously updated at the CCM by way of the API between the agent backend and the CCM . An agent may also use the agent frontend to input agent skill map information that will be relayed to the CCM by the agent backend and stored in the matching rules module of the CCM .

The agent frontend together with the agent backend and App Engine serves to route an agent to an appropriate communications session . The agent frontend and agent backend make up an agent interface that acts as an intermediary between the agent device and the CCM running on the App Engine . For example if an agent begins his or her working shift and logs into the system the agent may first access a landing page for agents that shows information such as pending customer support requests corresponding to ongoing ambient communications sessions where customers are waiting along with information pertaining to those service requests e.g. type of help needed amount of time pending . In one example embodiment the agent frontend may require the agent to join the communications session that the CCM has deemed most appropriate by providing the corresponding hangout URL to the agent frontend through the agent backend and automatically connecting the agent device with the communications session corresponding to that hangout URL. Alternatively if no ongoing communications sessions are deemed suitable for that agent the agent may be automatically routed according to a new hangout URL provided by the App Engine to a new communications session where the agent waits for a suitable customer to be matched to that agent and routed to the communications session where the agent is waiting. In another alternative embodiment each agent has his or her own home page and can join a hangout in a manner similar to any customer. However unlike customers an agent is registered with the CCM .

In one example embodiment once an agent becomes available the agent is added to an ordered list maintained by the agent state module of the CCM. The agent may remain in whatever communications session the agent was previously in or may be assigned a new communications session . When a customer makes a request for assistance the CCM may match that agent with the service request and deliver the hangout URL corresponding to that agent s communications session to the customer. The customer device uses the information in the URL to join the agent s communications session . Alternatively if the customer is also waiting in an existing communications session the CCM can provide the hangout URL corresponding to the customer s communications session to the agent and the agent can join the customer s communications session .

In a further embodiment the agent may be given the option to accept or decline being joined to ongoing communications session or reject incoming customer connections to a communications session in which the agent is waiting based on the information about the customer support request. Alternatively the agent may be provided with a list of customer support requests to choose from at a landing page provided by the agent frontend or while the agent is waiting in an ambient communications session . The agent can then choose to join an ongoing communications session or allow a customer device to connect to the agent s ambient communications session based on the information pertaining to that customer s request.

In summary depicts an example embodiment of how an agent and a customer are routed to a suitable communications session based on hangout URLs provided by a CCM of an App Engine . If a suitable match cannot be found when either the agent or the customer connect to the multimedia production environment the agent or the customer may wait in an ambient communications session until a suitable match becomes available and is added to the ambient communications session turning it into an active customer support communications session . On the other hand when more than one agent is available to respond to a help request the CCM uses agent information service request information and matching rules to match the help request to the best available agent. In any case when a suitable match is determined by the CCM the matched agent or customer is joined to a customer or agent respectively waiting in an existing communications session .

Additionally customers and or agents can request additional resources to be brought into the communications session . For example it may be helpful for an agent to play an instructional streaming video to the customer to assist the customer with the customer s service request. In such case pursuant to an agent s request the CCM can communicate with a media server to send that streaming video content to the reflector for playback to the customer s IP client device . Utilizing this architecture the agent can further provide commentary while the streaming video is playing to help the customer better understand the streaming video. Other resources that could be requested to be brought into the communications session include without limitation an IVR application or a recorder that records the communications session .

In the case of customers using conventional phone clients to request customer support such conventional phone client calls can be integrated into the multimedia production environment through integration infrastructure . This integration infrastructure for example can include a bridge system with appropriate gateways and soft switch applications for conversion of call signals to an IP compatible format such as VoIP. The multimedia content provided through the reflector will also have to pass through the integration infrastructure and converted into an audio format compatible with the conventional phone client . Although conventional phone clients will be unable to utilize certain functionality of the multimedia production environment e.g. streaming video these conventional phone clients can still advantageously be assigned to communications sessions and matched with agents in a manner that is similar to customers using IP client devices .

In one example if there are tiered matching rules where a first agent is preferable to a second agent for a particular problem but the second agent was unavailable at the time the service request was received the first agent might have been matched with the customer. When the second agent becomes available and no other customer requests are outstanding that require the second agent s attention the second agent may be joined to the communications session according to the matching rules in addition to the first agent to further assist the customer. In another example the customer may request e.g. through an appropriate button that a supervisory agent be joined to the communications session for example if the agent currently working with the customer is doing an unsatisfactory job. In yet another example the customer or agent can request other resources to be brought in such as streaming video for relevant demonstrations or instructions an IVR or a recorder. It will be appreciated that the foregoing examples are merely example and that other sorts of matching rules customer or agent requests and resource types are also feasible.

At stage if the CCM is unable to find a suitable agent to match with a customer support request the unmatched customer device is provided with a new hangout URL at stage and connected to a new communications session . Similar to stage at stage agent s and or resource s are later added to the communications session . For example when a suitable agent becomes available the suitable agent is added to the communications session .

In one embodiment an IVR may first be added to the communications session in lieu of an agent while no suitable agents are available in order to assist the customer or gather preliminary information. The IVR could ask simple questions to the customer and may further cause appropriate instructional videos to be played back in the communications session to the customer based on the customer s responses. Thus the IVR may solve the customer s issue even before an agent becomes available to assist the customer. In addition when the agent becomes available the agent can be joined to the communications session without interrupting the IVR. Alternatively an IVR or other resources can be added to the communications session while the customer is waiting to entertain the customer. For example the customer could use the GUI of the communications session to play streaming videos or listen to music while the customer waits. A selection of music and or videos may further be provided to the customer via the communications session .

In an example embodiment as the agent is providing service to the customer through the customer s client device e.g. IP client device s conventional phone client s etc. the agent may utilize the agent device to initiate other resources such as video response units stored video information audio information web information etc. All of the resources that are available in the communications session as described in this disclosure could be utilized by the agent to provide service to the client. The multimedia client service may be free flowing and unscripted as resources are streamed to the user. In such instances an example embodiment provides in relation to that the agent provides input to the agent device that generates an agent resource request indicating an agent resource that should be joined to the communications session. The agent resource request is transferred to the app engine which may provide routing information for such selected agent resource to join it with the communications session . In another example embodiment the hangout coordinator as shown in may receive such agent resource request at the CCM which provides a direction to media server or other resource to join the communications session and connect to the reflector . As further information is obtained or provided other resources may be similarly joined.

In the example embodiments the various applications can be configured on any distributed or embedded platform within a single location or multiple locations. For example the CCM may be resident on an individual and separate platform or may be embedded into a server platform. Similarly some of the resources may reside on individual and separate platforms or they may be embedded into the server or other platforms. As such embodiments contemplate that applications resources managers servers etc. may be joined or separated without diverging from their identities and functions. For example a server system may include a single server platform or multiple server platforms.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the disclosure. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

