---

title: Communicating with an endpoint using matrix barcodes
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving, by an endpoint from a client, an image generated by the client. The endpoint determines that the image generated by the client includes a matrix barcode. The endpoint decodes the matrix barcode to determine one or more instructions associated with text encoded within the matrix barcode. The method further includes performing the one or more instructions associated with the encoded text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854413&OS=08854413&RS=08854413
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08854413
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
The present disclosure relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to communicating with an endpoint using matrix barcodes.

A client such as a laptop may interface with an endpoint in order to utilize functionality provided by the endpoint. An endpoint is a computing system that includes resources that may be accessed by the client. One example of an endpoint is a telepresence system. A telepresence system generally includes high quality video and audio input and output and may be used for videoconferencing and other collaboration. When a client interfaces with a telepresence system the client may access for example a video camera microphone display and speaker system of the telepresence system.

According to one embodiment a method includes receiving by an endpoint from a client an image generated by the client. The endpoint determines that the image generated by the client includes a matrix barcode. The endpoint decodes the matrix barcode to determine one or more instructions associated with text encoded within the matrix barcode. The method further includes performing the one or more instructions associated with the encoded text.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may provide one or more technical advantages. A technical advantage of one embodiment is that a client may communicate with an endpoint by sending an image of a matrix barcode in a video stream to the endpoint. Another technical advantage of one embodiment is that a client may be logged into an endpoint by providing user credentials through a video stream between the client and the endpoint. Another technical advantage of one embodiment is that an instruction may be performed by an endpoint in response to detecting a matrix barcode encoding the instruction or text associated with the instruction in a video stream from the client.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure may include none some or all of the above technical advantages. One or more other technical advantages may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures descriptions and claims included herein.

Client may interface with telepresence system in order to access resources and functionality provided by the telepresence system. For example client may utilize video and audio input and output of telepresence system to communicate with telepresence systems and in a videoconference presentation or other communication session. Telepresence system may be configured to provide access to certain resources or functionality only after it has determined that client is authorized to access telepresence system . For example telepresence system may require user credentials such as a valid user name and password from client before allowing client to control certain aspects of telepresence system . In some situations it may be cumbersome for client to communicate user credentials to telepresence system . For example client and telepresence system may be coupled to different networks that do not share information with each other. As another example in particular embodiments telepresence system is not configured with a keyboard or similar input device or is not configured to accept user credentials from such input devices.

In particular embodiments of the present disclosure client is operable to generate an image that includes a matrix barcode with encoded text. The encoded text may include user credentials or other text associated with an operation that may be performed by telepresence system . The image is presented to telepresence system for example in a video stream sent from client to telepresence system via connection . Telepresence system scans the image determines that a matrix barcode is included in the image and decodes the text. Telepresence system then acts in accordance with the decoded text. For example telepresence system may initiate a login sequence if the text includes user credentials. After verifying the user credentials telepresence system may allow client to access functionality of telepresence system or customize itself according to a profile associated with the user credentials. As another example telepresence system may establish a communication session with another endpoint if the text includes identification information associated with the other endpoint. In various embodiments telepresence system may perform any suitable instruction associated with the decoded text.

System includes any suitable number of telepresence systems . A telepresence system may include any suitable hardware software or other elements for facilitating a communication session such as a videoconference with another telepresence system client or other endpoint. In the illustrated embodiment telepresence system includes processor storage communication interface memory display audio interface and video interface . Processor storage communication interface and memory will be described in further detail below.

In the embodiment depicted memory includes provisioning logic . Provisioning logic may be operable to configure telepresence system . For example such configuration may include allowing or disallowing access by client to particular functions or resources of telepresence system . In particular embodiments provisioning logic receives user credentials checks the credentials against valid credentials stored by telepresence system login server or other suitable entity and initiates a login sequence if the received user credentials are valid. Configuration performed by provisioning logic may also include customizing any suitable features for a user of telepresence system such as desktop settings audio setting video settings or other suitable settings. Customized settings for a user may be associated with the user credentials of the user and stored at telepresence system in provisioning profiles of login server or other location. These settings may be retrieved by provisioning logic during provisioning of telepresence system . In particular embodiments configuration by provisioning logic is performed in response to a detection by telepresence system of valid user credentials encoded in an image of a matrix barcode generated by client .

Memory may also include matrix barcode detection logic . Matrix barcode detection logic may be operable to receive an image such as a bitmap and determine whether a matrix barcode is in the image. Matrix barcode detection logic may also identify text that is encoded within a matrix barcode depicted in the image. Matrix barcode detection logic may be operable to decode any suitable matrix barcode and may include any suitable matrix barcode reader.

Audio interface may include any suitable hardware software or other elements that facilitate audio input and output. For example audio interface may include one or more speakers microphones controllers for processing audio data or other suitable elements. Video interface may include any suitable hardware software or other elements that facilitate video input or output. For example video interface may include one or more video cameras still cameras controllers for processing video data or other suitable elements. Cameras may include any suitable hardware and or software to facilitate the capturing of an image. A video camera may capture and transmit its obtained images as a video signal e.g. a high definition video signal . Video interface may be operable to receive a video stream from connection and perform any suitable processing of the video stream such as capturing a frame of the video stream converting the frame into a suitable image file for further processing or converting the video stream into a suitable format for display by telepresence system or transmission to other telepresence endpoints and

Display may include any suitable hardware software or other elements to facilitate the displaying of images. For example display may include a wall mounted monitor a floor mounted monitor or a free standing monitor. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an LED backlight LCD or other suitable display. Display may display images using any suitable technology that provides a realistic image such as high definition high power compression hardware and efficient encoding decoding standards. Display may be used to display other participants in a videoconference a video stream from client an image or video stream obtained by video interface or other suitable images or video streams.

Client represents any suitable computing device operable to interface with another endpoint such as telepresence system . Client may include any suitable hardware software or other elements. In the embodiment depicted client includes processor storage communication interface display memory and video interface . In the embodiment depicted memory includes matrix barcode generator logic for receiving text and encoding the text in a matrix barcode. Processor storage communication interface and memory will be described in further detail below.

Display may include any suitable hardware software or other elements to facilitate the displaying of images. For example display may include an LCD an LED display an LED backlight LCD or other suitable display. Display may display images using any suitable technology. Display may be used to display a video stream generated by client e.g. by the operating system of client or telepresence system or other suitable video or images.

Video interface may include any suitable hardware software or other elements that facilitate video input or output. For example video interface may include one or more controllers for processing video data and transmitting the processed video data e.g. a video stream to display or to an endpoint such as telepresence system that client interfaces with. Video interface may include a video output port that interfaces with connection . In particular embodiments video interface sends a video stream to communication interface . Communication interface then wirelessly transmits the video stream to a communication interface of the receiving endpoint such as communication interface of telepresence system

Connection represents any suitable medium for communication between client and telepresence system . As an example connection may be a video cable such as a Video Graphics Array VGA Digital Visual Interface DVI or High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI video cable that connects video interface to video interface . As another example connection may be a line of sight between a camera of telepresence system and display of client such that the camera may capture an image displayed by client .

In particular embodiments telepresence system and client may include one or more additional connections. For example one or more connections may be made between communication interface and communication . These connections may carry any suitable data between client and telepresence system such as user input video data audio data file data or other suitable data.

Login server represents any suitable computing device operable to communicate with telepresence system client or other endpoint. Login server includes processor memory storage and communication interface . Memory includes provisioning profiles and matrix barcode generator logic . Matrix barcode generator logic is operable to receive text and encode the text within a matrix barcode. Provisioning profiles may include any suitable information regarding various users. For example provisioning profiles may include user credentials associated with various users. As another example provisioning profiles may include provisioning characteristics such as customized settings associated with the users. The provisioning characteristics of a particular user may be associated with the user s user credentials or other identifier of the user. Login server may be operable to verify that user credentials received from telepresence system are valid by checking them against user credentials stored in provisioning profiles . Login server may also be operable to provide information from provisioning profiles such as customized settings associated with a particular user to telepresence system . Login server may also be operable to communicate with client to update user credentials or other provisioning characteristics of a user associated with client .

In particular embodiments client may provide user credentials such as a user name and password to login server . As an example login server may provide a web page that client may use to enter these user credentials and to request access to telepresence system . Login server may generate a temporary credential such as a one time password. The temporary credential alone or in combination with other suitable information such as the user s user name and password may be encoded within a matrix barcode by matrix barcode generator logic or sent back to the client which encodes it into a matrix barcode using matrix barcode generator logic . The client may generate an image with this matrix barcode and insert this image into a video stream sent from client to telepresence system . Telepresence system may detect the matrix barcode and communicate with login server to determine whether the matrix barcode includes valid credentials. Upon validation telepresence system may log the client onto the telepresence system or perform other suitable configuration.

Administrator computing system represents a computing system associated with an administrator of at least a portion of system . The administrator computing system may be operable to generate user credentials and transmit the user credentials to client via email server . For example administrator computing system may receive a request for access to one or more telepresence systems . In response to the request administrator computing system may generate one or more user credentials. Administrator computing system may then generate a matrix barcode using matrix barcode generator logic that encodes the user credentials. Administrator computing system then transmits the matrix barcode to client . As an example administrator computing system may email the matrix barcode to client via email server . Email server represents a computing system operable to receive store and transmit email messages on behalf of other computing systems such as client and administrator computing system . As an alternative to generating the matrix barcode administrator computing system may generate the user credentials and transmit the user credentials to client . Client may then use matrix barcode generator logic to encode the credentials within a matrix barcode.

Networks and represents any suitable networks operable to facilitate communication between the components of system such as client telepresence systems login server administrator computing system and email server . Network may include any interconnecting system capable of transmitting audio video signals data messages or any combination of the preceding. Network may include all or a portion of a public switched telephone network PSTN a public or private data network a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a local regional or global communication or computing system network such as the Internet a wireline or wireless network an enterprise intranet or any other suitable communication link including combinations thereof operable to facilitate communication between the components.

The components of a client a telepresence system a login server an administrator computing system and an email server may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation client telepresence system login server administrator computing system and or email server may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate client telepresence system login server administrator computing system and or email server may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment client telepresence system and login server each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and and interfaces and . Although not depicted administrator computing system and or email server may have similar components. Although a particular system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of client telepresence system and login server will be discussed together while referring to the particular component of telepresence system . However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory functionality described herein. Additional examples and functionality provided at least in part by processor will be discussed below.

In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by telepresence system including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation telepresence system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to telepresence system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments communication interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between telepresence systems or other endpoints such as client login server administrator computing system or email server any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments communication interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and telepresence system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of communication interfaces for them. Where appropriate communication interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate.

A computing system may also include one or more buses. A bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of telepresence system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation a bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. A bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . A bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Although certain steps are described above as being performed by certain components in general the steps may be performed by any suitable components. Although illustrates a telepresence systems client login server administrator computing system and email server contemplates any number or arrangement of such components for performing operations related to communicating using matrix barcodes.

At step a matrix barcode is requested. The request may include an indication that particular text should be encoded within a matrix barcode. The request for the matrix barcode may include the text specified at step . Alternatively the request for the matrix barcode may be sent along with a request for the particular text to be encoded in the matrix barcode. For example client may request a matrix barcode with encoded user credentials from another endpoint such as administrator computing system or login server . As another example a user of client may click on a hyperlink that may include a phone number or URI and a request for a matrix barcode that encodes the phone number or URI and optionally an instruction to dial the phone number or access the URI may be generated.

Client may request a matrix barcode from any suitable entity. For example client may request the matrix barcode from matrix barcode generator logic of client . As another example client may request the matrix barcode from administrator computing system or login server . These entities may utilize their respective matrix barcode generator logic or to fulfill the request.

A matrix barcode may be a one or two dimensional matrix consisting of cells or modules of different colors e.g. black and white arranged in a particular pattern. For example the cells may be arranged in a square or rectangular pattern. The matrix barcode may encode one or more bytes of data such as text. In particular embodiments the matrix barcode is a Quick Response QR code a Data Matrix code a Universal Product Code UPC or other suitable barcode. In particular embodiments the matrix barcode may encode any one or more characters from the American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII character set. In particular embodiments each cell of at least some of the cells of the matrix barcode represents at least a bit of encoded data. The matrix barcode may use any suitable geometry for the cells such as lines squares rectangles or other shapes.

An example matrix barcode is shown in . This particular matrix barcode is a QR code that encodes the text username johndoe password abc123. As depicted the encoded text is represented by a collection of black and white squares placed within a square pattern.

At step client receives the matrix barcode with the encoded text. Client may receive the matrix barcode from any suitable entity. For example client may receive the matrix barcode from matrix barcode generator logic of client administrator computing system or login server . The matrix barcode may be received in any suitable manner. For example the matrix barcode may be provided to client in a file e.g. an image file an email or a webpage.

At step a video output port of client is coupled to a video input port of telepresence system . The video output port may be part of video interface and may be configured to transmit video signals across a cable coupled to the video output port. As an example the video output port of client may include a VGA DVI or HDMI connector. The video output port of client could also be a communication interface such as communication interface that wirelessly transmits a video stream or image from client to telepresence system

At step the video output port of client is configured to transmit a video stream associated with client . The video stream of client may be generated by processor video interface and or other suitable components of client . The video stream may include a series of images. For example the video stream may be the video stream that is displayed by display of client during normal operation of client . As another example a video stream that is different from that shown by display may be transmitted through the video output port to telepresence system . In particular embodiments the contents of the video stream is determined by an operating system running on client . Configuring the video output port of client to transmit the video stream may include enabling a video output. For example an operating system of client may initiate a presentation mode or may mirror the video stream shown on display to an external device through the video output port.

At step an image of the matrix barcode received at step is inserted into the video stream and transmitted to telepresence system . As an example if the video stream transmitted to the endpoint is the same video stream displayed by display or a video output of client is viewable on display of telepresence system the user of client may open a file email webpage or other module that includes an image of the matrix barcode. This image will then be included in the video stream transmitted to telepresence system . As another example if client generates a video stream for display by display and a distinct video stream that is transmitted to telepresence a program of client may insert an image of the matrix barcode into the video stream transmitted to the telepresence system . The image of the matrix barcode may be present in the video stream e.g. displayed for any suitable amount of time. In general the image should be present long enough for the telepresence system to capture the image for analysis. The analysis performed on the image is explained in further detail in connection with .

As an alternative to steps and the matrix barcode may be displayed by display of client . The display may be placed within a line of sight of a camera of telepresence system . The camera may capture an image of the matrix barcode and process the image.

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. For example step may be performed before step . Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

At step it is determined whether a video signal is being transmitted by the video cable. If there is no video signal transmitted by the video cable then the method may return to step and again check the video cable for a video signal. In particular embodiments telepresence system may wait a suitable amount of time before checking the video cable for the video signal in order to conserve power and computing resources. Upon detecting a video signal the method moves to step .

At step an image of the video stream received from client is captured. For example a screen shot or frame of the video stream may be obtained. This image may have any suitable format and file extension such as .bmp .jpeg .tiff .png or .gif. For example the image may be a bitmap.

As an alternative to steps and a camera of telepresence system may capture an image displayed by display of client . For example the camera may take a still photo of display or may capture a video stream of display and then obtain a screen shot or frame of the video stream to generate the image.

At step the image is processed to determine whether the image includes a matrix barcode. The image may be processed in any suitable manner. For example the image may be sent to an analyzer that processes the image to determine if at least a portion of the image comprises a matrix barcode. At step it is decided whether the image contains a matrix barcode. If the image does not contain a matrix barcode the method moves to step where the method pauses for a predetermined period of time and then moves back to step in order to capture and analyze another image. If at step it is decided that the image does contain a matrix barcode the method moves to step where the matrix barcode is decoded into text. If the encoding and decoding is accomplished successfully the decoded text will be the same text that client requested to be encoded.

Any suitable method may be used to decode the matrix barcode into text. For example the image with the matrix barcode may be passed to a library that converts the image to text. As an example and not by way of limitation the library used to convert the matrix barcode into text may utilize the Zebra Crossing open source library. In particular embodiments the image is passed directly to a text conversion tool rather than first being analyzed to determine whether the image contains a matrix barcode. If the image does not contain a matrix barcode then the text conversion tool may indicate that it could not convert the image into text or may provide invalid text.

At step an instruction associated with the text is identified. As an example the text itself may specify an instruction. As another example telepresence system may infer an instruction based on the decoded text. For example if the decoded text includes user credentials telepresence system may infer that a login instruction that logs client into telepresence system should be performed. Similarly if the decoded text is a telephone number or a URI telepresence system may infer that the telephone number should be dialed or the URI accessed.

At step telepresence system asks a user associated with client whether to perform the instruction associated with the text. Telepresence system may prompt the user in any suitable manner. For example telepresence system may display the instruction on display along with a request that the user indicate whether the instruction should be performed. The user may provide feedback to telepresence system via any suitable manner such as communication interface or communication interface . As another example telepresence system may transmit the prompt to client to display or otherwise communicate the request to the user. At step telepresence system receives an indication from the user of whether to perform the instruction and acts in accordance with the instruction. For example if the user indicates the instruction is not to be performed telepresence system may go back to step to capture and analyze new images at predetermined intervals. As an alternative to steps and telepresence system may omit requesting user confirmation and may perform the instruction upon identification of the instruction at step .

Particular embodiments may repeat the steps of the method of where appropriate. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Furthermore although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In particular embodiments telepresence system is configured to capture and analyze images for matrix barcodes while it is not engaged in a communication session with other telepresence systems but may stop capturing and analyzing during such communication sessions. In other embodiments telepresence system may only capture and analyze images for matrix barcodes when a client is not logged into telepresence system . In yet other embodiments telepresence system may continually capture and analyze images regardless of the mode of telepresence system

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to the systems apparatuses and methods disclosed herein without departing from the scope of the invention. The components of the systems may be integrated or separated. Moreover the operations of the systems may be performed by more fewer or other components. Additionally operations of the systems may be performed using any suitable logic comprising software hardware and or other logic. The methods may include more fewer or other steps. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order.

Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments alterations and permutations of the embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the above description of the embodiments does not constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure as defined by the following claims.

