---

title: Phycotoxins and uses thereof
abstract: Pharmaceutical compositions for interfering with neuronal transmission comprising an effective amount of at least one tricyclic 3,4-propinoperhydropurine and at least one additional compound are disclosed. Preparations for topical applications are provided that comprise an effective amount of the composition of the invention and a pharmacologically acceptable carrier. Methods of interfering with neuronal transmission comprising topical application of an effective amount of the at least one tricyclic 3,4-propinoperhydropurine are provided for treatment of a variety of indications that relate to muscle relaxation, anesthesia, muscle spasms and similar causes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08623886&OS=08623886&RS=08623886
owner: Phytotox Limited
number: 08623886
owner_city: Hamilton
owner_country: BM
publication_date: 20120619
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 11 568 752 filed Nov. 6 2006 now abandoned which is a national stage application of PCT US05 15946 filed May 6 2005 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 569 383 and 60 569 380 both filed May 7 2004.

This invention relates to methods of treating muscle disorders and to pharmaceutical compositions containing heterocyclic guanidine type compounds which can be used in the methods as well as for other purposes.

Paralytic shellfish poisoning PSP results from a mixture of phycotoxins that bind reversibly to a receptor site on the voltage gated sodium channel found in excitable cells. The primary clinical symptom is an acute paralytic illness. Phycotoxins or algal toxins are produced by microscopic planktonic algae. These toxins accumulate on filter feeders such as bivalves. Consumption of phycotoxin contaminated shellfish results in six diseases in humans PSP amnesic shellfish poisoning ASP Diarrheic shellfish poisoning DSP neurotoxic shellfish poisoning NSP ciguatera poisoning CP and cyanobacterial poisoning CNP .

The phycotoxins that produce PSP have a common structure of 3 4 6 trialquil tetrahydropurine. Twenty six naturally occurring PSP have been described. These phycotoxins are non protein low molecular weight compounds of between 289 and 450 daltons.

The gonyautoxins GTXs are the most abundant PSP toxins found in shellfish extract accounting for over 80 of the total toxin content. The high toxicity of the PSP toxins is due to the reversible binding to a receptor site on the voltage gated sodium channel on excitable cells thus blocking the influx of sodium ions and preventing nerve and muscle cells from producing action potentials thereby blocking neuronal transmission and causing death in mammals via respiratory arrest and cardiovascular shock. Application of small amounts of PSP toxin produces a flaccid paralysis of striated muscle for periods that are dose dependant.

The gonyautoxins of the present invention provide a local anesthetic for use in mammals either by injecting a liquid preparation or as a topical anesthetic applied to the skin of mammal.

The gonyautoxins of the present invention also provide surprising beneficial results in the treatment of a variety of ailments which may be caused or aggravated by muscle disorders muscle spasms or muscle action.

There remains a need for a fast acting and long lasting topical anesthetic which does not damage the skin or result in rashes irritations sensitization or other discomforts. There also remains a need for more effective less invasive treatments for a variety of ailments.

In a first aspect of the invention methods of treating various ailments comprising the step of administering an effective amount of the pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more gonyautoxins are provided. In the methods muscle relaxation and or anesthetization is employed for the purpose of providing a beneficial treatment of a variety of ailments which may related to muscle disorders muscle spasms or may be caused or aggravated by muscle action.

In another aspect of the invention pharmaceutical compositions for interfering with neuronal transmission comprising an effective amount of at least one tricyclic 3 4 propinoperhydropurine and at least one other active ingredient are provided.

In another aspect of the invention preparations for facial rejuvenation are provided that comprise an effective amount of the composition of the invention and a facial cream.

As used herein an effective amount is that amount sufficient to interfere with neuronal transmission by blocking at least some of the presynaptic release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the neuromuscular plate thus interfering with transmission paralyzing the muscle and preventing it from contracting or producing a relaxation of contracted muscles.

Amounts are given in units of activity. One unit of activity corresponds to an amount of the composition of the invention necessary to block the muscular contractions of the crural biceps of a 20 gram CF1 albino or a BALB C strain mouse leg for 1.5 to 2.0 hours. The toxin is intramuscularly injected in the crural biceps of the mouse right leg in a volume of 0.5 ml. The left leg is used as a control.

In order to measure the amount of toxin used in each dose High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC analysis can be performed with on line fluorescence detection HPLC FLD . This method allows the measurement of the mass of each toxin in any mixture extract or pharmaceutical formulation.

It must be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a pharmacologically active agent includes a mixture of two or more active agents reference to an enhancer includes mixtures of two or more enhancers and the like.

In describing and claiming the present invention the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.

The terms treating and treatment as used herein refer to reduction in severity and or frequency of symptoms elimination of symptoms and or underlying cause prevention of the occurrence of symptoms and or their underlying cause and improvement or remediation of damage. The present method of treating a mammal as the term is used herein thus encompasses both prevention of a disorder in a predisposed individual and treatment of the disorder in a clinically symptomatic individual.

The terms active agent drug and pharmacologically active agent are used interchangeably herein to refer to a chemical material or compound that induces a desired effect and include agents that are therapeutically effective prophylactically effective or cosmetically effective. Also included are derivatives and analogs of those compounds or classes of compounds specifically mentioned which also induce the desired effect.

 By therapeutically effective amount is meant a nontoxic but sufficient amount of an active agent to provide the desired therapeutic effect.

By transdermal drug delivery is meant administration of a drug to the skin surface of an individual so that the drug passes through the skin tissue and into the individual s blood stream thereby producing a systemic effect. The term transdermal is intended to include transmucosal drug administration i.e. administration of a drug to the mucosal e.g. sublingual buccal vaginal rectal surface of an individual so that the drug passes through the mucosal tissue and into the individual s blood stream.

The term topical administration is used in its conventional sense to mean delivery of a topical drug of a pharmacologically active agent to the skin or mucosa as in for example the treatment of various skin disorders. Topical drug administration in contrast to transdermal administration provides a local rather than a systemic effect. Unless otherwise stated or implied the teams topical drug administration and transdermal drug administration are used interchangeably.

By predetermined area of skin or mucosal tissue which refers to the area of skin or mucosal tissue through which an active agent is delivered and is intended to define an area of intact unbroken living skin or mucosal tissue. That area will usually be in the range of about 5 cmto about 200 cm more usually in the range of about 5 cmto about 100 cm preferably in the range of about 20 cmto about 60 cm. However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art of drug delivery that the area of skin or mucosal tissue through which the drug is administered may vary significantly depending on factors such as the desired treatment whether a delivery device is used dose and the size of the treatment area and other factors.

 Penetration enhancement or permeation enhancement as used herein refers to an increase in the rate at which the active agent permeates through the skin or mucosal membrane relative to penetration of the same active agent when applied alone i.e. the flux of the agent through the body surface . The enhanced permeation effected through the use of such enhancers can be observed by measuring the rate of diffusion of drug through animal or human skin using for example a Franz diffusion apparatus as known in the art.

An effective amount of a permeation enhancer refers to a non toxic amount or quantity of the enhancer or penetration enhancing treatment which is sufficient to provide the desired increase in penetration rate. Permeation enhancers may also influence the depth of penetration rate of administration and amount of drug delivered.

 Carriers or vehicles as used herein refer to carrier materials suitable for transdermal or topical drug administration. Carriers and vehicles useful herein include any such materials known in the art which is non toxic in the amounts used and does not interact with other components of the composition in a deleterious manner.

The term aqueous refers to a formulation or drug delivery system that contains water or that becomes water containing following application to the skin or mucosal tissue.

It has been surprisingly found that certain methods of the present invention not only provide practically immediate anesthetic and muscle relaxant effects but also provide beneficial muscle relaxation effects over an unexpectedly long period. As a result certain methods of the present invention are particularly well suited to treatment of neuromuscular disorders associated with spastic muscles sympathetic neuronal disorders such as hyper active sweat glands to reduce inflammation or pain due to inflammation to treat blepharospasm anal fissure and achalasia strabismus focal dystonia hyperhydrosis urologic disorders by for example urinary bladder relaxation muscular spasm related pain management muscular spasms wound treatment including wound suturing and stapling shave biopsy facial wrinkle reduction or removal carpal tunnel syndrome fibromyalgia joint flare joint pain post operative pain management arthritis sciatica tendonitis neck pain or neck injury back pain hemifacial spasm hyperfunctional larynx juvenile cerebral palsy spasticity headaches including migraine headaches writers cramp miofacial pain tremors tics bruxism temporomandibular joint pain cervical dystonia oramandibular dystonia dental anesthesia treatment of dental pain hair growth gastrointestinal disorders hyperfunctional facial lines cosmetic disorders shoulder pain rotator cuff injuries peripheral nerve dysfunction migraine or tension headaches disorders of the upper and lower esophageal sphincter gastroparesis hypertrophic pyloric stenosis hemorrhoids proctalgia fugax irritable bowel syndrome muscular spasms vasospastic disorders disorders involving uterine or bladder spasm sphincter of Oddi dysfunction and short segment Hirschprung s strokes and problems with motor control as well as reducing or eliminating the pain associated with injections painful injections and I.V. needle insertions. The unexpected longer term muscle relaxation effects of the GTX compounds have been found to facilitate the healing process.

The phycotoxins employed in the methods and compositions of the present invention are non protein low molecular weight compounds of between 289 and 450 daltons. This provides several advantages over prior art compositions used for similar purposes. First since the phycotoxins are non protein the likelihood of allergic reactions to the phycotoxins is very low. Second the small size of the phycotoxins makes them excellent candidates for transdermal delivery. Also the phycotoxins of the present invention are very potent relative to for example Botulin A toxin and thus smaller amounts can be used to achieve longer lasting effects. In addition the phycotoxins of the present invention often realize their effects in a shorter time period in comparison to Botulin A toxin. Also the small size of the phycotoxins allows them to be passed out of the body relatively quickly thereby reducing the risk of harmful side effects or toxin buildup in the body.

The compositions used in the methods of the present invention comprise an effective amount of at least one phycotoxin. More preferably the compositions of the invention comprise an effective amount of at least one compound represented by formula I set forth below 

Preferred tricyclic 3 4 propinoperhydropurines in accordance with the present invention are the gonyautoxins hereinafter GTX of the formula I as set forth in the table below.

The methods and formulations of the invention can be administered by injection topical or transdermal administration of phycotoxin to treat any condition disease or disorder that is responsive to administration of phycotoxin. Typically the formulations and delivery systems of the invention are used to administer a phycotoxin as an anesthetic agent i.e. for pain relief to relax muscles and or decrease muscle contractions. Most commonly the compounds are used as a muscle relaxant or to decrease muscle contractions.

Each dose may include from 1 to about 5000 units of activity of phycotoxins. More preferably each dose includes more than 32 units of activity up to a maximum of about 5000 units of activity of phycotoxins. Even more preferably each dose includes more than 32 to about 1000 units of activity of phycotoxins more preferably from more than 40 to 15 about 1000 units of activity of phycotoxins and even more preferably from about 50 to about 500 units of activity of phycotoxins. Most preferably each dose includes about 75 to about 200 units of activity of phycotoxins. Doses may be repeated from time to time as needed to continue muscle relaxation until the desired effect is obtained.

According one method of the present invention animals or humans are treated by direct local injection of a composition of the invention into a muscle or in the vicinity of a muscle. In some embodiments the muscle at the location of injection exhibits elevated tone or spasms though this is not necessary for the effectiveness of all treatments. Each injection may be limited to not more than two milliliters of composition including solvents adjuvants and or carrier materials. Administration may be accomplished for example using a one milliliter tuberculin type disposable syringe with a twenty seven to thirty gauge needle. Alternatively for certain methods it may be desirable to administer the dosage using an endoscope such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 205 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of providing details of an endoscope suitable for use in the method of the present invention. In one embodiment an injectable solution of a mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 optionally containing one or both of GTX 1 and GTX 4 in 0.9 sodium chloride solution is employed. The injectable solution may have any suitable concentration but preferably contains more than 40 up to about 1000 units per milliliter. In one embodiment the ratio of GTX 2 to GTX 3 in the injectable solution is about 2 1.

Alternatively the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be applied locally in the form of a topical preparation. To form a topical preparation an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is added to a pharmacologically acceptable topical carrier. The composition when applied topically may be in any form suitable for application to the body surface and may comprise for example a cream lotion solution gel ointment paste or the like and or may be prepared so as to contain liposomes micelles and or microspheres. The topical preparation may include from about 0.0001 to about 0.01 by weight of the GTX compounds based on the weight of the preparation. Alternatively the topical preparation may include from about 0.001 to about 0.01 by weight of the GTX compounds based on the weight of the preparation.

In the methods of the invention the pharmaceutical composition may be directly applied to the body surface or may involve use of a drug delivery device. Thus a formulation or drug reservoir may be aqueous i.e. contain water or may be nonaqueous and used in combination with an occlusive overlayer so that moisture evaporating from the body surface is maintained within the formulation or transdermal system during drug administration. In some cases however e.g. with an occlusive gel a non aqueous formulation may be used with or without an occlusive layer.

It has been found for example that in pain relief applications such as treatment of tension headache and fibromyalgia an administration of one dose provides effects that last for at least four weeks and sometimes significantly longer. It was not expected that administration of GTX toxins could provide such long periods of relief In addition it has been found that the administration of GTX toxins can treat indications that are resistant to other toxins such as Botulinum A toxin. This is also an unexpected advantage of the GTX toxins.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that in the methods of the present invention the phycotoxin or combination of phycotoxins may be administered with or without additional compound s and if administered with additional compound s the phycotoxins may be administered before during or after the administration of the additional compound s . Additionally the administration means for the phycotoxin and additional compound s may also be different for example the phycotoxin may be administered by transdermal application prior to administration of a painful injection.

Another aspect of the invention relates to compositions comprising certain phycotoxins in combination with at least one other compound. Such compositions are suitable for a variety of applications and can for example be used for many cosmetic and clinical applications to potentially avoid surgery potentially reduce side effects and to minimize allergies immune rejection or hematoma. It has also been found that certain phycotoxins can be used in cosmetic and therapeutic methods with advantageous results particularly when muscle disorders muscle spasms or muscle action is a cause or contributing factor to the condition at issue.

The compositions of the invention comprise an effective amount of at least one phycotoxin. More preferably the compositions of the invention comprise an effective amount of at least one compound represented by formula I set forth below 

Preferred tricyclic 3 4 propinoperhydropurines in accordance with the present invention are the gonyautoxins hereinafter GTX of the formula I as set forth in the table below.

In one aspect of the invention the pharmaceutical compositions comprise at least one phycotoxin in combination with at least one additional compound. In a more preferred aspect the compositions of the present invention include at least one GTX compound selected from GTX 1 GTX 2 GTX 3 GTX 4 and GTX 5 at least one local anesthetic selected from betacaine LA tetracaine mepivacaine prilocalne etidocaine bupivacaine lidocaine morphine TAC tetracaine adrenaline epinephrine and cocaine LET lidocaine epinephrine and tetracaine topicaine morphine or similar local anesthetics and combinations thereof and a pharmacologically acceptable carrier. Any pharmacologically acceptable carrier may be used including but not limited to water. The compounds of the invention are generally diluted in a solution of acetic acid or 0.09 sodium chloride.

Table 2 is summarizes some topical anesthetics that are particularly well suited for use in the present invention.

ELA Max and ELA Max 5 contain a liposomal delivery system of 4 or 5 lidocaine. This delivery system has multilamellar vesicles containing several lipid bilayers dispersed in an aqueous medium. Liposomes facilitate the entry of the anesthetic into the skin and can also provide a sustained release.

S caine patch is a delivery system that utilizes an oxygen activated heating system to increase the rate of anesthetic delivery. This patch may be used in the method of the present invention or the phycotoxin composition of the present invention may be formulated in such a patch. The commercially available S caine patch contains a 1 1 eutectic mixture of lidocaine and tetracaine with a disposable heating element that generates a controlled level of heat 39 41 C for two hours. The S patch is effective in reducing the pain associated with shave biopsies and venipuncture. A related topical is the S caine local anesthetic peel. The peel is a cream that dries into a flexible membrane that is readily removed. It is most effective on contoured regions of the body such as the face.

As can be seen from Table 2 these typical applications generally require the application of the topical formulation at least 30 minutes prior the beginning of any procedure. The addition of the phycotoxins greatly reduces the waiting period by providing a substantially immediate benefit in addition to the later benefit provided by the anesthetic compound.

In another aspect of the invention the compositions of the present invention include at least one GTX compound in combination with one or more compounds such as analgesics nonsteroidal anti inflammatories NSAIDS antibiotics including amebicides broad and medium spectrum fungal medications monobactams and viral agents central nervous system drugs minerals immunomodulators immunosuppressives thyroid preparations steroids and hormones restalin Restylane and other painful injections such as allergy medication injections and vitamins selected from water soluble vitamins such as B complex vitamin C vitamin B12 and folic acid and veterinary formulations.

In a more preferred aspect of the invention analgesics include acetaminophen ibuprofen tluriprofen ketoprofen voltaren U.S. Pat. No. 3 652 762 phenacetin and salicylamide. NSAIDS include naproxen acetaminophen ibuprofen flurbiprofen ketoprofen phenacetin salicylamide and indomethacin. Antibiotics include amebicides broad and medium spectrum fungal medications allergy medications monobactams and viral agents and specifically including materials such as erythromycin penicillin and cephalosporins and their derivatives central nervous system drugs such as thioridazine diazepam meclizine ergoloid mesylates chlorpromazine carbidopa and levodopa. Metal salts include potassium chloride and lithium carbonate. Minerals include iron chromium molybdenum and potassium. Thyroid preparations include synthetic thyroid hormone and thyroxine sodium. Steroids and hormones include ACTH anabolics androgen and estrogen combinations androgens corticoids and analgesics estrogens glucocorticoid gonadotropin gonadotropin releasing human growth hormone hypocalcemic menotropins parathyroid progesterone progestogen progestogen and estrogen combinations somatostatis like compounds urofollitropin vasopressin and others Vitamins include water soluble vitamins such as B complex vitamin C vitamin B12 and folic acid and veterinary formulations. It should be understood by those of skill in the art that subject to the conditions set forth with respect to the formula I above other mixtures and combinations of tricyclic 3 4 propinoperhydropurines with the compounds described above are within the scope of this invention.

Restalin or RESTYLANE is a crystal clear biodegradable NASHA Non Animal Stabilized Hyaluronic Acid gel which is injected into the skin in order to add volume to lips and lift up wrinkles and folds. Restalin is considered to be safer than collagen injections for example to make the lips appear fuller. The FDA has recently approved Restylane as an injection for the correction of moderate to severe facial wrinkles and folds such as nasolabial folds the lines between the nose and mouth. However such injections tend to be painful because they are often injected into areas containing many nerve endings. The current compositions help to reduce the pain of injection.

Similarly venipuncture and the placement of an I.V. needle can be painful as well. Due to the rapid and safe action of the current composition the waiting period between when the composition is applied and the effective numbing is greatly reduced.

Alternatively the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention comprise at least one compound selected from the group consisting of saxitoxin STX neosaxitoxin decarbamoylsaxitoxin and Botulin A toxin along with at least one GTX compound and optionally two or more GTX compounds as well as at least one other compound.

The present invention includes the use of toxins obtained or processed by bacterial culturing toxin extraction concentration preservation freeze drying and or reconstitution as well as modified or recombinant toxins and derivatives or fragments of toxins made by recombination.

Without being bound by theory when applied locally these compounds appear to carry out their antispasmodic action by blocking the spreading of nervous impulse or neuronal transmission by reversibly binding to the sole biological molecular receptor i.e. the voltage gated sodium channel present in all neurons and excitable cells. By binding to this channel there is no entry of sodium to the neuronal cell depolarization does not occur and therefore propagation of the impulse is stopped. This action mechanism blocks the presynaptic release of at least some of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the neuromuscular plate thus interfering with neuromuscular transmission paralyzing the muscle and preventing it from contracting or producing a relaxation of muscles contracted by pathological problems. This mechanism is particularly efficient for cosmetic purposes as it does not let some facial muscles contract all of them associated with and responsible for the formation of wrinkles thus producing the sought after effect of facial rejuvenation.

The concentration of the active agent in the formulation can vary a great deal and will depend on a variety of factors including the condition to be treated the desired effect the ability and speed of the active agent to reach its intended target and other factors within the particular knowledge of the patient and physician. Preferred formulations will typically contain a sufficient amount of the active agent to deliver a dose on the order of about 1 1000 units of the active agent to the treatment site. More preferably the delivered dose is about 20 500 units of the active agent. Even more preferably the delivered dose is more than 32 units up to about 1000 units of the active agent and most preferably the delivered dose is more than 40 units up to about 1000 units of the active agent about 50 1000 units of the active agent about 50 500 units of the active agent or about 75 200 units of the active agent.

The pharmaceutical preparations of the invention are administered around the muscle or neuron that is to be paralyzed or prevented from contracting. This invention is not limited to specific drug delivery systems device structures enhancers or carriers as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

The present invention also relates to a composition for application by injection. The composition may be in any form suitable for injection. The composition of the present invention will comprise at least one phycotoxin at least one additional compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In a more preferred aspect the composition of the present invention will comprise two or more phycotoxins along with at least one additional compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The application by injection should be in amounts of no more than two milliliters in different places around the muscle particularly around the areas of greatest innervations. When injected the effect is substantially immediate.

The transdermal effect of the compositions and methods of the invention is immediately apparent generally occurring within a maximum of 30 seconds to five minutes after penetration of the active compound through the skin. The maximum effect is generally achieved within 15 minutes of penetration of the active compound through the skin. Its effective duration depends on the dose administered the muscle in question as well as the volume and specific composition administered. This is the pattern for all clinical applications and pathologies.

The topical or transdermal composition may be in any form suitable for application to the body surface and may comprise for example a cream lotion solution gel ointment paste or the like and or may be prepared so as to contain liposomes micelles and or microspheres. The composition may be directly applied to the body surface or may involve use of a drug delivery device. Thus a formulation or drug reservoir may be aqueous i.e. contain water or may be nonaqueous and used in combination with an occlusive overlayer so that moisture evaporating from the body surface is maintained within the formulation or transdermal system during drug administration. In some cases however e.g. with an occlusive gel a nonaqueous formulation may be used with or without an occlusive layer.

Ointments are semisolid preparations that are typically based on petrolatum or other petroleum derivatives. The specific ointment base to be used as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art is one that will provide for optimum drug delivery and preferably will provide for other desired characteristics as well e.g. emolliency or the like. As with other carriers or vehicles an ointment base should be inert stable nonirritating and nonsensitizing. As explained in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 19Ed. Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Co. 1995 at pages 1399 1404 ointment bases may be grouped in four classes oleaginous bases emulsifiable bases emulsion bases and water soluble bases. Oleaginous ointment bases include for example vegetable oils fats obtained from animals and semisolid hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. Emulsifiable ointment bases also known as absorbent ointment bases contain little or no water and include for example hydroxystearin sulfate anhydrous lanolin and hydrophilic petrolatum. Emulsion ointment bases are either water in oil W O emulsions or oil in water O W emulsions and include for example cetyl alcohol glyceryl monostearate lanolin and stearic acid. Preferred water soluble ointment bases are prepared from polyethylene glycols of varying molecular weight again see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy for further information.

Creams are viscous liquids or semisolid emulsions either oil in water or water in oil. Cream bases are water washable and contain an oil phase an emulsifier and an aqueous phase. The oil phase also called the internal phase is generally comprised of petrolatum and a fatty alcohol such as cetyl or stearyl alcohol. The aqueous phase usually although not necessarily exceeds the oil phase in volume and generally contains a humectant. The emulsifier in a cream formulation is generally a nonionic anionic cationic or amphoteric surfactant.

Gels are semisolid suspension type systems. Single phase gels contain organic macromolecules distributed substantially uniformly throughout the carrier liquid which is typically aqueous but also preferably contain an alcohol and optionally an oil. Preferred organic macromolecules i.e. gelling agents are crosslinked acrylic acid polymers such as the carbomer family of polymers e.g. carboxypoiyalkylenes that may be obtained commercially under the Carbopol trademark. Also preferred are hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene oxides polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers and polyvinylalcohol cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate and methyl cellulose gums such as tragacanth and xanthan gum sodium alginate and gelatin. In order to prepare a uniform gel dispersing agents such as alcohol or glycerin can be added or the gelling agent can be dispersed by trituration mechanical mixing or stirring or combinations thereof.

Lotions are preparations to be applied to the skin surface without friction and are typically liquid or semiliquid preparations in which solid particles including the active agent are present in a water or alcohol base. Lotions are usually suspensions of solids and preferably for the present purpose comprise a liquid oily emulsion of the oil in water type. Lotions are preferred formulations herein for treating large body areas because of the ease of applying a more fluid composition. It is generally necessary that the insoluble matter in a lotion be finely divided. Lotions will typically contain suspending agents to produce better dispersions as well as compounds useful for localizing and holding the active agent in contact with the skin e.g. methylcellulose sodium carboxymethyl cellulose or the like.

Pastes are semisolid dosage forms in which the active agent is suspended in a suitable base. Depending on the nature of the base pastes are divided between fatty pastes or those made from a single phase aqueous gels. The base in a fatty paste is generally petrolatum or hydrophilic petrolatum or the like. The pastes made from single phase aqueous gels generally incorporate carboxymethylcellulose or the like as a base.

Formulations may also be prepared with liposomes micelles and microspheres. Liposomes are microscopic vesicles having a lipid wall comprising a lipid bilayer and can be used as drug delivery systems herein as well. Liposome preparations for use in the instant invention include cationic positively charged anionic negatively charged and neutral preparations. Cationic liposomes are readily available. For example N 1 2 3 dioleyloxy propyl N N N triethylammonium DOTMA liposomes are available under the tradename Lipofectin . GEBCO BRL Grand Island N.Y. . Similarly anionic and natural liposomes are readily available as well e.g. from Avanti Polar Lipids Birmingham Ala. or can be easily prepared using readily available materials. Such materials include phosphatidyl choline cholesterol phosphatidyl ethanolamine dioleoylphosphatidyl choline DOPC dioleoylphosphatidyl glycerol DOPG dioleoylphoshatidyl ethanolamine DOPE among others. These materials can also be mixed with DOTMA in appropriate ratios. Methods for making liposomes using these materials are well known in the art.

Micelles are known in the art as comprised of surfactant molecules arranged so that their polar headgroups form an outer spherical shell while the hydrophobic hydrocarbon chains are oriented towards the center of the sphere forming a core. Micelles form in an aqueous solution containing surfactant at a high enough concentration so that micelles naturally result. Surfactants useful for forming micelles include but are not limited to potassium laurate sodium octane sulfonate sodium decane sulfonate sodium dodecane sulfonate sodium lauryl sulfate docusate sodium decyltrimethylammonium bromide dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide tetradecyltrimethylammonium bromide tetradecyltrimethylammonium chloride dodecylammonium chloride polyoxyl 8 dodecyl ether polyoxyl 12 dodecyl ether nonoxynol 10 and nonoxynol 30. Micelle formulations can be used in conjunction with the present invention either by incorporation into the reservoir of a topical or transdermal delivery system or into a formulation to be applied to the body surface.

Microspheres similarly may be incorporated into the present formulations and drug delivery systems. Like liposomes and micelles microspheres essentially encapsulate a drug or drug containing formulation. They are generally although not necessarily formed from lipids preferably charged lipids such as phospholipids. Preparation of lipidic microspheres is well known in the art and described in the pertinent texts and literature.

Various additives known to those skilled in the art may be included in the compositions. For example solvents including relatively small amounts of alcohol may be used to facilitate solubilization of the active agent. Other optional additives include opacifiers antioxidants fragrance colorant gelling agents thickening agents stabilizers and the like. Other agents may also be added such as antimicrobial agents to prevent spoilage upon storage i.e. to inhibit growth of microbes such as yeasts and molds. Suitable antimicrobial agents are typically selected from the group consisting of the methyl and propyl esters of p hydroxybenzoic acid i.e. methyl and propyl paraben sodium benzoate sorbic acid imidurea and combinations thereof.

The transdermal compositions of the invention may be administered to a predetermined area of the patient s body surface in combination with a permeation enhancer and or a permeation enhancing treatment. One class of suitable permeation enhancers are chemical permeation enhancers such as a hydroxide releasing agent in an amount effective to enhance the flux of the agent through the body surface without causing damage thereto or in combination with an ultrasound treatment. Other suitable chemical permeation enhancers are described in for example W. R. Pfister and D. S. T. Hsieh Permeation Enhancers Compatible with Transdermal Drug Delivery Systems Part I Selection and Formulation Considerations . September 1990 and W. R. Pfister and D. S. T. Hsieh Permeation Enhancers Compatible with Transdermal Drug Delivery Systems Part II System Design Considerations . October 1990 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference to describe suitable chemical permeation enhancers. Exemplary chemical permeation enhancers for use in the present invention include but are not limited to alcohols amines and amides such as urea amino acids amino acid esters Azone pyrrolidones terpenes fatty acids fatty acid esters macrocyclic compounds tensides sulfoxides liposomes transferomes lecithin vesicles ethosomes water anionic cationic and non ionic surfactants polyols and essential oils.

The GTX compounds of the present invention are typically small molecules having relatively low molecular weights are water soluble and have a positive charge associated with the compounds and thus are cationic. Ideally transdermal penetration is carried out using small molecules that are fat soluble and have a neutral charge. Thus in the present case it may be desirable under certain circumstances to employ anionic chemical permeation enhancers and or anionic surfactants to improve the transdermal delivery of the GTX compounds. Also since fat solubility may improve transdermal delivery it may be desirable to chemically modify the GTX compounds to change their hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB and render them more fat soluble. One example of such a modification might be to add a lipophilic tail to the GTX molecule by for example attaching a long chain fatty molecule to the GTX molecule in any suitable conventional manner.

Thus the present method of transdermally delivering the active agent may vary but necessarily involves application of a composition containing a tricyclic 3 4 propinoperhydropurine to a predetermined area of the skin or mucosal tissue for a period of time sufficient to provide an effective blood level or penetration level of active ingredient s . The method may involve direct application of the composition as an ointment gel cream or the like or may involve use of a drug delivery device as taught in the art e.g. in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 915 950 4 906 463 5 091 186 or 5 246 705 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of describing specific transdermal drug delivery devices or as described below.

In another embodiment of the present invention a physical transdermal permeation enhancement method selected from iontophoresis phonophoresis sono macroporation thermal modulation magnetic modulation and mechanical modulation may be employed either alone or in combination with another physical or chemical permeation enhancer. Examples of most of these methods can be found in for example Drug Permeation Enhancement Theory and Applications D. S. T. Hsieh ed. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. 1994 .

Iontophoresis can deliver the toxin to a subdermal site by passing electrical current across a patch or skin area containing a composition comprising the toxin. In certain embodiments an electrode may be place on the external surface of a transdermal patch or on the skin and a ground electrode is placed elsewhere. Current is applied to cause the toxin to penetrate the skin. The amount of current is typically less than 1 mA cmand preferably 0.3 to 0.7 mA cmare employed. Since the various GTX s have a 1 charge this facilitates penetration into the skin both in comparison to other molecules having a 2 charge for example but also via the application of intophoresis.

Particularly preferred methods of permeation enhancement are phonoporesis and sono macroporation. These methods offer several advantages including bypassing the gastrointestinal degradation and hepatic first pass metabolism encountered in oral administration of medicaments improves patient compliance since it is non invasive may eliminate the need to use chemical permeation enhances which can damage the skin can be used to deliver the active ingredients in ionic or non ionic form works well with both aqueous and non aqueous carriers can deliver the actives to deep subcutaneous tissues and these methods can be used in combination with other transdermal delivery systems such as transdermal patches and or permeation enhancers. Phonoporesis has been used to deliver local anesthetics in for example E. J. Novak . May 231 1964 and H. A. E. Benson J. C. McElnay and R. Harland 44 65 1988 . Suitable conditions for phonoporesis are described in Y. Sun and J. C. Liu Transdermal Drug Delivery by Phonoporesis Basics Mechanisms and Techniques of Application Chapter 15 Drug Permeation Enhancement Theory and Applications D. S. T. Hsieh Ed. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. 1994 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for the purpose of describing suitable phonoporesis conditions.

If phonoporesis is to be employed the composition should contain a suitable coupling agent for transfer of acoustic energy from the surface of the transducer to a patient. Water is a preferred coupling agent since there is only a small difference between the acoustic impedance of water and that of soft tissue. Alternatively commercially available coupling agents such as aqueous thixotropic gels glycerol and mineral oil may be employed.

In carrying out phonoporesis frequencies of from about 10 kHz to about 20 MHz may be employed. More preferably frequencies of from about 1 MHz to about 16 MHz are used. The ultrasound may be continuous or pulsed and the intensity and duration of the treatment can be determined by a person skilled in the art pending on the patient and the desired level of drug delivery required. Typically intensities of less than about 2 W cmare applied in phonoporesis.

Alternatively sono macroporation may be employed. If sono macroporation is employed typically acoustic intensities of more than 2 W cmup to about 40 W cmwill be employed in combination with frequencies of about 10 100 kHz more preferably 20 80 kHz. Sono macroporation is most useful for enhancing the permeation of larger molecules having molecular weights of about 400 600 kDa.

The foregoing compositions and delivery methods can be employed to carry out the various methods of the present invention if desired. Thus any of the described compositions can be employed to treat any of the various ailments muscle disorders or other conditions that are described herein.

In the following examples dose refers to the amount of toxin used during one administration to a patient. A dose may be applied to one or more sites. Treatment refers to the total number of doses given to a patient to achieve the desired effect. 100 units of the mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 determined by mouse assay is equivalent to 25 g of GTX 2 and GTX 3 as determined by HPLC FLD.

One unit of activity corresponds to an amount of the composition of the invention necessary to block the muscular contractions of the crural biceps of a 20 gram CFI albino BALB C strain mouse leg for 1.5 to 2.0 hours. The toxin was intramuscularly injected in the crural biceps of the mouse right leg in a volume of 0.5 ml. The left leg is used as a control. This was done in three mice and the paralyzing effect was tested every 30 minutes for the first two hours and then every 2 4 8 hours and overnight. Depending on the dose injected the paralyzing effect can last 24 hours or longer. This example confirms the reversible nature of the effect of the toxins of the present invention and demonstrates that the duration of the effect can be controlled by varying the dosage of the toxins.

Each dose of toxin contains from 10 to 400 units of activity of a mixture of gonyautoxins GTX2 GTX3 and is intramuscularly infiltrated locally in 2 to 20 muscle points according to the diagram shown in . Each injection point receives 0.1 to 0.2 ml 10 to 20 units of toxin solution which contains 100 units of activity of the mixture of GTX2 GTX3 per milliliter of solution. The carrier is 0.9 sodium chloride in sterile solution without preservatives. This dose may be repeated for example every four weeks as prescribed by the physician or according to the patient s requirements in order to minimize pain.

10 patients have been enrolled in an open label study. The patients need to fulfill specified clinical criteria. Upon evaluation and admission to the study the patients are administered the toxin as described above. Depending on the symptomatology and local painful points of each patient the physician determines the number of infiltration points following the general injection site scheme shown in . All 10 patients reported complete relief of pain starting 20 minutes after each administration. The patients have been followed up for a period of three months after a single administration and only 2 patients had relapsed with painful symptoms at 4 and 8 weeks after the treatment.

Each dose of toxin contains from 10 to 400 units of activity of a mixture of gonyautoxins GTX2 GTX3 and is intramuscularly infiltrated locally in 2 to 10 muscle points according to the diagram shown in . Each injection point receives 0.1 ml 10 units of a toxin solution which contains 100 units of activity of the mixture of GTX2 GTX3 per milliliter of solution. The carrier is 0.9 sodium chloride in a sterile solution without preservatives. This dose may be repeated for example every four weeks as prescribed by the physician or according to the patient s requirements.

20 patients have been enrolled in an open label study. The patients need to fulfill the following clinical criteria they have to be chronic patients that experience primary nonvascular tensional headache at least twice a week and that have been treated previously for this condition with analgesics systemic muscle relaxants local corticosteroid infiltration or antidepressants. Upon evaluation and admission to the study the physician determines the number of injection points for the toxin basically following the general injection site scheme described above in reference to .

Results indicate that all 20 patients reported complete relief of pain starting 20 minutes after the administration. The patients have been followed up for a period of about 3 months after a single administration. To date only 4 of the patients have experienced a relapse of minor pain from tension headache 4 to 6 weeks after treatment.

Each dose of toxin contains from 10 to 400 units of activity of a mixture of gonyautoxins GTX2 GTX3 and is intramuscularly infiltrated locally in the orbital muscles via 2 to 4 injection points. Additional local injection points can be employed in other face muscles as determined by the physician and or according to the severity of the pathology in each patient. Each injection point receives from 0.1 to 0.4 ml 10 to 40 units of activity of toxin solution which contains 100 units of activity of a mixture of GTX2 GTX3 per milliliter of solution. The carrier is 0.9 sodium chloride in a sterile solution without preservatives. This dose may be repeated every 2 4 weeks as prescribed by the physician or according to the patient s requirements.

A few volunteers have been treated for blepharospasm and or hemifacial spasm. Depending on the symptomatology of the patient the physician determines the number of injection points 2 to 20 .

Dissolve all ingredients except for hydroxyethyl cellulose in water and mix to make a clear uniform solution. Disperse the hydroxyethyl cellulose polymer with vortex mixing and continue mixing without vortex until a smooth clear gel forms.

Melt the petrolatum sorbitan sesquioleate and white wax at 60 degrees C. and mix until uniform. Slowly incorporate the aqueous solution of toxin and continue mixing until the ointment congeals.

A cream formulation containing a mixture of GTX2 GTX3 was applied to the forehead glabellar or frown lines and around the eyes crow feet wrinkles of a healthy adult volunteer. After application the area was treated for 30 seconds with a handheld sonicator Beauty Care System Model JS 2000 Annapolis Md. USA to accelerate transdermic absorption. The application of the cream induced reduction of wrinkles that lasted over 24 hours.

Doses of 200 units up to 5 000 units of a mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 as employed in example 2 have been administered by injection in the internal anal sphincter in normal volunteers. These doses were well tolerated without adverse or negative side effects. The volunteers remained healthy during and after the local injection of this relatively large amount of toxins.

Ten healthy male adults between 24 and 48 years old with normal sphincter tone pressure at rest less than 72 mmHG as determined by anorectal manometry were studied. The test subjects had no anorectal pathologies like hemorrhoids fistula or abscesses. Before intervention tests were performed including anorectal manometry electromyography a hemogram a basic metabolic panel and a urinalysis.

A dosage of 100 units of activity of a combination of GTX 2 and GTX 3 in approximately a 2 1 ratio in a total volume of 1.0 ml was locally infiltrated into both sides of the anal internal sphincter 0.5 ml each side with an insulin syringe 25 gauge . The mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 was purified from shellfish collected in the Chilean Patagonia fjord that was found to be highly contaminated with PSP toxins using standard purification methods.

Two minutes post injection an anorectal manometry was performed. Resting and voluntary contraction pressures were measured and recorded and compared to the baseline measurements. Recto anal and cortical anal reflexes were also measured and recorded in each participant before and after toxin injection. The anal canal pressure was recorded by a stationary pull through technique with a water filled micro balloon and external transducer PVB perfusion equipment. Recording and analysis of the tracing were made by a computerized system 8 channels polygraph ID Metronic Polygraph with Polygram 98 ver. 2.2 .

Anal resting pressures were recorded in millimeters of mercury with the stationary pull through technique and the computer identified the mean pressure. The maximal voluntary contraction was assessed by evaluation of the voluntary contractions of the anal sphincter in each participant. Amplitude was expressed in milliliters of mercury.

The participants were evaluated at 24 and 48 hours after one week and after 12 days. Blood and urine samples were collected from each participant a week after the injection for laboratory analysis. Toxin levels in the urine were measured 4 hours after injection. Pulse and blood pressure as well as any side effects and pain scores were recorded at each visit. The injection pain scores and the pain two minutes after the injections were determined by consulting the participants using a 1 10 pain scale with 10 being the maximum value of pain.

Long term outcomes were determined after a median follow up of 12 months via personal communication with the participants and by clinical examination at the request of the participants.

No participant dropped out of the study and none had any adverse or negative side effects. Laboratory tests did not show any significant changes and no toxin was detectable in the urine samples collected 4 hours after injection. Toxin detection was performed by analytical high performance liquid chromatography HPLC with on line fluorescent detection the detection limit of this method is 1 microgram in 10 ml. This also corresponds to the fact that PSP toxins once injected immediately enter the extracellular medium producing a dilution.

Table 1 is a summary of the test results. As shown in Table 1 all participants showed anal sphincter relaxation within 30 seconds after injection as determined by clinical anorectal examination during the injection and then after two minutes using anorectal manometry. The participants all stated that they felt the anal anesthesia for an 15 average time of 59.5 minutes 7.12 minutes mean value Stand. Dev. and sphincter hypotonical sensation for 40.0 4.20 minutes. None of the participants showed flatus incontinence or transitory fecal incontinence.

Table 2 is a summary of the anorectal manometric recordings. Manometric recording showed a significant decrease in the anal maximal voluntary contraction pressure. Two minutes after injection the pressure was 55.2 6.2 mean value standard dev. of the base line values a diminishing of 44.8 . Twenty four hours after injection the drop in the anal maximal voluntary contraction pressure increased to 53 of the baseline value. Fifteen days after injection all of the anal maximal voluntary contractions had returned to the base line values. Electromyography EMG recorded before the injection and after the injection indicated that the injection nearly eliminated muscle activity. At the 12 month follow up examination long term follow up none of the participants showed any adverse or systemic side effects i.e. anorectal problems .

As can be seen from Table 2 complete anal sphincter relaxation after administration of the mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 was achieved in 100 of the participants immediately. This indicates that the injection of these toxins locally produces paresis in the sphincter. This relaxation was confirmed by anal clinical evaluation as performed by coloproctologists during the injection. The injection of the toxin did not produce any long lasting side effects such as flatus or fecal incontinences and the recto anal and cortical anal reflexes remained normal. The toxin level injected blocks extra contraction of the muscle but leaves sufficient strength to provide for normal performance.

The local peripheral application of toxins interferes with neuromuscular transmission altering the action potential which results in a temporarily paralysis of the sphincter. The mode of action of GTX is directed to the injected muscle leaving other muscles in the area unaffected. The paretic effects indicate that local injection of the sphincter lasts for 12 days. As there are no side effects the use of this toxin injected locally is safe and effective particularly for use in the anal sphincter. The immobilization of healing tissue is a fundamental therapeutic principle and treatments using paralytic toxins may be effective in the remission of other muscle related pathologies such as those described above.

Fifty adults between the ages of 18 and 70 with symptomatic anal fissures were evaluated for inclusion in a study to test the effects of GTX local infiltration efficacy in the treatment of anal fissure via the reduction of anal tone to promote the healing process and eliminate the need for surgical intervention as well as provide a safe and effective alternative to ointment treatments.

Patients were evaluated for the following inclusion criteria evidence of anterior posterior or both circumscribed ulcers induration at the edges and posterior of horizontal fibers of the interior anal sphincter with symptoms of post defecatory or permanent pain bleeding or both. Patients with an anal fissure history of two or month duration were considered to be chronic. Table 3 contains a detail of the patients selected for study. Patients younger than 18 or older than 70 years of age were excluded from this study as were those patients that were pregnant or had anal fissure associated with other conditions such as hemorrhoids fistula or anal abscess.

The healing criteria and primary end points of the study were pain relief and fissure epithelization. The participants were fully informed about the action and mechanism of GTX and all included patients supplied their written consent. The study was a randomized double blind trial in which the patients were diagnosed and injected with a mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 or placebo solution of 0.9 sodium chloride. The study was opened for humanitarian and ethical reasons after 15 placebo treated patients showed either no improvement or a worsening of their conditions and patients injected with GTX showed marked improvement after three weeks treatment.

The test dosage consisted of 100 units of activity of a mixture of GTX 2 and GTX 3 in 1.0 ml volume which was locally infiltrated into both sides of the anal fissure in the internal anal sphincter in equal volumes. The injection was accomplished with an insulin needle 25 gauge .

Anal pressures were measured and recorded as described above. Patents were clinically evaluated after 7 14 and 28 days post injection. Pain during injection and two minutes were evaluated by asking the patients to rate their pain on a scale of 1 to 10 with 10 being the maximum pain value. No stool softeners bulk laxatives or sitz baths were prescribed. Long term outcomes where determined at the 12 month follow up examination.

None of the fifty patients enrolled in the study had any adverse or negative side effects during or after the trial. As shown in Table 5 100 of the patients showed immediate post injection anal sphincter relaxation as detected by digital examination and anorectal manometry. During the digital examination coloproctologists detected the anal tone reduction and all the patents declared that they felt anal anesthesia after injection. The seven day post injection examination showed greatly reduced anal tone in all patients. No incontinence was observed and all the patients maintained the recto anal and cortical anal reflexes see Table 4 .

Table 5 demonstrates a significant decrease in the maximum resting pressures MRP in all the patients as indicted by the manometric recordings. The MRP recordings fell from 108.8 24.9 to 61.1 22.8 mmHg Mean value Standard Deviation decreasing 15 to 56.2 12.5 of MRP baseline values. This represents a mean reduction of 43.8 . Similarly maximum voluntary contraction pressure MVCP decreases to 74.3 13.1 of MVCP baseline values a 25.7 mean reduction.

Patients with acute anal fissures stopped bleeding within 48 hours of injection. By the day seven post injection examination these patients showed epithelization of the lesion with modest pain only after defecation. At the day 14 post injection examination the patients all showed totally epithelization with scar formation.

Patients with chronic anal fissures also stopped bleeding within 48 hours. By the day seven post injection digital examination 50 of the patients with chronic anal fissures showed epithelization similar to the acute patients. Nevertheless epithelization was evident by the 14 day post injection examination and epithelization was complete by the 28 day post injection examination in 98 of the patients with chronic anal fissure. All patients were post defecation pain free and asymptomatic.

One patient relapsed 3 months post injection and required surgical intervention. This patient was a 59 year old female with an eight year history of recurrent anal fissures accompanied with periods of intense pain and bleeding which was further complicated with sub fissural infiltration and bleeding tendency. Her anaorectal manometry reading at baseline showed an MRP of 118 mmHg and a MVCP of 171 mmHg. The remaining patients in the study remained asymptomatic and healthy. After a 38 month follow up only two patients had presented a recurrence of the anal fissure requiring a different treatment.

The results indicate that 100 of the patients experienced relaxed anal sphincter immediately after infiltration. Paresis is produced in the internal sphincters and a concurrent reduction of anal tone is provided. Neither flatus or fecal incontinences were observed and all patients maintained functional anal and cortical anal reflexes suggesting that infiltration blocks extra contraction of the muscle but leaves sufficient strength for normal muscle performance. Repeated injections did not produce any problems or side effects. The paretic effect lasts for more than a week. At the 12 month examination no side effects were observed.

Of the fifty patients in the study 3 of the acute and 33 of the chronic patients had been previously conservatively treated with sitz baths stool softeners high fiber diets bowel regulation and topical ointments to no effect not cured . The healing rate of this study was 98 within 28 days for all patients but the 17 acute patients were healed within 15 days. These results show a higher efficacy than other pharmaceutical treatments BoTox nitroglycerine or nifedipine .

This example emphasizes that GTX treatment produces substantially immediate and relatively long lasting muscle relaxation effects which can be beneficially employed to treat a variety of conditions. GTX treatment reduces the chemical denervation induction time period. GTX when given in a 100 units of activity dosage yields a reversible chemical denervation of twelve days duration in contrast to BoTox treatment which produces an irreversible chemical denervation of three months or more duration along with proteolytic structural damage. Muscle inactivation persists until new fibrils grow from the nerve forming new junction plates at new areas on the muscle cell wall.

One unit of activity corresponds to an amount of the composition of the invention necessary to block the muscular contractions of the crural biceps of a 20 gram CF1 albino strain mouse leg for 1.5 to 2.0 hours. The toxin was intramuscularly injected in the crural biceps of the mouse right leg in a volume of 0.5 ml. The left leg is used as a control. This was done in three mice and the paralyzing effect was tested every 30 minutes for the first two hours and then every 2 4 8 hours and overnight. Depending on the dose injected the paralyzing effect can last 24 hours or longer. This example confirms the reversible nature of the effect of the toxins of the present invention and demonstrates that the duration of the effect can be controlled by varying the dosage of the toxins.

Two patients have been treated for palmar hyperhydrosis. Depending on the symptomatology the physician determines the number of injection points for the toxin basically following a general injection scheme in the fingers and palm. Each dose of toxin consists 10 to 400 units of a mixture of GTX 2 GTX 3 locally intramuscularly infiltrated in 2 to 10 muscle points. Each injection point receives 0.1 0.2 ml 10 20 units of a toxin solution which contains 100 units GTX2 GTX3 per ml. The solution is made with 0.9 sodium chloride in a sterile solution without preservatives.

The results show a decrease in the amount of sweating of the palm as measured by determining the weight of a filter paper positioned for 5 minutes under the palm of the hand in the treated hand in comparison to the weight of a similar filter paper in a control hand with no treatment. In addition the effect of the toxin can be measured by visual inspection of both filter papers before and after the injection of the toxin. The treated hand shows significantly less or no moisture released after the administration of the toxin.

The foregoing detailed description of various embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not to be interpreted as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. A skilled person will realize that many modifications and variations can be made within the scope of the present invention.

