---

title: Systems and methods for automatic bill pay enrollment
abstract: A system for bill pay enrollment may comprise at least one subsystem that scans a paper a bill into a digital image, at least one subsystem that recognizes information on the digital image, and at least one subsystem that uses at least some of the recognized information to enroll a payee into a bill pay system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311634&OS=09311634&RS=09311634
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09311634
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120921
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 241 433 filed on Sep. 30 2008 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 241 443 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC BILL PAY ENROLLMENT now abandoned and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 241 454 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC BILL PAY ENROLLMENT now abandoned.

The present patent application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 321 025 entitled Remote Deposit of Checks filed Dec. 29 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Bill pay services offer a service to pay a user s bills automatically each pay period. Traditionally enrolling in a bill pay service involved manually entering or adding payee information for each separate payee. This is often a less than optimal member experience which requires the user to manually enter information off the bill including payee name address phone number account number etc.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In consideration of the above identified shortcomings of the art systems and methods for automatic bill pay enrollment are provided. For several embodiments a system for bill pay enrollment may comprise at least one subsystem that scans a paper bill into a digital image at least one subsystem that recognizes information on the digital image and at least one subsystem that uses at least some of the recognized information to enroll a payee into a bill pay system.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of various embodiments and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice the embodiments.

Referring next to shown is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing device suitable for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods for automatic bill pay enrollment may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the embodiments. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary computing environment . For example a computer game console may also include those items such as those described below for use in conjunction with implementing the processes described below.

Aspects of the embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory a graphics interface a graphics processing unit GPU video memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the embodiments. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the embodiments e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the embodiments in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the embodiments are not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems such as automobiles and airplanes.

Referring next to shown is an exemplary networked computing environment in which many computerized processes may be implemented to perform the processes described below. For example parallel computing may be part of such a networked environment with various clients on the network of using and or implementing automatic bill pay enrollment. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that networks can connect any computer or other client or server device or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with aspects of the embodiments each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the embodiments should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example process for automatic bill pay enrollment. First a user may scan in one or more paper bills received from a payee for example at their home computer or other computing device. The scanning process may also be integrated with a web site interface associated with a bill pay service provider such as a financial institution of the user. For example the image acquiring and user interface component of the scanning process may be handled according to the scanning process digital image processing and technology disclosed in previously filed and commonly assigned patent application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 321 025 entitled Remote Deposit of Checks filed Dec. 29 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Once the image of the one or more bills is acquired optical character recognition OCR or other image processing technology may be used to recognize identifiers on the bill indicating where relevant information is on the bill to enroll the user in a bill pay system. Examples of this information comprise the payee name payee address and account number. Also other information may also be helpful such as the monthly or minimum payment amount due due date etc. This information may be recognized by labels that are commonly used on paper bills such as account number being located to the left or above the account number on the paper bill. To the extent the system cannot recognize needed data from the scanned in paper bill the system may prompt the user for such information during the process.

The recognized information is then used to automatically enroll the payee in the bill pay system. Once the payee is enrolled in the bill pay system the bill pay system will cause the payee to be continued to be paid on a due date chosen by the user. Alternatively a due date may be suggested or automatically used by the bill pay system according to a due date acquired from the scanned paper bill. Also the system may prompt the user at the user s discretion to verify the enrollment information before the payee is enrolled in the bill pay system. For multiple bills a user may scan multiple documents in one batch each document containing billing information for a different payee to be enrolled in the bill pay system and the process described above may be automatically repeated for each bill or document scanned.

Referring next to shown is a system diagram illustrating an example system for automatic bill pay enrollment. Shown is an example paper bill . On the paper bill shown is example information that may be recognized and used by the scanning system . These items may comprise but are not limited to the bank or payee name and address a subheading an account number a new balance amount a minimum payment due amount and a payment due date .

The scanning system may be similar to that of the scanning system and interface described in the information identification system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 321 025 entitled Remote Deposit of Checks filed Dec. 29 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety wherein the scanning of the document is completed through a web interface that takes control of a home scanner of a user and assists the user through the scanning process. For example once the paper bill is scanned it may be presented to the user over a web interface in which the user may identify the borders of the document or key areas on the document containing or associated with relevant information that needs to be captured.

The information identification system identifies the relevant information by using OCR for example to recognize the common labels or other identifiers as described above within the document and may search within the proximity of those identifiers for the relevant information.

The automatic bill pay enrollment system then takes the identified relevant information from the information identification system and enters this information into a database used by a bill pay system to enroll the payee in the bill pay system. The automatic bill pay enrollment system may assign the payee a unique identifier in order to identify the payee for subsequent bill paying procedures associated with that payee.

Referring next to shown is a system diagram illustrating an example system for automatic bill pay enrollment using a bar code on a paper bill. Note the bar code example on the paper bill example. Relevant information for enrolling the payee may be encoded in the bar code . In this way a bar code reader or scanner may be part of the scanning system such that the relevant information may be read and input by scanning the bar code instead of or in addition to the entire paper bill .

Referring next to shown is a flow chart illustrating an example additional process for automatic bill pay enrollment. First a user may scan the bar code as described above such that the relevant information may be read and input by scanning the bar code instead of or in addition to the entire paper bill. The information read from the bar code on the paper bill is then used to enroll the payee in the bill pay system. Additionally the system may check for duplicate enrollments based on the payee information and then notify the user of such findings or errors. Also other actions may be taken based upon information read from the scanned paper bill or scanned bar code. For example a due date may be suggested or used based upon a due date read from the scanned paper bill. Also marketing messages or notices may be sent to the user based on other information read on from the paper bill. For example if the bill is for a credit card and an interest rate is read from the paper bill or determined from the payment amounts etc. then an automatic offer for a lower interest credit card or to transfer balances may be made to the user.

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitations. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims. Those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings of this specification may effect numerous modifications thereto and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects.

