---

title: System and method for navigating between user interface elements across paired devices
abstract: A method is provide that comprises detecting an incoming or outgoing call; and sending data to a paired device for displaying a plurality of elements associated with the call in a user interface on the paired device prior to connecting the call, the plurality of elements having been obtained from a plurality of sources accessible to the mobile device. Another method is provided, which comprises receiving data from the mobile device for displaying a plurality of elements associated with the call in a user interface on a paired device prior to connecting the call, the plurality of elements having been obtained from a plurality of sources accessible to the mobile device; and displaying the plurality of elements in a user interface on the paired device using the data received from the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08503936&OS=08503936&RS=08503936
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08503936
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 397 533 filed on Feb. 15 2012 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 548 145 filed on Oct. 17 2011 61 555 836 filed on Nov. 4 2011 and 61 555 984 filed on Nov. 4 2011 the contents of these applications being incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Computing devices or systems providing user interfaces UIs on a display to enable users to interact with the computing devices or systems traditionally separate functionality and operability into distinct applications. For example messages may be accessed through a messages inbox or application UI calendar events may be accessed through a calendar application UI instant messaging IM conversations may be accessed through an IM application social networking updates may be accessed through the messages inbox UI or a social networking application UI etc.

The separation of data items associated with the functionally and operability of the computing device or system into different applications creates a virtual barrier between the data items. For example if a user wishes to view a calendar appointment associated with a message they are currently viewing the user would typically navigate from the messages application UI to the calendar application UI and find the particular calendar appointment. On computing devices having relatively smaller displays such as smart phones tablet computers portable gaming systems and the like having to navigate between applications in this way can be cumbersome and time consuming. Moreover the user may inadvertently forget where they are navigating to and have difficulty returning to the previous application UI.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the examples described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the examples described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the examples described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the examples described herein.

It will be appreciated that the examples and corresponding diagrams used herein are for illustrative purposes only. Different configurations and terminology can be used without departing from the principles expressed herein. For instance components and modules can be added deleted modified or arranged with differing connections without departing from these principles.

To provide a more convenient navigation flow between user interface items an amalgamated dossier view may be provided. Such a dossier view incorporates multiple links to item UIs application UIs and other dossier views to enable pivoting between related UIs and navigation through and around a connected social or business network without having to individually access each application UI and search or otherwise locate the desired item UIs application UIs or other dossier views.

It has also been found that when receiving a call on a mobile device current caller ID functions generally provide only minimal details related to the caller such as the phone number and if available the name and a picture associated with the caller. Although such information may assist in identifying the caller by providing additional information such as a dossier view or modified version thereof during an incoming call screen the recipient can better understand the context of the call and his her relationship with the caller.

While participating in a call e.g. direct call group call conference call etc. it can be time consuming to obtain detailed information associated with the other call attendee s to facilitate communications and coordination with the call attendee s . For example one may need to access a corporate directory or social networking system to obtain detailed information about the call attendee s and recent interactions or relevant associations e.g. to see what has been posted recent activities profile pages calendars call logs messages group lists etc. Moreover it may be unclear which if any of these directories or systems will provide useful information concerning the call attendee s . By providing additional information in for example a dossier view on a paired device the recipient would have relevant information about the call attendee s available without having to search for such relevant information. Navigation between item UIs application UIs and dossier views can also be facilitated during a call.

It has also been found that although both temporary and longer term groups may form dynamically in a real world setting often creating corresponding electronic groups can be time consuming or may not occur at all particularly temporary groups. Additionally when the need for a group ends the group typically needs to be manually deleted and thus may persist longer than the group is needed. To facilitate group communications automatic group creation automatic modification e.g. removal of a member and automatic deletion of electronic groups can be implemented by detecting events that correspond to creation modification and deletion events. In addition to facilitating group communications on personal mobile devices by creating and making the group available in a cloud computing environment users may seamlessly transition to other devices and access the same group data in order to continue participating in the electronic group in different scenarios and environments. For example a user may wish to update group data from a desktop computer instead of a mobile device and access to the cloud computing environment facilitates such an update.

An example of an update to the group data includes the creation of a task which can be assigned to other members of the group or the entire group itself. Newly created tasks and the associated information for that task may then be available to other members of the group including access through the cloud computing environment.

The creation modification and deletion of groups as well as the creation of tasks for a group can be incorporated into group dossier UIs to enhance the navigation flows herein described.

Turning now to various example UI navigation flows are shown to illustrate navigation into and out of UIs through links or other identifiers included in the UIs and the amalgamation of a plurality of data items associated with an individual or group of individuals in a single UI. Hereinafter UIs comprising multiple data items that are associated with the same individual or group of individuals may be commonly referred to as a dossier UI for the sake of clarity. Similarly a navigation into one UI and back to the previous UI may be commonly referred to as pivot for the sake of clarity. Groups as hereinafter described may refer to any association of more than one individual and may be used to commonly refer to both short term or event related groups e.g. a meeting appointment or occasion and groupings based on associations between individuals which may be persistent or otherwise longer term than something tied to a temporally affected event.

An application UI is shown in which illustrates a traditional UI that has been developed to perform one or more particular functions and may utilize and or provide one or more items . For example the application UI may display items representing messages status updates calendar invites and responses etc. also illustrates an item UI which represents a displayed element that in this example may be launched opened or otherwise displayed after detecting an input associated with the item provided in the application UI . By storing or obtaining data associated with the items individually the corresponding item UIs may be accessed and displayed via other UIs as described below. In this way a user can pivot between item UIs and dossier views to more conveniently navigate between items that share context with each other an individual a group of individuals or are otherwise related or associated with each other. An individual dossier UI and a group dossier UI are also shown in . The dossier UIs amalgamate a plurality of links or identifiers hereinafter commonly referred to as links for the sake of clarity associated with a plurality of items from at least one data source see also described below which when selected navigate the user to the associated item UI . Various links are shown in and it may be appreciated that those shown are for illustrative purposes only.

Various navigation flows and or flow segments are shown in which are given labels or reference numerals through . Flow illustrates a traditional UI flow wherein after detecting selection of an item in an application UI an associated first item UI is displayed. In such a traditional UI flow the user may navigate back to the application UI e.g. by closing the first item UI . As discussed above traditional UI flows typically require that the user navigate out of or away from one application UI and to another application UI in order to access and or display a second item UI . To provide a more convenient navigation flow a dossier view may be provided which incorporates multiple links to item UIs application UIs and other dossier views to enable pivoting between related UIs and navigation through and around a connected social or business network without having to individually access each application UI and search or otherwise locate the desired item UIs application UIs or other dossier views.

Flow illustrates an example navigation flow between an application UI and an individual dossier UI which amalgamates links to items and or item UIs associated with each other according to at least one predetermined criterion. In the example shown selection of Item or a portion thereof pivots the display to the individual dossier UI . For example by tapping or selecting a name associated with a message may open an individual dossier UI corresponding to a contact in a contact list or address book corresponding to the name selected. As discussed below pivoting back to the previous view in Flow the application UI may be performed in various ways. For example the user may navigate back to the previous view by selecting a cancel or back button convenience key soft key or other link. The individual dossier UI may also include an application identifier App which when selected navigates back to the application UI . It can be appreciated that the application identifier can be used both to pivot back to the application UI e.g. in scenarios wherein the previous view provided the application UI and to continue a navigation flow into the application UI e.g. in scenarios wherein the previous view was not the application UI . Flow in illustrates a navigation from the individual dossier UI to the application UI .

Flow illustrates an example wherein an item link provided in the individual dossier UI may be selectable to enable navigation directly to the first item UI . Flow illustrates an example wherein a dossier link Doss is provided in the first item UI to enable a pivot back to the individual dossier UI or a further navigation flow segment towards the individual dossier UI . As discussed above it can be appreciated that a pivot from the first item UI back into the individual dossier UI may be performed in various ways. It can also be appreciated that predetermined inputs may also be used to automatically navigate from an item UI back into its associated application UI . For example by closing the first item UI in a manner similar to a traditional navigation may direct the user back to the application UI .

Flow illustrates an example wherein a group link provided in the first item UI may be selectable to enable navigation from the first item UI into the group dossier UI . Similarly Flow illustrates an example wherein another item link provided in the group dossier UI may be selectable to enable navigation from the group dossier UI into the first item UI . Flows and therefore illustrate that the first item UI may be accessed from various UIs by associating item links with for example dossier UIs . Flow illustrates that the dossier UIs may also include links to other dossier UIs. In the example shown in another group link to the group dossier UI is provided in the individual dossier UI to enable a pivot between or a navigation segment from the individual dossier UI into the group dossier UI . Flow illustrates that yet another item link may be provided in an item UI to enable a user to navigate directly between the first item UI and the second item UI . For example reference to the second item or the second item UI may be detected and the second item link inserted accordingly to enable selection thereof to navigate directly from the first item UI to the second item UI .

It can be appreciated that the UI navigation flows and segments illustrated in may be applicable to UIs displayed by any electronic computing device including mobile electronic devices. Examples of applicable mobile electronic devices may include without limitation cellular phones smart phones tablet computers wireless organizers personal digital assistants laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers portable gaming devices and the like. Such devices will hereinafter be commonly referred to as mobile devices for the sake of clarity. It will however be appreciated that the principles described herein are also suitable to other electronic computing devices e.g. non mobile devices. Such other devices will hereinafter be commonly referred to as computing devices for the sake of clarity. For example the principles herein are equally applicable to personal computers PCs tabletop computing devices wall mounted screens such as kiosks or any other computing device .

Referring to an example of a communication system is shown. The communication system in this example enables at least in part mobile devices to communicate with other mobile devices and other computing devices via a wireless network . For example as shown data items may be exchanged between various mobile devices and computing devices . Data items that are sent from one mobile device to another mobile device may be transmitted according to a particular messaging or communication medium protocol or other mechanism. For example as shown in data items may be sent over the wireless network via a component of a network infrastructure . The network infrastructure can include various systems that may be used by the mobile devices to exchange data items . For example a peer to peer P2P system a short message service centre SMSC an email system e.g. web based enterprise based or otherwise a web system e.g. hosting a website or web service a host system e.g. enterprise server social networking system etc. may be provided by or within or be otherwise supported or facilitated by the network infrastructure . The mobile devices and other computing devices may therefore send data items to or receive data items from other mobile devices or computing devices via one or more particular systems with which the mobile devices and computing devices are communicable via the wireless network or other network not shown and network infrastructure . It can be appreciated that computing devices may also communicate with each other over other networks also not shown .

As shown in the mobile device may include at least one communication subsystem for accessing external data sources and or to obtain data items for application data components . It can be appreciated that the application data components may represent any memory element used for storing data items for an application. For example data items may be stored by a person information management PIM function or tool.

A number of applications are shown in which include an application UI and a number of individual item UIs e.g. an inbox UI and message UIs . The applications are communicable with a display components for rendering UI elements on a display of the mobile device see also described below . It can be appreciated from the dashed lines shown by way of example in that the dossier UIs generated by the dossier UI module enable navigation between item UIs and application UIs displayed by the mobile device in a more direct and convenient manner. In this way navigation flows such as those shown in may be enabled on the mobile device .

The mobile device in the example shown in is also operable to provide at least one application UI at and to display any such application UI at e.g. by detecting selection of an icon or a navigation segment as illustrated in . Also as discussed above an application UI may include not only item links but also links to dossier UIs . When an application UI is being displayed the dossier view module may be operable to determine at whether or not a link to a dossier UI has been selected. If so the dossier view module navigates to the dossier UI displayed at or . If a link to a dossier UI has not be selected the dossier view module may be operable to determine whether or not an item link has been selected at . If so the associated item UI may be displayed at . As discussed above an item UI may include not only links to dossier UIs but also item links. The dossier view module may be operable to determine at whether or not a dossier link has been selected. If so navigation may proceed to the dossier UI displayed at or . If a dossier link has not been selected the dossier view module may be operable to determine at whether or not an item link has been selected. If not the dossier view module may be operable to continue to display the item UI at . If an item link has been selected the dossier view module may navigate to a different item UI at . It can be appreciated that although not shown in an item UI may also include links to application UIs and the dossier view module may be operable to determine whether or not such links have been selected. In this example it is assumed that navigation from an item UI to an application UI occurs through closing or pivoting back from an item UI .

The individual dossier UI shown in includes an individual s details portion a contact individual portion with a number of contact buttons representing corresponding media by which the individual may be contacted a real time activity portion including a number of the most recent interactions associated with the individual a recent activity portion including less recent interactions associated with the individual a relationship portion identifying the individual s relationship if any to the user of the mobile device a mutual contacts portion a location identifier for the individual and a mutual events portion . Each element shown in may be utilized as a link to an item UI application UI or different dossier UI . It can be appreciated that the elements shown in are for illustrative purposes only. By way of example the contact buttons may correspond to voice phone IM email calendar invites text messaging etc. The most recent interactions and less recent interactions may include without limitation social networking updates e.g. posts comments messages voicemails meetings or appointments social networking feeds IMs emails text messages location updates etc. The relationship portion may include past or current associations between the user of the mobile device and the individual and the individual s details portion may include contact details pulled from a contact list or address book. As discussed above the item links displayed in the individual dossier UI may correspond to data items available on the mobile device as well as from any available data source such as a social network infrastructure.

The individual dossier UI may also provide a pivot button for convenient pivoting back to the previous UI. In the example shown in selection of the pivot button would navigate the user back to the messages inbox UI . The pivot button is an optional feature and the user may instead or additionally navigate back to the messages inbox UI by selecting an application UI link e.g. an icon included in a most recent interaction associated with the message item selected from the messages inbox UI in . Other user experience elements such as gestures may also be used to initiate a navigation or pivot from one UI to another. For example as shown in a backwardly directed swipe gesture may be operable to pivot back to the messages inbox UI . By selecting the application UI link the pivot button or performing a swipe gesture as shown in dossier view module pivots back to the messages inbox UI as shown in . In this way the user is able to pivot to the individual dossier UI for a sender of message item to obtain further context or information associated with the message item . This allows the user to respond to the message item with a better understanding of the context and background of the sender of the message item . In this example by selecting the message preview portion of the message details a message UI may be displayed as shown in . The message UI in this example includes a message header and a message body . The message UI may also include one or more identifiers that correspond to the identifiers listed with the message item in the messages inbox UI . It can be appreciated that the message UI illustrates an example item UI . The user may then select a reply button in the message header to reply to the message item .

An other example navigation flow is illustrated in . illustrates a meeting dossier UI which provides an example of a group dossier UI particularly a dossier UI related to an event or occasion. As discussed above it can be appreciated that the group dossier UIs may be used to provide a plurality of data items associated with an event associated with a group of individuals an organized or implicit group of individuals e.g. family friends etc. or any other grouping that may in some form be associated with more than one contact or individual. The meeting dossier UI in this example includes a meeting details portion a contact group portion with a number of contact buttons representing corresponding media by which the meeting invitees attendees may be contacted a meeting invitees portion providing invitee identifiers for the meeting invitees and a new invitation button for inviting new invitees a group discussion portion and an other data items portion . It can be appreciated that the elements shown in are for illustrative purposes only. For example the meeting details portion may include meeting details obtained from a calendar appointment associated with the meeting dossier UI . As in the contact buttons may correspond to voice phone or conference IM email calendar invites text messaging etc. The group discussion portion may include an ongoing IM conversation other embedded chat feature or a unified view of recent messages across several media. The group discussion portion or other data items portion may also include without limitation social networking updates e.g. posts comments messages voicemails social networking feeds IMs emails text messages location updates posted meeting materials etc. In an example the user may begin typing in an open text box not shown in the group discussion portion and attach a file such as a presentation or other item that the user wishes to share with other meeting attendees. When the user submits a comment and attachment the group discussion portion may be updated for the meeting dossier UI for each meeting invitee attendee and the attached file may be provided or otherwise accessible through the other data items portion . The other data items portion may include various shared files e.g. photos presentations spreadsheets documents etc. that an individual in the group has shared with other members of the group.

After detecting selection of a particular meeting invitee identifier as shown in the dossier view module may navigate or pivot to the individual dossier UI for that individual as shown in . For example the user may see that a certain individual is attending a meeting and wish to learn more about that individual. By pivoting between the meeting dossier UI and the individual dossier UI as shown in the user may quickly determine comprehensive information regarding interactions had with that individual. By selecting the mutual event corresponding to the meeting details from the mutual events portion in the individual dossier UI or by selecting the pivot button or performing the swipe gesture if available as shown in the dossier view module can pivot back to the meeting dossier UI as shown in . In this example it may be assumed that the user realized when viewing the individual dossier view in that another individual should be invited to the meeting. By locating and selecting a discussion item in the group discussion portion in the meeting dossier UI as shown in the dossier view module can navigate directly to a message UI for that discussion item as shown in . In this way the user can quickly jump to the relevant message or item related to the uninvited individual and by selecting the reply button can generate a new message as shown in notifying the uninvited individual of the meeting before sending a new invite. Turning now to a message reply UI is shown which includes a message body composed by the user to notify the corresponding individual of the meeting and to provide notice that they will send another invite just in case . After detecting selection of a send button the dossier view module can pivot back to the meeting dossier UI as shown in to enable the new invitation button to be selected. By enabling navigation between item UIs such as the message UI and message reply UI and dossier UIs the user can conveniently determine meeting invitees obtain further details regarding specific invitees perform a first action to notify an uninvited individual and perform a second action to invite or re invite that individual without having to necessarily navigate into and out of a number of application UIs .

An other example navigation flow is illustrated in . illustrates an individual dossier UI and selection of a less recent interaction from the recent activity portion . In this example after detecting selection of the less recent interaction an IM conversation UI is displayed by the dossier view module as shown in . The IM conversation UI is another example of an application UI . The IM conversation UI includes an incoming message which is another example of an item displayed in an application UI . The incoming message shown in includes message text comprising a group event link . It can be appreciated that the group event link may be generated by the dossier view engine upon detecting an association between a portion of the incoming message and a group dossier UI . For example a keyword search of the incoming message identifies that the group event mentioned corresponds to an established group dossier UI for that group event. After detecting selection of the group event link a group event dossier UI is displayed as shown in . It can be appreciated that item links application links and dossier links can be embedded in any UI element to enable navigation through or pivoting into and out of various UIs.

The group event dossier UI includes a group event details portion listing the event details e.g. charity event time of event date of event talent hired for event etc. a contact group portion with a number of contact buttons representing corresponding media by which the group members may be contacted a group members portion providing identifiers for the group members and a new invitation button for inviting new members to the group a group discussion portion and an other data items portion . It can be appreciated that the elements shown in are for illustrative purposes only. As in the contact buttons may correspond to voice phone or conference IM email calendar invites text messaging etc. The group discussion portion may include various discussion items e.g. from an ongoing IM conversation other embedded chat feature or a unified view of recent messages across several media. The group discussion portion and or other data items portion may also include without limitation social networking updates e.g. posts comments messages voicemails social networking feeds IMs emails text messages location updates posted meeting materials etc.

In this example it may be assumed that the group event associated with the group event dossier UI is a charity event. The charity comprises a website and the website is linked or otherwise mentioned in the group discussion item . After detecting selection of the group discussion item the dossier view module may initiate a browser UI as shown in to display the charity s website. In this example the charity s website displayed by the browser includes a board members portion indicating board members for the charity and an event details portion related to the group event. By navigating into the browser UI in this way the user may notice that one of the board members shown on the website is the contact associated with the IM conversation UI shown in . By selecting the board member as shown in the dossier view module may then navigate into an individual dossier UI for that contact as shown in . In this example it can be assumed that although the user s contact is a board member of the charity they are not included in the group associated with the group event dossier UI shown in . After detecting a further selection of the less recent interaction as shown in the dossier view module may initiate the display of the IM conversation UI as shown in .

By enabling the user to navigate from the individual dossier UI to the IM conversation UI to the group event dossier UI to a web site for the charity using the browser UI back to the individual dossier UI and again back to the IM conversation UI the user can gain insightful context regarding the relationship between the individual and the charity event associated with the group event.

As shown in an outgoing message sent to the individual can include a more meaningful reply by enabling the user to mention the board member linkage between the charity and the individual. It can be appreciated that in order to obtain the context provided in the navigation flow illustrated in using traditional UI flow the user would be required to navigate between several application UIs and search for relevant items in order to obtain the same context about the charity event and the individual that is on the board of the charity. Such a time consuming and cumbersome navigation may not even be attempting being thus detrimental to the user experience. By providing dossier UIs and links to application UIs item UIs and other dossier UIs a convenient and intuitive experience is instead provided.

As discussed above group dossier UIs can also be generated for groups based on associations between the individuals rather than a single event or meeting. illustrates an example of a persistent group dossier UI which may be generated for groups such as friends from college family members sports team etc. In this example the persistent group dossier UI includes a group name portion which may include other details pertaining to the group a group members portion which may include identifiers for each group member e.g. a photo or avatar a recent activity portion an upcoming events portion an individuals nearby portion which may be used to identify members from the group that are geographically nearby and various communication medium links e.g. for accessing IM email calendar voice or other media that can be used to connect or communicate with the other members of the group.

As discussed above the mobile devices shown in are for illustrative purposes only. Mobile devices may also interact with other devices. For example a smart phone mobile device may be tethered or paired with another device. When devices are tethered or paired with each other often the devices are capable of for example displaying an application UI on the device having a large screen size while using wireless connectivity of one of the devices to communicate via the wireless network . It has also been recognized that the principles discussed herein may also be advantageously applied to tethered or paired devices in order to enable convenient navigation between application UIs item UIs and dossier UIs . By having multiple devices and corresponding displays multiple UIs can be displayed at the same time while enabling navigation or pivoting between the devices to quickly and conveniently explore interconnected applications items and dossier type collections of items .

For example referring again to the example scenario illustrated in the individual dossier UI may be displayed on the first display to provide a pivot point or anchor for the UI navigation experience. When the user selects the recent activity item as shown in the IM conversation UI may be displayed on the second device and persist until the user closes the UI. In this way multiple branches from an anchor displayed on the first display can be created. Similarly selecting the link as shown in may cause the group event dossier UI to also be displayed on the second display or could move the individual dossier UI to the second display and display the group event dossier UI on the first display. This enables a current anchor to be displayed in the same place while updating other display areas as the navigation continues. For example the browser UI shown in could also be displayed on the second display and the UIs rearranged when the user selects the individual dossier UI again. For devices that utilize a touch screen and that enable multiple applications to be both running and displayed at the same time as illustrated in the user is able see a number of UIs at a glance and touch or tap through a navigation and pivot between UIs. By enabling for example dossier UIs to be anchored on one of the displays provided by multiple devices the user can intuitively navigate between UIs and across displays.

It can be appreciated that the examples described above are illustrative only. For example the principles discussed herein may be applied to other computing devices individually or in tethered coupled paired arrangements such as PCs gaming terminals kiosk displays etc.

The principles discussed above regarding the amalgamation of UI elements concerning an individual or group event based or persistent can also be applied to enhancing other functions provided by a mobile device such for displaying enhanced caller ID information.

By obtaining the individual dossier UI at stage the caller ID module can provide enhanced caller ID information at stage by displaying an enhanced caller ID UI that includes or incorporates at least some of the elements provided in the individual dossier UI along with at least one option for connecting the call as described below. In the example shown in it is assumed that the user answers the incoming call at stage by providing an input using the display e.g. by selecting a touch sensitive display screen or another input device such as a voice recognition module not shown track pad other key or button etc. After the call has been answered by the recipient and the call is connected the caller ID module may be operable to replace the enhanced caller ID UI with a call screen in order to provide various call details and call options as described further below. It can be appreciated that the call screen may also be a modification of the enhanced caller ID UI wherein any incoming call data or options e.g. answer or ignore buttons are replaced with such call details and options while retaining the portions of the individual dossier UI provided with the enhanced caller ID UI .

Gathering information concerning the caller such as by accessing a dossier UI or having a dossier UI generated as described herein enables the caller ID module to provide additional context regarding the caller along with various other available data associated with the caller. In this way the user may have immediate access to relevant details and information to increase productivity during the call make the call more meaningful and otherwise enhance the overall call experience.

In addition to providing enhanced caller ID information on the called device as discussed above the called device may also be tethered to or paired to another device such as a tablet computer e.g. as shown in hereinafter a paired device . illustrates an example of a configuration for a called device and a paired device operable to display enhanced caller ID information using both devices . As can be appreciated from stages and may be performed in a manner similar to those shown in and described above. However after obtaining an individual dossier UI for the caller in stage the called device in this example determines that the called device is paired to another device namely the paired device . Since the called device is paired to paired device the called device may provide the individual dossier UI or data enabling creation of the individual dossier UI to the paired device . At stage the caller ID module in this example in addition to displaying an enhanced caller ID UI at stage as described above provides the individual dossier UI or data enabling the creation thereof to the paired device at stage using a short range communications subsystem . It can be appreciated that the short range communications subsystem may generally represent any communicable connection between the called device and the paired device including both wired connections e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB cable and wireless connections e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi infrared etc. .

As shown in the paired device may also have a caller ID module operable to communicate with the caller ID module on the called device in order to receive the individual dossier UI via a short range communications subsystem of the paired device . The caller ID module on the paired device may then display the individual dossier UI at stage using a display module . It can be appreciated that by sending data from the called device to the paired device e.g. an individual dossier UI the recipient of the call may take advantage of the second display provided by the paired device . In scenarios wherein the paired device has a relatively larger display when compared to that of the called device not only is enhanced caller ID information provided but the recipient can conveniently view and interact with information concerning the caller to enhance the overall experience. In addition by enabling pivoting between dossier UIs application UIs and item UIs as described above the enhanced caller ID UI can be used as an entry point into a interconnected domain associated with the caller while currently communicating with that caller. In scenarios wherein the paired device has access to the wireless network an identifier or other data may be sent from the called device to the paired device to have the paired device access at least some data to be used in displaying a dossier UI on the paired device from a source accessible via the wireless network . This access enables the paired device to offload at least some processing and relieve bandwidth burden on the called device . Moreover by utilizing a connection available on the paired device at least some data transfer between the devices can be avoided. For example the caller ID module on the paired device may be operable to access the Internet over a communication subsystem not shown on the paired device and incorporate elements obtained from the Internet into the dossier UI or data related thereto in generating an output to be displayed on the display .

Similar to the example shown in as shown in it may be assumed that the user answers the incoming call at stage by providing an input using the display or another input device and the call screen may be displayed at stage . also illustrates that the individual dossier UI displayed by the paired device may also be interacted with at stage e.g. to navigate from the individual dossier UI to other dossier UIs application UIs and item UIs as described above.

Turning now to an example set of computer executable operations is shown that may be executed by the called device in providing enhanced caller ID. At the caller ID module detects incoming call data and determines an ID indicative of the caller and or group or event associated with the caller. The ID may then be used at to determine from the dossier view module if at least one corresponding dossier UI exists or can be generated. For example the caller may be an existing contact or a member of an existing group and a dossier UI may exist or be readily generated. Alternatively it can be appreciated that data accessible to the recipient of the call that is related to the caller may also be accessed in order to generate at least a partial individual dossier UI e.g. social networking profiles web pages etc. . It can be appreciated that data accessible to the recipient and related to the caller may include both publicly available data and data that requires a credential or association or connection between the recipient and the caller. For example a social networking connection may enable the recipient to utilize a credential associated with the social network to access data related to the caller that would otherwise not be publicly available. The caller ID module determines at whether or not at least one dossier UI can be obtained that is associated with the caller. If not an incoming call UI including available data such as phone number and or name may be displayed at .

If at least one dossier UI can be obtained the caller ID module determines at whether or not the called device is paired to another device e.g. the paired device shown in . If the called device is paired to a paired device data that enables the paired device to display the at least one dossier UI associated with the caller may be sent to the paired device at . It can be appreciated that the data sent at may be the dossier UI s or any data or information that enables the paired device to generate an equivalent or similar UI. Whether or not the called device is currently paired the caller ID module in this example displays the enhanced caller ID UI at which provides both enhanced caller ID information e.g. by using at least some elements of a dossier UI and options to accept or ignore reject the call. As discussed above the elements of an existing dossier UI or a dossier UI generated for displaying enhanced caller ID information may be adjusted according to a categorization of the caller. For example a business contact may cause elements related to business activities to be displayed e.g. business title calendar appointments etc. whereas a call from a personal contact such as a friend may cause personal or social elements to be displayed. It can be appreciated that different categorizations for the same contact may be implemented e.g. at different times of the day. In this way business activities related to a co worker friend may be displayed during working hours whereas social elements and activities displayed after work hours.

The caller ID module determines at whether or not the call is answered. If the call is ignored rejected or otherwise not answered the call is ended or otherwise not connected at . If the call is answered the caller ID module displays the call screen at to provide call details and call options as discussed above. The caller ID module determines at whether or not the connected and ongoing call has ended. If the call has not yet ended the call screen may continue to be displayed at . Once the call has ended an end of call message may be sent to the paired device at if applicable for the particular call and the call ends at .

After detecting the end of the call at the caller ID module in this example determines at if the user should be prompted to keep the dossier UI s open or not. If a prompt is to be provided the prompt is displayed at and the caller ID module determines at whether or not a selection from the prompt instructs the paired device to keep the dossier UI s open e.g. to further interact therewith. If the dossier UI s are to be kept open control may return to . If the dossier UI s are not to be kept open the dossier UI s may be closed at . It can be appreciated that instead of prompting the user whether or not to keep the dossier UI s open the caller ID module may be operable to either automatically keep the dossier UI s open or automatically close them. In this example the caller ID module in the absence of using a prompt determines at whether or not the dossier UI s should be automatically kept open. If not the dossier UI s are closed at . If the dossier UI s are to be automatically kept open the caller ID module may continue to display the dossier UI s at .

It can be seen that in this example not only can the paired device having a relatively larger display size display greater detail from each portion shown in wherein similar portions are shown in using a 0 for clarity additional items may also be displayed. For example as shown in various links to communication media may be displayed in the individual dossier UI as well as a mutual groups portion providing links or access to groups common to both the recipient and the caller both event based and persistent. It can be appreciated that the items provided in the individual dossier UI shown in can be interacted with to navigate to or pivot back and forth from other dossier UIs item UIs and application UIs as discussed above.

As discussed above in addition to enhancing a call by displaying individual dossier UIs related to the caller group dossier UIs may also be displayed to provide enhanced caller ID for a conference call or other multi participant call. Displaying an associated group dossier UI may therefore provide additional context for the conference or group call. Additionally multiple individual dossier UIs for multiple call attendees may also be displayed on either or both the called device and the paired device . For example the incoming call may be detectable as a conference call e.g. using an ID in the incoming call data a group or calendar event etc. and individual dossier UIs obtained for each call attendees as well as a group dossier UI for the meeting associated with the conference call if available. The group dossier UI may then be displayed on the called device and the group dossier UI and the individual dossier UIs displayable on the paired device .

Turning now to an example configuration is shown for a called device to obtain multiple individual dossier UIs and or at least one group dossier UI to enhance context for a conference or group call and to provide enhanced caller ID information. In the example shown in incoming call data includes an ID that is associated with any one or more of at least one call attendee e.g. the caller a calling service e.g. when arranging a conference call and a group or event associated with the call. The ID may then be used at stage to determine if there is an associated group or event e.g. by accessing or otherwise communicating with a calendar application group application etc. By accessing other applications not only can the caller ID module provide context for the caller the caller ID module can determine relevant groups or associations events such as meetings and call attendees that are likely part of or going to be part of the call. The ID sent to the dossier view module may therefore include identifying information related to one or more individuals and one or more groups such that at stage multiple individual and group dossier UIs or data related thereto may be provided to the caller ID module . An enhanced caller ID UI displayed in stage on the called device may therefore include details of the conference or group call such as event or group details It the example shown in it may be assumed that the called device is paired to a paired device and thus multiple individual and group dossier UIs may be sent to the paired device in stage . It may also be assumed in the example shown in that the call is answered at stage and a call screen displayed at stage .

Rather than automatically displaying all available dossier UIs on the paired device as shown in a call attendees list may be displayed enabling the user to select one or more dossier UIs associated with the call. In the example shown in a pair of attendees buttons are displayed with a meeting button to enable the dossier UIs shown in to be selectively displayed rather than automatically. It can be appreciated that the call attendees list and buttons shown in are illustrative only and various other navigational elements may be used in other examples.

Turning now to an example set of computer executable instructions is shown that may be performed by the caller ID module on the called device in determining how many if any dossier UIs are to be sent to the paired device . At the ID is used to determine if a group or event exists e.g. by accessing or querying other applications such as the calendar application and group application shown in . Based on such a determination the ID that is provided to the dossier view module for fetching or generating corresponding dossier UIs may be updated at to include group or event data including indications of other potential call attendees. The ID is used by the dossier view module to determine the associated individual and or group dossier UIs at such that the dossier UI s may be fetched or generated and provided to the caller ID module at .

In addition to providing enhanced caller ID information for incoming calls the caller ID module may also be operable to obtain and display dossier UIs on the called device and or the paired device for outgoing calls. illustrates an example set of operations that may be performed by the caller ID module for an outgoing call. At the caller ID module detects an outgoing call and uses call details to determine at if corresponding dossier UI s is are available and relevant to the outgoing call. For example the called number or other contact list details may be used to determine who the recipient of the call is such that an individual dossier UI can be displayed e.g. using the paired device to enhance the caller s context regarding the individual being called. In another example a conference call in number may be selected from a link in a calendar meeting whereupon a group dossier UI for that meeting is displayed on the paired device . As shown in after determining which if any dossier UIs are relevant to the outgoing call the caller ID module may operate for example according to operations described above.

The principles discussed above regarding the amalgamation of UI elements concerning an individual or group event based or persistent can also be incorporated into electronic groups that are created modified and deleted on or by a mobile device including groups containing members that utilize other types of devices.

It can be appreciated that when a group member uses a mobile device information on the mobile device can be used to supplement information from the group server and group database . In this way particular devices used by the group members can enhance the group experience when compared to other devices . For example a group member using a mobile device may have a better experience than when using a PC or other devices since the mobile device may have access to additional group member information such as location calendar information memos photos messages etc. which may be combined with information returned from the group server and group database to provide individual group members with a more complete and integrated view of the group members and their activity.

The devices capable of accessing the communication networks may therefore include mobile devices and other electronic devices such as a desktop computer kiosk smart home system etc. In the example shown in group member A is configured to access the internet via a network access point in communication with a first device Device A. Group member A may also access a wireless network using a mobile device Device A. Both communication channels enable group member A to determine the membership of the group and related information by accessing the group server and group database . The cloud computing infrastructure retains enough group data to enable a member to generate a user interface and user experience on the particular device being used without having to store all relevant group data. For example when accessing the group server using a mobile device the mobile device can use the membership of the group as specified by the group server to generate a group dossier UI and leverage data and communication capabilities available on the mobile device . It can be appreciated that Devices B C and D are shown for illustrative purposes only and may represent any one or more devices utilized by group members B C and D respectively.

The devices may communicate with each other via the networks in performing group operations such as sharing data sharing calendar events sharing media items e.g. pictures videos documents etc. messaging with each other sharing tasks or lists of items etc. It can be appreciated that the group may be facilitated by a server located in a network or other infrastructure not shown or may be maintained by each device in a serverless configuration wherein the devices share update and maintain common data in local databases.

In one example the group server may be the same server used in facilitating group operations or may be a server that is used independent of any service that supports the group . For example the group may be supported by a server or other component of a wireless network infrastructure e.g. wireless router or relay whereas the group server is provided and maintained by a separate service within the cloud computing infrastructure e.g. a web based service accessible to the networks .

By maintaining the group database in the cloud computing infrastructure group data and group activities can be monitored and contributed to by group members using multiple devices and device types. It can be appreciated that shifting or copying group data e.g. changing group membership to the cloud computing infrastructure facilitates a more seamless group experience by enabling a user to participate in the group using multiple and different devices while being able to leverage capabilities and advantages provided by such different devices .

The group module is operable to automatically create new groups based on events such as detecting proximity with at least one contact frequent messaging between contacts common calendar events with other contacts common media content being consumed etc. Such new groups may be short lived or ephemeral based on a detectable duration of the event that triggered creation of the group or may be longer term e.g. based on a registration membership or other change in status with respect to an organization or group of individuals. Examples of relatively longer term groups include without limitation friends from college family members hockey friends church friends etc. Create group instructions may be generated by the group module and provided to the group application or dossier view module to enable new groups to be created. For example detecting that at least one contact in an address book or contact list is proximate to the mobile device may trigger the creation of a new group wherein a group dossier UI is also generated to pull in data and information that is available with respect to the group members. At the same time an existing group application such as a group component of an instant messaging application may also be created for the purpose of enabling messaging between group members. Group creation instructions may be generated in response to user input external data or by detecting other events such as proximate locations. For example the group module may be operable to obtain location information for contacts of the user of the mobile device and compare the location information to a current location of the mobile device . The current location of the mobile device may be obtained in various ways e.g. by accessing a global positioning system GPS receiver of the mobile device . Another example of detecting an event includes determining that the user has been regularly emailing the same group about a particular topic e.g. upcoming meetings concerts hockey games etc. . Yet another example of detecting an event includes determining that the user regularly schedules conference calls with the same or similar group of individuals e.g. a collection of staff at work . Group creation instructions based on external data or events detectable by the mobile device may therefore include various detectable correlations associations linkages etc. between collections of users or contacts.

Modify group instructions may also be generated by the group module and provided to the group application and or dossier view module for adding or removing members deleting the group removing the mobile device from a group that will persist etc.

Tasks may be created in association with a group and those tasks assigned to one or more members of the group . For example a group that is formed based on a detected calendar event for a meeting may enable tasks leading up to the meeting to be created. A new task may be created by interacting with the mobile device and the group UI e.g. by interacting with the display and or other input device such as a keyboard. Task data is generated for creating a new task modifying an existing task deleting or completing a task and performing other operations associated with a group task.

The group module can automatically generate a new group based on various detectable events. For example detecting that one or more contacts is are within a predetermined distance of the current location of the mobile device may cause an automatic group including those contacts to be formed. illustrates a location based group UI for displaying a map showing a current location for the mobile device and friend locations of those contacts within a predetermined distance from the mobile device . The location based group UI may be created automatically when at least one contact is within the predetermined distance and invite others to join as contacts are detected within this range. The location based group UI in this example provides a group dossier view for the members of the newly formed group . A communication media portion is provided which includes a number of communication media that may be used to contact the contacts in the group . For example a phone icon IM icon and email icon may be displayed to enable the respective communication media to be used to get in touch with the group members. Messaging groups may be automatically formed e.g. by accessing a group application and creating a new group within that group application . A group activity portion can be used to display various types of group activity including recent messages in a related messaging group. A related data portion may also be included for displaying other data and information pulled from other sources. For example the related data portion may include the same information as the recent activity portion of an individual dossier UI see but may include a combined collection of recent activities for all group members.

The group formed based on the proximity of various contact as shown in may be automatically deleted as the proximity of the contacts disappears. illustrates a group update UI in which a group update message is displayed indicating that Bob has left the area and is no longer in the group . It can be appreciated that similar group updates may be displayed as other members leave the area defining the location based group until the group no longer exists at which time the group can be deleted.

Similar UIs may be generated automatically based on other events. For example detecting that the user of the mobile device has created or accepted an invitation to a meeting or appointment can trigger the group module to create a new group and group dossier UI related to the calendar event as discussed above.

After a new task has been created using the group task UI a task list portion is created in the car pool group UI as shown in . It can be appreciated that by enabling tasks to be created in the manner shown in group dossier UIs group applications group database in the mobile devices of the group members and in the cloud computing infrastructure can be updated in concert to allow other members to view the tasks be assigned to tasks and to access and view tasks from other electronic devices . In this way group interactions can propagate throughout a social network and become part of the UIs between which a user can pivot and with which the user can interact as discussed herein.

As discussed above it can be appreciated that a car pool group is only one example of a group . For example groups of friends family members co workers teams committees etc. may also be formed according to the principles discussed herein.

It can also be appreciated that location based groups as illustrated in are only one example of a type of group. For example groups may be formed based on various other associations such as frequent messaging common interests common memberships or organizations etc.

Once the group server has created the new group that has been automatically created by Member A and Member B the group server can provide access to the group data at to enable other electronic devices accessing a group application at to access the group data from the cloud at . Since the group server has been provided with the group data associated with the new group the electronic device can be used to perform a group operation at and have group data sent at to the group server and member devices to be received at . It can be appreciated that as shown in the electronic device may be operable to send the group data directly to both the group server and the member mobile devices or may have the group server send the group data on behalf of the electronic device .

Providing access to the group server for electronic devices enables users to more conveniently interact with groups using multiple entry points . For example a user with a mobile device may be automatically added to a new group while stationary at work when friends are detected close by. Instead of only being able to interact with the new group using their mobile device by accessing the group server using another electronic device such as their desktop computer group operations can be seamlessly performed regardless of the device being used. This access provided to the electronic device in addition to sharing of group data between tethered devices e.g. as discussed above enables a single user to participate in a group using multiple devices in a convenient manner.

Accordingly there is provided a method of operating a first electronic device the method comprising displaying a first user interface on the first electronic device the first user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources first plurality of data items including a first data item associated with a second user interface detecting a first input selecting the first data item in the first user interface and transferring data to a second electronic device communicable with the first electronic device over a short range connection the data enabling the second electronic device to display the second user interface comprising at least said first data item.

There is also provided a method of operating an electronic device communicable with another electronic device over a short range connection the method comprising receiving data from the other electronic device the data enabling the electronic device to display a first user interface comprising at least said first data item the first data item having been included in a second user interface displayed on the other electronic device the second user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources the plurality of data items comprising the first data item and displaying the first user interface.

There is also provided a first electronic device comprising a processor memory and a display the memory comprising computer executable instructions for operating the first electronic device to display a first user interface on the first electronic device the first user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources first plurality of data items including a first data item associated with a second user interface detect a first input selecting the first data item in the first user interface and transfer data to a second electronic device communicable with the first electronic device over a short range connection the data enabling the second electronic device to display the second user interface comprising at least said first data item.

There is also provided a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions for operating a first electronic device the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for displaying a first user interface on the first electronic device the first user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources first plurality of data items including a first data item associated with a second user interface detecting a first input selecting the first data item in the first user interface and transferring data to a second electronic device communicable with the first electronic device over a short range connection the data enabling the second electronic device to display the second user interface comprising at least said first data item.

There is also provided an electronic device communicable with another electronic device over a short range connection the electronic device comprising a processor memory and a display the memory comprising computer executable instructions for operating the electronic device to receive data from the other electronic device the data enabling the electronic device to display a first user interface comprising at least said first data item the first data item having been included in a second user interface displayed on the other electronic device the second user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources the plurality of data items comprising the first data item and display the first user interface.

There is also provided a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions for operating an electronic device communicable with another electronic device over a short range connection the computer executable instructions comprising instructions for receiving data from the other electronic device the data enabling the electronic device to display a first user interface comprising at least said first data item the first data item having been included in a second user interface displayed on the other electronic device the second user interface comprising a plurality of data items obtained from a plurality of sources the plurality of data items comprising the first data item and displaying the first user interface.

Referring to to further aid in the understanding of the example mobile devices described above shown therein is a block diagram of an example configuration of a mobile device . The mobile device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards which is used worldwide. Other communication configurations that are equally applicable are the 3G and 4G networks such as Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access Wi Max etc. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the examples described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a touch sensitive display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard physical virtual or both a speaker a microphone a GPS receiver short range communications subsystem a camera a accelerometer and other device subsystems . Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the wireless network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. In one example the mobile device can include a non touch sensitive display in place of or in addition to the touch sensitive display . For example the touch sensitive display can be replaced by a display that may not have touch sensitive capabilities.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device may use a subscriber module component or smart card such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM a Removable User Identity Module RUIM and a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM . In the example shown a SIM RUIM USIM is to be inserted into a SIM RUIM USIM interface in order to communicate with a network.

The mobile device is typically a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some examples the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to . The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications may be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Software applications may include a message application a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM a connect module and an IT policy module . A message application can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages wherein messages are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile device . A device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power. A PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events and voice mails and may interact with the wireless network . A connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile device is authorized to interface with. An IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy and may be responsible for organizing and securing rules such as the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy.

Other types of software applications or components can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be pre installed applications i.e. other than message application or third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem .

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

For voice communications received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The touch sensitive display may be any suitable touch sensitive display such as a capacitive resistive infrared surface acoustic wave SAW touch sensitive display strain gauge optical imaging dispersive signal technology acoustic pulse recognition and so forth as known in the art. In the presently described example the touch sensitive display is a capacitive touch sensitive display which includes a capacitive touch sensitive overlay . The overlay may be an assembly of multiple layers in a stack which may include for example a substrate a ground shield layer a barrier layer one or more capacitive touch sensor layers separated by a substrate or other barrier and a cover. The capacitive touch sensor layers may be any suitable material such as patterned indium tin oxide ITO .

The display of the touch sensitive display may include a display area in which information may be displayed and a non display area extending around the periphery of the display area. Information is not displayed in the non display area which is utilized to accommodate for example electronic traces or electrical connections adhesives or other sealants and or protective coatings around the edges of the display area.

One or more touches also known as touch contacts or touch events may be detected by the touch sensitive display . The processor may determine attributes of the touch including a location of a touch. Touch location data may include an area of contact or a single point of contact such as a point at or near a center of the area of contact known as the centroid. A signal is provided to the controller in response to detection of a touch. A touch may be detected from any suitable object such as a finger thumb appendage or other items for example a stylus pen or other pointer depending on the nature of the touch sensitive display . The location of the touch moves as the detected object moves during a touch. The controller and or the processor may detect a touch by any suitable contact member on the touch sensitive display . Similarly multiple simultaneous touches are detected.

One or more gestures are also detected by the touch sensitive display . A gesture is a particular type of touch on a touch sensitive display that begins at an origin point and continues to an end point. A gesture may be identified by attributes of the gesture including the origin point the end point the distance travelled the duration the velocity and the direction for example. A gesture may be long or short in distance and or duration. Two points of the gesture may be utilized to determine a direction of the gesture.

An example of a gesture is a swipe also known as a flick . A swipe has a single direction. The touch sensitive overlay may evaluate swipes with respect to the origin point at which contact is initially made with the touch sensitive overlay and the end point at which contact with the touch sensitive overlay ends rather than using each of location or point of contact over the duration of the gesture to resolve a direction.

Examples of swipes include a horizontal swipe a vertical swipe and a diagonal swipe. A horizontal swipe typically comprises an origin point towards the left or right side of the touch sensitive overlay to initialize the gesture a horizontal movement of the detected object from the origin point to an end point towards the right or left side of the touch sensitive overlay while maintaining continuous contact with the touch sensitive overlay and a breaking of contact with the touch sensitive overlay . Similarly a vertical swipe typically comprises an origin point towards the top or bottom of the touch sensitive overlay to initialize the gesture a horizontal movement of the detected object from the origin point to an end point towards the bottom or top of the touch sensitive overlay while maintaining continuous contact with the touch sensitive overlay and a breaking of contact with the touch sensitive overlay .

Swipes can be of various lengths can be initiated in various places on the touch sensitive overlay and need not span the full dimension of the touch sensitive overlay . In addition breaking contact of a swipe can be gradual in that contact with the touch sensitive overlay is gradually reduced while the swipe is still underway.

Meta navigation gestures may also be detected by the touch sensitive overlay . A meta navigation gesture is a gesture that has an origin point that is outside the display area of the touch sensitive overlay and that moves to a position on the display area of the touch sensitive display. Other attributes of the gesture may be detected and be utilized to detect the meta navigation gesture. Meta navigation gestures may also include multi touch gestures in which gestures are simultaneous or overlap in time and at least one of the touches has an origin point that is outside the display area and moves to a position on the display area of the touch sensitive overlay . Thus two fingers may be utilized for meta navigation gestures. Further multi touch meta navigation gestures may be distinguished from single touch meta navigation gestures and may provide additional or further functionality.

In some examples an optional force sensor or force sensors is disposed in any suitable location for example between the touch sensitive display and a back of the mobile device to detect a force imparted by a touch on the touch sensitive display . The force sensor may be a force sensitive resistor strain gauge piezoelectric or piezoresistive device pressure sensor or other suitable device. Force as utilized throughout the specification refers to force measurements estimates and or calculations such as pressure deformation stress strain force density force area relationships thrust torque and other effects that include force or related quantities.

Force information related to a detected touch may be utilized to select information such as information associated with a location of a touch. For example a touch that does not meet a force threshold may highlight a selection option whereas a touch that meets a force threshold may select or input that selection option. Selection options include for example displayed or virtual keys of a keyboard selection boxes or windows e.g. cancel delete or unlock function buttons such as play or stop on a music player and so forth. Different magnitudes of force may be associated with different functions or input. For example a lesser force may result in panning and a higher force may result in zooming.

It will be appreciated that any module or component exemplified herein that executes instructions may include or otherwise have access to computer readable media such as storage media computer storage media or data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by an application module or both. Any such computer storage media may be part of the mobile device any component of or related to the communication system etc. or accessible or connectable thereto. Any application or module herein described may be implemented using computer readable executable instructions that may be stored or otherwise held by such computer readable media.

The steps or operations in the flow charts and diagrams described herein are just for example. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the principles discussed above. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified.

Although the above principles have been described with reference to certain specific examples various modifications thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art as outlined in the appended claims.

