---

title: Apparatus and method for using analog circuits to embody non-lipschitz mathematics and properties using attractor and repulsion modes
abstract: A network of coupled neurons for implementing Non-Lipschitz dynamics for modeling nonlinear processes or conditions comprising: a plurality of neurons, each being configurable in attractor and repulsion modes of operation, and programmable by an external signal; a plurality of synaptic connections for connecting at least a portion of the plurality of neurons for passage of data from one neuron to another; feedback circuitry for incrementing and decrementing an analog voltage output depending upon the output of the synaptic connection; whereby by the circuit solves Non-Lipschitz problems by programmably controlling the attractor and repulsion modes. A method of programming a network for solving Non-Lipschitz problems comprising providing a plurality of neurons, each programmable into a plurality of modes including repulsion and attraction modes; interconnecting the plurality of neurons using synaptic connections; providing feedback to at least one of the neurons; whereby by programming the neurons Non-Lipschitz terminal dynamics can be achieved.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266085&OS=08266085&RS=08266085
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08266085
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120206
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

Named after Rudolf Lipschitz the Lipschitz continuity is a form of uniform continuity for functions which are limited to how fast the function can change i.e. for every pair of points in a graph of a function the secant of the line segment defined by the points has an absolute value no greater than a definite real number which is referred to as the Lipschitz Constant.

According to Wikipedia http en.wikipedia.org wiki Lipschitz continuity mathematically a function is called Lipschitz continuous if there exists a real constant K 0 such that for all xand xin X . where K is referred to as a Lipschitz constant for the function . The function is Lipschitz continuous if there exists a constant. K 0 such that for all x x 

With regard to Non Lipschitz mathematics the publication by Michail Zak and Ronald Meyers entitled Non Lipschitz Dynamics Approach to Discrete Event Systems Mathematical Modelling and Scientific Computing An International Journal December 1995 1995 Zak publication presents and discusses a mathematical formalism for simulation of discrete event dynamics DED a special type of man made systems developed for specific information processing purposes. The main objective of the 1995 Zak publication is to demonstrate that the mathematical formalism for DED can be based upon a terminal model of Newtonian dynamics which allows one to relax Lipschitz conditions at some discrete points. A broad class of complex dynamical behaviors can be derived from a simple differential equation as described in the 1995 Zak publication and in Michail Zak Introduction to terminal dynamics 7 59 87 1993 1 sin cos Equation 1A 

In the publication by Michail Zak entitled Terminal Attractors for Addressable Memory in Neural Networks Physics Letters A Vol. 133 Issues 1 2 pages 18 22 Oct. 31 1988 hereby incorporated by reference terminal attractors are introduced for an addressable memory in neural networks operating in continuous time. These attractors represent singular solutions of the dynamical system. They intersect or envelope the families of regular solutions while each regular solution approaches the terminal attractor in a finite time period. According to the author Zak terminal attractors can be incorporated into neural networks such that any desired set of these attractors with prescribed basins is provided by an appropriate selection of the weight matrix.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 544 280 to Hua Kuang Liu et al. 280 patent hereby incorporated by reference discloses a unipolar terminal attractor based neural associative memory TABAM system with adaptive threshold for alleged perfect convergence. It is noted that an associative memory or content addressable memory CAM is a special type of computer memory in which the user inputs a data word and the memory is searched for storage of the data word. If the data word is located in the CAM the CAM returns a list of one or more locations or addresses where the data word is located.

According to the 280 patent one of the major applications of neural networks is in the area of associative memory. The avalanche of intensive research interests in neural networks was initiated by the work of J. J. Hopfield Neural Networks and Physical Systems with Emergent Collective Computational Abilities Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci U.S.A. Vol. 79 p. 2254 258 1982 hereby incorporated by reference . U.S. Pat. No. 4 660 106 in which Hopfield is listed as the inventor hereby incorporated by reference discloses an associative memory modeled with a neural synaptic interconnection matrix and encompasses an interesting computation scheme using recursive nonlinear thresholding. Further investigation reported that the storage capacity of the Hopfield Model is quite limited due to the number of spurious states and oscillations. In order to alleviate the spurious states problems in the Hopfield model the concept of terminal attractors was introduced by M. Zak Terminal Attractors for Addressable Memory in Neural Networks Phys. Lett. Vol. A 133 pp. 18 22 1988 hereby incorporated by reference . However the theory of the terminal attractor based associative neural network model proposed by Zak determines that a new synapse matrix totally different from the Hopfield matrix is needed. This new matrix which is very complex and time consuming to compute was proven to eliminate spurious states increase the speed of convergence and control the basin of attraction. Zak s derivation shows that the Hopfield matrix only works if all the stored states in the network are orthogonal. However since the synapses have changed from those determined by Hebb s law Zak s model is different from the Hopfield model except for the dynamical iteration of the recall process. According to the 280 patent the improvement of the storage capacity of the Hopfield model by the terminal attractor cannot be determined based on Zak s model. The 280 patent discloses a TABAM system which unlike the complex terminal attractor system of Zak supra is not defined by a continuous differential equation and therefore can be readily implemented optically.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 188 964 hereby incorporated by reference purportedly discloses a method for generating residual statics corrections to compensate for surface consistent static time shifts in stacked seismic traces. The method includes a step of framing the residual static corrections as a global optimization problem in a parameter space. A plurality of parameters are introduced in N dimensional space where N is the total number of the sources and receivers. The objective function has a plurality of minimum in the N dimensional space and at least one of the plurality of minimum is a global minimum. An iteration is performed using a computer a plurality of pseudo Lipschitz constants are used to construct a plurality of Pijavski cones to exclude regions on the N dimensional space where the global minimum is unlikely until a global minimum is substantially reached. See Col. 7 lines 1 10. Using described procedures it is reported that a reasonably good estimate of the global maximum may be determined. See Col. 9 Lines 45 51.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is directed to the use of analog VLSI technology to implement non Lipschitz dynamics in networks of coupled neurons for information processing. A component in the analog circuit implementation is an attractor repeller neuron which faithfully approximates the modulated terminal dynamics dot over v s t sgn v t . The attractor repeller neuron may be programmable to become either a terminal attractor or terminal repeller. A preferred embodiment comprises a programmable interconnected network of eight non Lipschitz neurons implemented in analog VLSI as illustrated in . Measurements on the fabricated chip have confirmed the generation of proper terminal dynamics. A circuit board has been developed to interface the chip with instrumentation and to configure the chip in different modes of operation.

The method and network use both terminal attractors and terminal repellers in the construction of an analog circuit to achieve a non Lipschitz dynamics process which can solve important mathematical and physics problems. The analog circuit uses noise in the circuit where the system is near the attractor repeller points to introduce randomness into the branching of the dynamical paths. If the analog circuit were cooled to low temperature or otherwise implemented in a quantum system the noise there would come from quantum effects. Because of the non Lipschitz properties the method can be used to a make neural network analog circuits b improve the speed of circuits and c increase the speed of computer calculations.

A preferred embodiment comprises a network of coupled neurons for implementing Non Lipschitz dynamics for modeling nonlinear processes or conditions comprising a plurality of attractor repeller neurons each of the plurality of neurons being configurable in attractor and repulsion modes of operation the plurality of attractor repeller neurons being programmable by an external control signal a plurality of synaptic connections at least a portion of the plurality of neurons being interconnected by the synaptic connections for passage of data from one neuron to another and feedback circuitry for incrementing and decrementing an analog voltage output depending upon the output of the synaptic connection whereby by the circuit solves Non Lipschitz problems by programably controlling the attractor and repulsion modes of operation.

The invention may be used to solve problems such as the Fokker Plank equation Schr dinger equation and Neural computations.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The paper entitled Non Lipschitz Dynamics Approach to Discrete Event Systems by Michail Zak and Ronald Meyers Mathematical Modelling and Scientific Computing An International Journal December 1995 hereby incorporated by reference presents and discusses a mathematical formalism for simulation discrete event dynamics DED a special type of man made systems to serve specific purposes of information processing. The main objective of this work is to demonstrate that the mathematical formalism for DED can be based upon terminal model of Newtonian dynamics which allows one to relax Lipschitz conditions at some discrete points. A broad class of complex dynamical behaviors can be derived from a simple differential equation as referenced in Zak M Introduction to terminal dynamics 7 59 87 1993 hereby incorporated by reference sin cos Equation 1A 

As follows from Equation 2A two different solutions are possible for almost the same initial conditions. The fundamental property of this result is that the divergence of these solutions from x 0 is characterized by an unbounded parameter U 

The solution Equation 2A and Equation 3A co exist at t 0 and that is possible because at this point the Lipschitz condition fails see Eq. 4A . Since 

Hence the solution performs oscillations with respect to its zero value in such a way that the positive and negative branches of the solution 2A alternate randomly after each period equal to

For convenience for discrete variables y and t the same notations are kept as for their continuous versions.

By change of the variables Equation 13A one can obtain a stochastic process with a prescribed probability distribution 

Actually this process represents a piecewise deterministic Markov process with the correlation time . However by introducing a new variable 

In particular the deterministic part of the process can include a pause it for instance Equation 14A is reduced to the following Equation 17A 

Returning to Equation 1A and assuming that it is driven by a vanishingly small input sin 0 Equation 18A 

From the viewpoint of information processing this input can be considered as a message or an event. This message can be ignored when x 0 or when dot over x 0 but the system is stable i.e. x 2 . . . etc. However it becomes significant during the instants of instability when dot over x 0 at

Actually the event may represent an output of a microsystem which uniquely controls the behavior of the original dynamical system Equation 19A .

Actually the evolution of the probability distribution in Equation 20A is represented by rigid shifts of the initial probability distribution f y 0 unless sgn 0.

The applications of the non Lipschitz dynamics include stochastic model fitting for identification of physical biological and social systems simulation of collective behavior models of neural intelligence as discussed in Zak NI Introduction to terminal dynamics 7 59 87 1993 and Zak M Physical models of cognition 5 1994 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference .

Non Lipschitz coupled dynamics in neural networks offer an attractive computational paradigm for combining neural information processing with chaos complexity and quantum computation as discussed in M. Zak J P Zbilut and R E Meyers Lecture Notes in Physics 49 Springer Verlag 1997 . A fundamental component in the non Lipschitz models is the terminal attractor Equation 22A where the function q v is monotonically decreasing and zero at the origin but with a singularity in the first order derivative. The singularity at the origin allows the state variable v to reach the stable equilibrium point v 0 in finite time and remain there indefinitely.

A terminal repeller is obtained by time reversal of the attractor dynamics Equation 23A with an unstable equilibrium point at the origin. The singularity in the first order derivative now allows the state variable v to escape the equilibrium in finite time even in the absence of noise t . Variable timing in the escape of terminal repellers contribute randomness to an otherwise deterministic system.

For information processing it is desirable to modulate the terminal dynamics of v t with an external signal s t that can switch between terminal attraction and repulsion modes of operation Equation 24A where s t 0 for terminal attraction s t 

The main difficulty in the circuit implementation of non Lipschitz terminal attraction and repulsion lies in precise realization of the singularity of the first order derivative in the state variable. Strictly speaking it is impossible to implement the desired singularity as it would require an amplifier with both infinite gain and infinite bandwidth. A suitable approximation that generates terminal dynamics within the limits of noise in the circuits is desired.

Without loss of generality a binary quantizer element for q v is considered Equation 27A conveniently implemented using a high gain inverting amplifier quantizing the analog voltage v to a digital voltage q. shows the implementation of the terminal attractor using the quantization model Equation 27A . Two complementary MOS differential pairs steer a current of polarity controlled by q into a capacitor on the node v generating the dynamics Equation 22A . The temporal scale of the terminal dynamics is given by the capacitance and the tail currents of the differential pairs set by nMOS and pMOS bias voltages Vand V respectively.

Parasitics on the q node effect a delay in the quantization which could potentially give rise to limit cycle oscillations in v t around the terminal attractor state. The amplitude of these oscillations can be made arbitrarily small by increasing the dominance of the pole corresponding to the v node. This is accomplished by increasing the capacitance on v and decreasing the amplitude of the tail currents. It is also possible to internally compensating the amplifier at the expense of the sharpness of the singularity in the characteristic q v .

The terminal attractor circuit can be modified to implement terminal repulsion by inclusion of an additional inversion stage between the inverting amplifier output and the current steering differential pairs. Terminal repeller comprises subcircuits A also appearing in as shown in . The inversion stages are shown in the terminal repeller of as two additional inverting amplifiers. The reason for using complementary pseudo nMOS and pseudo pMOS structures for inverting amplifiers is to provide hysteresis in the positive feedback dynamical response of q v . The pseudo nMOS amplifier top provides a threshold near the lower supply range and the threshold of the pseudo pMOS amplifier bottom approaches the higher supply.

The delay introduced by the extra stage is not a source of concern as positive feedback excludes the possibility of limit oscillations. More immediately of concern are effects of transistor offset and mismatch in the circuit implementation. These effects can be minimized by reusing the same circuit components for implementing both terminal attraction and repulsion in alternating modes of operation.

The non Lipschitz neuron implements the modulated form Equation 24A and in effect combines both terminal attraction and repulsion circuits of in a single circuit shown in . The modulation signal s t takes one of three levels 1 0 1 supplied in the form of switch control signals R Repel I Inert and A Attract respectively. The signals A and R are complementary set globally by a single R overline A control line and configure the circuit either as the attractor of or the repellor of . Signal I breaks either of the two feedback loops and leaves v in a high impedance inert state.

By using the same quantizer element in all three operation modes it is possible to initialize the node voltage vin attraction mode to the same equilibrium value as in repulsion mode. Switching s t R overline A then turns the equilibrium point from terminally stable to terminally unstable. The hysteresis dead zone of feedback from the output q v in repulsion mode allows to integrate the external neural signal t over time before positive feedback selects a definite direction in the output. For a zero signal component of noise present internally in the circuit will cause the output to randomly decide polarity.

Synaptic connectivity according to Equation 26A is implemented using the current inode circuit cell shown in . The circuit takes a digital input qthat selects between one of two current sources T q 1 and T q 1 to contribute a current Tqonto an integration node x Both current sources are bipolar and are implemented as the difference between positive currents collected on the drain terminals of nMOS A and pMOS transistors A. The nMOS current sinking transistors A are supplied with bias voltages T and T near GND on the gate terminals and similarly the pMOS current sourcing transistors A are supplied with bias voltages T and T near Vdd . The hashmarks shown in indicate that the states qcouple to several x integration nodes in the form of several synapses T. The source terminals are switched by q and rather than gate terminals to avoid switch injection noise during transients and to allow precise control of very small currents as needed to attain large dynamic range in neural integration times.

Referring now to the values for the currents Tmay be determined as follows. T onto nMOS generates a current out of x negative into x when qis logic high. Conversely T onto nMOS A generates a current out of x negative into x when qis logic low T onto pMOS generates a current into x positive into x when qis logic high and T onto pMOS A generates a current into x positive into x when qis logic low. Therefore the network implements the following net current into x integrated onto node in where qtakes values 0 logic low and 1 logic high and is its complement. The constant values for the generated currents T T T T in this model are controlled by the voltages and are exponential in the voltages on these T T T T nodes.

In this regard see G. Cauwenberghs and A. Yariv Fault tolerant dynamic multi level storage in analog VLSI 41 12 827 829 1994 hereinafter Cauwenberghs 94 and G. Cauwenberghs Analog VLSI stochastic perturbative learning architectures 13 1 2 195 209 1997 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The drain terminals of nMOS A and pMOS A transistors connect at an integration node .

The purpose of the generation of currents by A and A is described in Cauwenberghs 94 which describes the implementation of an increment decrement device in contact with a capacitive storage device similar to capacitor in . In this instance qcorrelates to the binary quantization function described in Cauwenberghs 94. The resulting analog voltage function Vis the analog level defining the state of the memory and the size of the partial increments the procedure combines the consecutive steps of binary quantization q R 1 1 and Incremental Refresh Iteration of this procedure yields a stored memory value Vas described further Cauwenberghs 94. This charge pump type of implementation of the increment decrement device in CMOS technology in contact with a capacitive storage device results in fixed charge increments or decrements on. Capacitive storage device by selectively activating one of four supplied constant currents T T T T of sometimes opposite polarity over a fixed time interval.

Further as to the circuit A is replicated once for each source neuron j. The circuit B is replicated for every synapse Tij every pair of source neuron j and destination neuron i . Also appearing in are high gain inverting amplifiers and capacitors .

The neural feedback element is shown in . The current Tqis integrated onto one of the capacitive nodes x and nonlinearly transformed into the output f xi . Control of bias voltages V V and determines the shape of the saturating function x . Alternatively digital on off switching of Vand Vallows one to implement discrete time neural feedback when desired.

The lower part of illustrates an additional two individual coupled neurons that have been implemented on a 2 mm 2 mm chip in 1.2 m CMOS technology. T T T T in the lower block represent synaptic connections T between presynaptic neuron terminals qj and postsynaptic neuron terminals x as defined in where both indices i and j take values 1 and 2 there are two neurons . Each of the two neurons has the feedback element of with input current x connecting to the non Lipschitz element of and the sampler in the bottom of with sampled binary output qand its complement . There are two of these for the two neurons . The Telements are positioned in the top part B of with sampled neural states qand as input and current xas output . There are four of these connecting each neuron to itself and the other neuron.

All cells are fully accessible through external inputs and multiplexed outputs. Timing of terminal dynamics is digitally controlled and synaptic connectivity and neural transfer characteristics are programmable through analog bias voltages. The chip tested fully functional and has been integrated on a PCB board for characterization and experimentation. Example waveforms from one neuron in the chip configured alternatingly in attractor and repulsion modes of operation are shown in . illustrates sample output waveforms of a single neuron configured alternatingly in terminal attraction and repulsion mode. Top waveform of illustrates synaptic integration x t . The central waveform illustrates quantization q t . The bottom waveform of illustrates neural state v t .

As used herein the terminology neuron means an electrically excitable cell or element that processes and transmits information by electrical signals. Each neuron has at least one input and at least one output.

As used herein the terminology attractor relates to elements that provide singular solutions of the dynamical system. They intersect or envelope the families of regular solutions while each regular solution approaches the terminal attractor in a finite time period. The methodology may utilize a closed form of the model to analytically reduce the system dynamics onto a stable invariant manifold onto which empirical data is attracted. According to Wikipedia a trajectory of the dynamical system in the attractor does not have to satisfy any special constraints except for remaining on the attractor. The trajectory may be periodic or chaotic. If a set of points is periodic or chaotic but the flow in the neighborhood is away from the set the set is not an attractor but instead is called a repeller or repellor .

As used herein Tij represents interconnections between the neurons. Iterative adjustments of Tij may be a result of comparison of the net output with known correct answers supervised learning or as a result of creating new categories from the correlations of input data when the correct answers are not known unsupervised learning .

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

