---

title: Ensemble having one or more computing systems and a controller thereof
abstract: An integrated hybrid system is provided. The hybrid system includes compute components of different types and architectures that are integrated and managed by a single point of control to provide federation and the presentation of the compute components as a single logical computing platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984115&OS=08984115&RS=08984115
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08984115
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121120
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. Ser. No. 12 938 332 entitled ENSEMBLE HAVING ONE OR MORE COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND A CONTROLLER THEREOF filed Nov. 2 2010 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

There are many types of computing systems each having its own set of features capabilities and advantages. As examples there are general purpose systems optimized for a broad set of applications or components and special purpose systems and accelerators optimized for a specific set of applications or components. Each type of system is defined in part by the instruction set architecture that it implements and each is distinct from the others.

The general purpose systems may include for instance mainframe computers able to provide high end high availability reliable services and or modular systems e.g. blades of a blade center chassis and the special purpose systems may include co processors or blades of a blade center chassis able to efficiently perform specific tasks. Each system manages its workload in its own individual manner and is separately responsible for performing requested services. Typically each of the systems introduces its own specific administration model resulting in system specific management tooling forming separate and distinct management silos.

The different system architectures are used to serve the disparate needs of the applications. Even for one application e.g. a banking application an online reservation application etc. multiple disparate systems may be used resulting in higher complexity and cost.

Integration of various types of computing systems into a hybrid computing system is provided in one or more aspects of the present invention. In one example physical and logical integration as well as an advanced systems management function aimed at providing federation over the distinct elements of the processing system are provided.

The shortcomings of the prior art are overcome and additional advantages are provided through the provision of a method of providing an ensemble. The method includes for instance coupling a plurality of heterogeneous computing systems as an ensemble wherein one computing system of the plurality of heterogeneous computing systems has one system architecture and another computing system of the plurality of heterogeneous computing systems has another system architecture different from the one system architecture and defining a management domain that provides a boundary for the ensemble the management domain managing resources across the plurality of heterogeneous computing systems.

Systems and program products relating to one or more aspects of the present invention are also described and may be claimed herein. Further services relating to one or more aspects of the present invention are also described and may be claimed herein.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention.

In accordance with one or more aspects of the present invention an integrated hybrid computing system is provided. The hybrid system includes compute components a.k.a. elements of different types and architectures that are integrated and managed by a single point of control to provide federation and the presentation of the compute components as a single logical computing platform. In one particular example the single logical computing platform is the z Enterprise system offered by International Business Machines Corporation.

In one example the hybrid system includes a management function that integrates monitors and controls the heterogeneous compute resources as a single logical virtualized system. In one aspect it optimizes the use of the compute resources in accordance with specified business service level objectives associated with business service workloads. The management provides dynamic provisioning and deployment of virtualized server network and storage resources in a service optimized compute platform.

As one example the hybrid system is dynamic and workload optimized and in addition to the management includes special purpose workload accelerators and optimizers and optionally general purpose blades of a blade extension. The workload accelerators and optimizers extend and accelerate business service workloads such as business service workloads running on a System z system offered by International Business Machines Corporation. System z is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. Other names used herein may be registered trademarks trademarks or product names of International Business Machines Corporation or other companies.

The blades incorporate additional compute components to host applications on their native processor architectures to consolidate and manage a multiple tier heterogeneous compute resources with reduced complexity and lower cost and to enable better integration with transaction processing messaging and data serving capabilities of a particular system such as System z .

One example of a hybrid system is described with reference to . As shown in one example a hybrid system includes a processing system and a blade extension both of which are managed and controlled by a Unified Resource Manager URM . The hybrid system is an integration of the processing system and the blade extension such that the components although heterogeneous are federated and logically integrated by a single point of control under a single administrative and management model e.g. the model of the z Enterprise system .

Processing system is for instance a zEnterprise 196 z196 system offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. It is optimized to host large scale database transaction and mission critical applications. As depicted in it includes for instance one or more processors CPUs one or more of which execute an operating system such as the z OS operating system offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. memory and one or more I O devices interfaces coupled to one another via one or more buses . A hybrid system may include one or more processing systems and each processing system may have the same or different components than another processing system.

Blade extension includes one or more blade center racks and each rack has one or more blade center chassis e.g. a BladeCenter H Chassis offered by International Business Machines Corporation . Each chassis is a physical structure into which one or more blades e.g. up to 14 blades per chassis are plugged and each provides certain management functions for its blades. In one example blade extension includes at least one chassis having POWER7 blades and System x blades both of which are offered by International Business Machines Corporation and together enable execution of AIX Linux and Windows applications as examples. BladeCenter z OS System x and AIX are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The chassis further includes high performance optimizers and special purpose appliances used to extend the function of the system improve performance and reduce the cost of running and managing the business service workloads. In one example the blade extension is a zEnterprise Blade Center Extension zBX offered by International Business Machines Corporation. Further details regarding components of blade extension are described with reference to .

Referring to one rack of blade extension is described. In this example blade center rack includes top of rack network switches e.g. ethernet network switches including for instance a management network switch having one or more management network ports and a data network switch having one or more data network ports described more fully below one or more blade center chassis each having one or more removable blades installed therein e.g. up to 14 blades per chassis an advanced management module AMM for each chassis and one or more switch modules including for instance an ethernet switch module ESM and a fibre channel switch module one or more ethernet cables A coupling the management network ports to AMM and switch modules and coupling the data network ports to switch modules one or more fibre channel cables for connecting externally to for instance a storage area network SAN one or more power distribution units PDUs and other optional components including for instance a heat exchanger power cords etc. Many of the blade center rack components are described in further detail below. Further a rack may have more less or different components than described herein and one rack may be the same as or different from another rack.

In one example a blade of blade center chassis may be for instance a POWER blade or a System x blade and on a blade are processor memory and I O resources of a particular architecture. In one example the blade may be used as a general purpose host for customer application software running in a virtualized environment and as other examples a blade may be used to provide a special purpose workload optimizer or accelerator such as the Smart Analytics Optimizer SAO or DataPower appliance offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y.. The customer selects the role that each of the blades play. Once installed however it is managed under a single point of control e.g. System z Unified Resource Manager firmware described herein . Power and DataPower are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation.

Further details regarding a general purpose engine blade such as a POWER blade are described with reference to . In this example blade includes a hypervisor and one or more virtual servers . Hypervisor is for instance a POWER hypervisor pHYP and includes firmware that runs on the blade. The hypervisor is delivered and managed as firmware e.g. System z firmware and installed on the blade for the customer. Thus it is loaded without any direct customer responsibility for installation service or configuration i.e. the process is automated and the customer does not need the installation media or to perform steps to e.g. install the hypervisor .

Additionally the blade includes a virtual partition that executes a virtual I O server VIOS . Physically VIOS is a virtual server hosted on the blade and virtualized by the hypervisor. However in accordance with an aspect of the present invention firmware of the controlling architecture e.g. System z Unified Resource Manager firmware is installed within the VIOS to allow monitoring and management of the hypervisor and blade by the Unified Resource Manager agent described below is an example of such firmware .

Each virtual server executes for instance an AIX operating system and included as part of the operating system is a Unified Resource Manager agent . In one example agent is a guest platform management provider which is a set of firmware code delivered as part of the Unified Resource Manager. For instance the agent is deployed as an installation CD DVD image from the support element onto the blade and then the guests mount this CD DVD image in a virtual drive to allow the agents to be installed by the guest operating system into their image. These agents have a connection to another agent located in the VIOS referred to as a hypervisor performance manager. Agent is then connected to the management network of the hybrid computing system which is described below. Thus the support element of the processing system described below is able to communicate with the VIOS which is considered part of the hypervisor running on the blade. Using this communication path the support element has to agent in the VIOS and the connection between agent and agent installed in the virtual server the support element is also able to indirectly communicate with agent in the virtual server.

Returning to processing system and blade extension are managed by Unified Resource Manager URM which provides federation management and control of the diverse resources within the hybrid system. It includes firmware that is installed on the processing system and the blade extension and possibly in other controllers if used. It includes the firmware that is installed on the hardware management console and support element i.e. the firmware that runs on those elements is considered part of URM . It is used to logically integrate and manage the hypervisors of the various systems as well as to integrate and manage the workload optimizer and accelerators that may also be present in the blade extension. It provides platform hardware and workload aware resource management. Firmware as defined herein includes e.g. the microcode millicode and or macrocode delivered with and hosted in any component of the system. It includes for instance management function delivered as a integral part of a support element described below and as an integral part of a hardware management console described below as well a management function delivered and installed by the support element and the hardware management console on the blades. Any function or programming that is installed onto the blades e.g. hypervisor agents control function etc. by the support element is firmware.

The Unified Resource Manager provides for instance workload based resource allocation and provisioning for the hybrid system. It provides physical and virtual server network and storage resource management. It is a service goal oriented resource manager optimizing the use of the resources in accordance with for instance a user supplied availability performance energy and or security management policy. It provides ensemble network and storage management configuration management for the hardware firmware operation controls for the hardware firmware and service and support for the hardware firmware. In one particular example the firmware of the Unified Resource Manager is zEnterprise or System z firmware allowing the URM to provide goal oriented quality of service optimization for the resources used in the service of the business applications hosted on the hybrid system.

Further details regarding hybrid system are described with reference to . In this example hybrid system includes processing system coupled to blade extension via a private data network IEDN and a management network each of which is described below. Processing system includes for instance one or more central processing units e.g. z CPUs memory and input output devices interfaces . The one or more central processing units execute a plurality of operating systems including z OS and Linux as examples. Further processing system includes a plurality of hypervisors including z VM which manages the virtual servers running within a single logical partition and executing Linux operating systems in this example and PR SM which is firmware based and manages logical partitions LPARs which are virtual servers running as first level virtual servers and executing z OS operating systems in this example. PR SM and z VM are offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y. and are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. In one example processing system is a zEnterprise z196 System a.k.a. a zEnterprise node offered by International Business Machines Corporation Armonk N.Y..

Processing system also includes a support element SE that is used in managing the hybrid system and storing state for the system. The support element has the responsibility for for instance knowing dependencies within the hybrid system the various component levels across the system updating the system etc. It uses a management network described below to deliver firmware updates to ensure the dependencies and co requisites for the firmware being applied is compatible and to drive the mechanisms through the management network to perform the updates understanding that the firmware may be in multiple parts of the hybrid system. In one example support element includes an operating system runtime code and one or more services e.g. monitoring as well as others .

Blade extension includes one or more blade center chassis and each chassis includes a plurality of blades dedicated to specific purposes. For instance in this particular example there are x86 blades running the Linux operating system and virtualized by a xHYP hypervisor POWER blades running the AIX operating system and virtualized by a pHYP hypervisor e.g. Power VM offered by International Business Machines Corporation as well as other specialty blades such as a Smart Analytics Optimizer ISAO and others e.g. High Performance Computing HPC DataPower DP . The blades described herein are just examples there may be more less and or different blades without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

When the blades are plugged into the chassis a management component located within the blade center chassis referred to as the Advanced Management Module AMM learns of their identities and addresses. For example the AMM discovers the information by executing a routine to obtain the information or it is provided the information responsive to the blades being added. The AMM is a set of functions that provide a hardware management interface for the blade based resources that are located within a blade center chassis. The AMM is the path through the blade hardware used to perform hardware operational controls and to obtain access to hardware diagnostic data service data. It is used for instance to power the blades on off etc. It is configured such that only the Unified Resource Manager firmware communicates with the AMM. As shown in there is a management connection between AMM and support element . Further details regarding support element are described with reference to .

As shown in support element includes a plurality of components including for instance a console one or more graphical user interfaces one or more tasks running thereon and storage . Storage includes the firmware for the system including the firmware for the various hypervisors e.g. PR SM z VM pHYP and xHYP the processors e.g. i390 communications e.g. FICON OSA management e.g. AMM and the optimizers accelerators e.g. iSAO Smart Analytics Optimizer HPC High Performance Computing DP DataPower in this particular example. The management and control functions of the support element are in one embodiment implemented via programming that is delivered as System z firmware. That is in this embodiment the support element function is delivered as hardware and firmware and not customer installed or managed software.

The support element is communicatively coupled to the AMM via a distinct management network and thus the support element and AMM communicate with one another to have certain tasks performed. For instance when a hardware management task is to be directed to a blade in accordance with an aspect of the present invention it is forwarded from the support element over the management network described more fully below to the AMM which performs the task. For instance if a particular blade is to be turned on a user selects from the user console on the support element the blade to be turned on the support element informs the AMM via the management network that the blade is to be turned on and then the AMM turns on the blade in a standard manner. A response may then be sent from the AMM back to the support element over the management network indicating the status e.g. success failure of the power on command. In another embodiment the user console is on a hardware management console described below coupled to the support element. 

The same network and logic may be used to communicate with the AMM to perform other tasks such as monitoring the capabilities or performance of the hardware e.g. how much energy is it using how hot is it is it working correctly is it recording failures etc. and or to receive alerts.

In this particular example hybrid system also includes a hardware management console HMC . A shown in HMC is coupled to support element via an external management network described below. In one example the HMC is part of a multi tiered structure in which the HMC pushes control down to a second tier that includes the support element and then the support element takes responsibility for the resources at a node level and pushes control down on those resources within that node. The HMC may be used in a single system a hybrid system or for instance to integrate a plurality of hybrid systems into an ensemble as shown in .

As depicted in in one particular example an ensemble includes a plurality of hybrid systems managed by HMC . In one particular example ensemble is a zEnterprise ensemble and the hybrid systems are zEnterprise nodes managed as a single virtualized pool of server resources. In this particular example each zEnterprise node includes a hybrid system having a single z196 CEC with an attached zBX containing 1 to 4 racks with up to 2 blade center chassis per rack. The ensemble includes integrated advanced virtualization management virtual resource management and optimization and implements a well defined external interface to data center service management functions. In a further example the ensemble may include one or more nodes even all that are not hybrid systems e.g. no racks but instead just processing systems as examples.

Further details regarding one embodiment of HMC are described with reference to . In one example HMC is delivered as hardware and firmware e.g. System z firmware and not customer installed or managed software. It is in one particular example a zHMC platform management appliance which includes for instance an external management application programming interface API used for monitoring events inventory management operational control configuration etc. various services generally including interfaces controls management etc. and an operating system e.g. Linux . As examples services include a console user interface hardware operational control firmware update problem management capacity upgrade management backup and restore hypervisor management resource monitoring ensemble membership virtual server operational control ensemble network management ensemble storage management placement advisor energy management performance management availability management guest relocation isolation management resource model runtime services and runtime code e.g. JAVA .

In one example external management API provides a programmatic interface to other management applications acting as a management access point. This management access point provides for instance 

Although the above describes examples for z Enterprise one or more aspects of the present invention are not limited to such a platform or architecture.

As previously mentioned in accordance with one or more aspects of the present invention there are a plurality of networks within the hybrid system including for instance a management network and a data network. The management network provides connections to components enabling the components to be managed by firmware i.e. System z firmware and is not accessible by customer deployed software hosted in the hybrid system. The data network however is accessible and intended for use by customer deployed software hosted on the hybrid system. The physical networks are largely pre configured and pre wired. For the data network a secure private high speed ethernet network is provided that is standard in how it is used by the customer deployed software but not standard in how it is managed and controlled i.e. it is managed and controlled by URM firmware and not customer network management tools . In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the management network and data network are managed by the Unified Resource Management firmware. The management and data networks are dedicated and physically isolated so that they are protected serviced and managed by the firmware e.g. System z firmware . The management network connects the physical and virtual hardware together enabling the URM to manage the diverse compute components of the hybrid system as one logical entity. Further details regarding the management network and the data network as well as other networks of the hybrid system are described with reference to .

Referring to a management network also referred to herein as the intra node management network includes connections from support element e.g. through a bulk power hub BPH within processing system which acts like an Ethernet switch to other components e.g. virtual servers within processing system as well as components e.g. virtual servers optimizers appliances in blade extension see dotted line . This management network is owned and controlled by the firmware. It is not accessible by the customer deployed software. Included on the management network are other processors such as Flexible Service Processors FSPs and an advanced management module AMM .

The data network also referred to herein as an intra ensemble data network IEDN connects for instance components e.g. virtual servers within processing system with components e.g. virtual servers appliances optimizers of blade extension . Further in other examples it connects processing systems to other processing systems and blades to other blades. The fabric physically allows for connectivity between any processing systems and blades to any other processing systems and blades. This network is ensemble wide in which the ensemble includes for instance a plurality of hybrid systems and the network is used for customer data.

In addition to the intra node management network and the intra ensemble data network in one embodiment there is an external network providing external connections from components of processing system and blade extension and an external management network that connects HMC to the support elements of the ensemble. Further details regarding various connections of the networks are described below.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there are separate isolated physical networks for the intra node management network and the intra node data network. Each separate network includes for instance switches adapters Network Interface Cards NICs cables etc. In this example these two networks are two distinct and isolated physical networks.

As one example as shown in in blade center rack there are top of rack TOR switches including for instance a management network switch having one or more management ports and a data network switch having one or more data ports . As an example the TOR switch that includes the management ports is a 1 Gigabyte switch and the TOR switch that includes the data ports is a 10 Gigabyte switch. In another embodiment one switch includes both the management ports and the data ports further there may be multiple switches for redundancy. Similarly the Ethernet Switch Module ESM also includes management ports and data ports . The management ports are used for the management network and the data ports are used for customer applications.

In one example for the management network one management port is connected to a port in AMM one management port is connected to a management port in ESM and another management port is connected to processing system . In other examples multiple connections between the aforementioned ports may be provided for redundancy. In one particular example a management port is connected to a port in a bulk power hub BPH which is connected to a port in support element of the processing system. Further in the processing system there are one or more ports of one or more network adapters e.g. an Open Systems Adapters OSA designated for the management network referred to as OSA M ports which are connected to a management port in the BPH to enable the processing system e.g. CEC to be connected on the management network to the local support element. Logical partitions or systems on the processing system gain access to the management network through OSA M. These connections are pre configured.

In a further example for the data network the processing system also includes one or more designated OSA X ports of one or more OSA adapters used to provide network connectivity for the customer deployed software. These ports are part of the IEDN used by customers. The OSA X ports unlike the OSA M management ports do not flow through the BPH. Further the support element is not on the IEDN. The OSA X ports are isolated from the traditional general purpose network connections.

In the blade center rack in one example the data network switches are physically different and isolated from the management network switches. In one example OSA X is connected to data ports of the Top Of Rack switches in the rack. Further data ports are coupled to data ports . Through appropriate configuration of the hypervisors by the URM firmware these data ports are further connected to a virtual switch in the hypervisor on a blade thereby connecting the virtual server guests on the blade.

The IEDN provides physical any to any connectivity across any blade and any processor in the ensemble. The data network switches e.g. the 10 Gigabyte TOR switches have ports to connect to multiple processing systems as well as to other Top of Rack Switches. The URM then provides the means to provision virtual LAN segments over this physical IEDN network.

The physical configuration of the networks and the pre configuring and pre wiring of the physical connections removes the responsibility from the user of configuring the physical networks cabling assigning port numbers etc.

In addition to the above in one embodiment each top of rack switch includes a management control port which is used to configure its associated TOR switch e.g. on off available for management data etc. . The control port is connected to the management network and part of the function of the Unified Resource Manager is to interact with the physical TOR switch over the control port and to configure it. Part of the function of the URM is to be the exclusive manager of the control ports of the TOR switches.

In further embodiments there may be multiple TOR switches AMMs and ESMs and or other switches components for redundancy.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention configuration state of the hybrid system is maintained in storage of support element . In particular the support element has an understanding of the resource inventory of the hybrid system. Thus in one example responsive to a blade center chassis being installed and in particular the AMM of that blade center chassis certain hardware discovery is performed by the support element. One example of this discovery is described with reference to .

Referring to responsive to a customer engineer installing a blade center chassis and the advanced management module for that chassis a reset of the AMM is initiated either manually by the engineer or programmatically STEP . The reset initializes the AMM to its default state. In this default state an initial pre defined default userid and password may be used to log into a secure shell SSH session on the AMM to make management task requests and to initiate the configuration of default network addressing.

The support element learns of the installation of the AMM via for instance a broadcast from the AMM over the management network STEP . For instance the support element uses the service location protocol SLP to listen over the management network for the broadcast. Responsive to learning of the installation the support element begins to interact with the AMM using a command line interface STEP . This interaction includes establishing SSH sessions and reconfiguring the AMM so that access to its management functions is prevented from any component other than the support element. In other words the default security context for the AMM is replaced to ensure access only from the authorized support element to ensure the support element has exclusive control over the configuration of the AMM STEP .

Additionally the support element establishes Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP support on the AMM in order for the support element to be an SNMP trap listener to learn of other installations e.g. of blades etc. STEP .

Thereafter through AMM commands the support element inventories the blades that are plugged into the blade extension STEP and this information is provided to the support element STEP .

In one example prior to a blade being made available for use in a blade extension an entitlement process is performed to determine whether there is authorization to use the blade. One example of this process is described with reference to . Initially a blade is added to the chassis which causes SNMP notifications to be sent to the support element and this notification makes the support element aware of the newly inserted blade STEP . Responsive to these notifications the support element records information about the newly inserted blade in its inventory of blades but denotes that the blade is not yet available for use because the entitlement process authorizing its use has not yet been completed STEP . Thereafter to authorize the blade for use an inventory of the available but not yet authorized blades is displayed on the console for the support element STEP and the customer selects the newly added blade that should be entitled for use STEP .

Thereafter a determination is made as to whether the blade is entitled to be made available for use INQUIRY . For instance in one particular example a customer pays for a particular number of blades to be managed under control of the Unified Resource Manager. So a decision is made as to whether the customer has exceeded the paid for allocation. If so a report such as an error report is provided to the customer STEP . Otherwise the blade is entitled to be used. There may be additional or different tests for entitlement. The support element then accepts the blade as entitled and initiates the process to configure the blade and to deploy the required Unified Resource Manager firmware on the blade which may include the deployment and initialization of a hypervisor STEP .

In one particular example a portion of the firmware to be installed is a hypervisor on the blade. In accordance with an aspect of the present invention the hypervisors to be used are shipped with the hybrid system and stored on storage associated with the support element. Thus the customers are relieved of the explicit responsibility for installing the hypervisors.

One embodiment of the logic used to install a hypervisor on a blade is described with reference to . Initially the AMM of the blade center chassis containing the blade on which the hypervisor is to be installed obtains an indication from the support element that the hypervisor installation boot image for the hypervisor is to be obtained from the support element STEP . Then a command is sent from the support element to the AMM in the blade center chassis informing the AMM to initiate a boot of the hypervisor installation boot image from the support element by the selected blade STEP . The hypervisor installation image begins to boot STEP . This boot step begins the execution of the hypervisor installation process on the blade which transfers the hypervisor installation image from the hard disk of the support element onto the local storage resident on the blade STEP . At the completion of this process the hypervisor is now installed on the local storage of the blade and can be booted from that storage by the Unified Resource Manager upon subsequent activation of the blade.

The supplying of the hypervisors from the support element provides encapsulation in that the support element supplies the firmware and other code that is to run natively on the blades. The support element is thus able to exclusively control the configuration e.g. paging etc. function and operation of the blade. A pre selected set of configuration decisions have been included with the firmware relieving the customer from making those decisions. Further the hypervisor is configured so that it only directly communicates across the management network. The hypervisor is configured so that it accepts management orders only from the support element that is connected to the management network.

Subsequent to installing the hypervisor virtual servers may be provisioned thereon to enable customer work to be performed. A virtual server is comprised of an allocation of the required physical server resources including for instance a number of CPUs dedicated versus shared memory and I O and network resources. To deploy a virtual server a description of the virtual server resources is used by the Unified Resource Manager to create a virtual server on a specific hypervisor allocating the required platform resources. A bootable software disk image is copied to the storage resources bound to the virtual server and the virtual server is started from the bootable disk image.

Examples of virtual servers are depicted in . As shown in one example a virtual server hosts an operating system as well as various software . The description of the virtual server composition is stored on disk . Resource optimization and virtual server mobility is provided as indicated by the arrow . Virtual server resource allocations may be dynamically adjusted allowing unallocated resources to be used by a virtual server and allowing resource allocation adjustments to be made between virtual servers. Virtual server mobility between hypervisors is also provided in which resources are allocated on the target hypervisor the virtual server in memory state is moved to the target hypervisor and the resources on the source hypervisor are deallocated.

Further details regarding deploying and instantiating a virtual server are described with reference to . By using the procedure described herein the integrity and security of the system is maintained since the customer is not allowed to make choices that are any more granular than the management model being followed or that violate security boundaries set up by the management model.

Initially a customer selects the characteristics of the virtual server that is to be instantiated STEP . In one example a wizard type interface at the hardware management console is used by the customer to indicate the characteristics. In other embodiments programmatic interfaces of the HMC or user interfaces at the support elements may be used. The characteristics include for instance the number of processors the virtual server is to have an amount of memory for the virtual server one or more available storage devices to be connected to the virtual server a virtual local area network VLAN it is to have access to in terms of networking and the hypervisor to host the virtual server. In another embodiment the hypervisor is not selected but instead the system dynamically selects it for the customer. This is also true for one or more other characteristics. Further in another embodiment the virtual server may have access to one or more VLANs. 

The hardware management console has a view of the computing environment e.g. the aggregation of one or more hybrid systems of the ensemble and understands the configuration of the computing environment including the physical resources e.g. machines blades network resources etc. and understands the network connections as well as the storage devices accessible to the computing environment. The hardware management console has connectivity to the support element via external management network and understands that relationship and understands that the support element has secure management connectivity via management network to the blade on which the virtual server is to be deployed. Therefore the hardware management console informs the support element of the selected characteristics STEP . The support element and in particular the Unified Resource Manager of the support element uses the management network and directs the indicated hypervisor to perform a configuration step that results in the manifestation of the virtual server on that hypervisor STEP .

After defining the virtual server user interfaces are provided on the hardware management console to allow the customer to select the VLAN or VLANs to be associated with the virtual server STEP . Responsive to the selections made by the customer the Unified Resource Manager function of the support element is informed of the customer choice and in response uses the management network to cause the hypervisor to associate the virtual server with the chosen VLAN or VLANs STEP . A VLAN results from virtualizing a physical protocol layer of a networking stack. For example physical layer is virtualized to obtain a plurality of VLANs which provide isolation over the physical layer. Thus each set of data that comes through the network carries with it a context indicating which VLAN it is associated with and the ports of either a physical or virtual switch are configured to either allow the data or not based on the VLAN tag in the VLAN context.

In one particular example based on the indication the customer makes on the hardware management console as to the VLAN to be associated with the virtual server the Unified Resource Manager directs the hypervisor to configure the virtual switch of that hypervisor to allow that virtual server to access that VLAN and no others. In another embodiment the Unified Resource Manager communicates with the physical switches of the top of racks and Ethernet switch modules to limit the virtual server access to the VLAN. In one embodiment the URM is the authoritative control point that establishes the connection to the VLAN thereby providing the mechanism for the user to be explicit about which virtual servers are connected to which VLANs.

VLANs can be dynamically created on the physical fibre. Because the Unified Resource Manager is the single control point through which VLANs of the Intra Ensemble Data Network are created and access to them is permitted and such is done by URM only after explicit customer selection the customer is ensured that only virtual servers in the environment that have been specifically enabled to connect to certain VLANs are connected to those VLANs.

In addition to associating the virtual server with a VLAN storage is bound to the virtual server STEP . For example a set of tasks are provided in the hardware management console that enables the customer to select the storage to be bound to the virtual server. In one example the storage is external storage typically in a storage area network SAN which is connected via fibre channels.

In one example pertaining to POWER blades storage access is virtualized. Thus there are virtual SCSI adapters and I O is directed to the virtual I O server VIOS partition of the blade. The virtual I O server then mediates the sharing of the physical adapter across the virtual servers. For instance each blade has a physical fibre channel adapter. Further there are fibre channel ports on the fibre channel switch module in the chassis which are connected to the fibre channel adapter. In one example the fibre channel ports on the fibre channel switch module are connected to storage controllers and devices in the customer s storage area network. The customer performs various controls such as zoning and masking to set up which hypervisors are to access which storage devices in the storage area network. Then the Unified Resource Manager discovers the set up or is provided an indication of which hypervisors have access to which storage devices. The Unified Resource Manager provides this information to the customer when the virtual server is being deployed and based on this information allows the customer to select which devices are to be associated with the virtual server. It then configures the VIOS function of the hypervisor to allow access to the storage in the selected manner.

In one example the configuration information of the virtual server including information regarding the processor memory network and storage requirements of the virtual server is retained on the support element and not on the hypervisor. Further the virtual server is not configured until the time at which the customer actually starts the virtual server. By storing the configuration information at the support element and not the hypervisor the hypervisor is stateless. Thus the hypervisor does not have any authoritative information on it so it is easier to perform upgrades and or other maintenance since authoritative information that might have otherwise been stored on the hypervisor does not need to be saved and restored as part of the maintenance.

In addition to virtual servers on the blades there are virtual servers on the processing system. For instance processing system may include one or more logical partitions one of which is depicted in . In this particular example this logical partition includes a z VM hypervisor that hosts a plurality of virtual servers . Within the z VM hypervisor there are one or more service virtual servers including for instance a system management API server which is a virtual server that provides a management interface to z VM and a server that hosts a hypervisor performance management agent. Virtual network connectivity is provided to the virtual servers via a plurality of virtual switches to one or more OSA adapters. In particular virtual switch is coupled to a management port of an OSA adapter for management functions and virtual switch is coupled to a data port of an OSA adapter for data.

Also shown in are various network connections including management network agent to agent connections one or more virtual server to virtual switch connections to the data network a connection from virtual switch to OSA M and a connection from virtual switch to OSA X .

The installing of the hypervisors and creating new virtual servers are just two operations controlled by the Unified Resource Manager of the support element. In accordance with an aspect of the present invention many other operations may be controlled including monitoring such as monitoring of resource usage energy usage e.g. power save power capping etc. performance management configuration etc. One embodiment of the logic employed to control one or more operations is described with reference to .

Initially the Unified Resource Manager of the support element sends a command for an operation to be performed to a compute component of the hybrid system e.g. AMM hypervisor via the management network STEP . The compute component receives the command STEP . The particular compute component to receive the command depends on the particular operation to be performed. For instance if the operation is creating a new virtual server or performing a certain monitoring operation then the hypervisor on which the virtual server is being deployed receives the command however if the operation is starting a blade or a particular monitoring operation e.g. SNMP monitoring then the advanced management module AMM of the blade center chassis receives the command. Other examples are also possible. The compute component then performs the command for the particular operation being performed STEP and the support element receives the response to the command via the management network. If there are additional commands to be processed then the above logic is repeated.

In a further aspect of the present invention goal oriented concepts have been applied to the hypervisors. In particular a policy is applied to a workload which includes a plurality of virtual servers supporting a particular application e.g. business function . Then if the particular policy of the workload is not being met one or more resources managed by the hypervisor such as CPU resources are dynamically adjusted in order to meet that policy. One embodiment of the logic associated with workload awareness is described with reference to .

Initially a workload is defined which includes selecting the virtual servers that are to support the application and assigning the virtual servers to the workload and a policy is assigned to the workload STEP . In one example the policy is a performance policy defining one or more goals for managing how the hypervisor manages resources of the virtual servers of the workload. Thereafter monitoring is performed to enable the system administrators to understand whether the objectives for the virtual servers in the workload are being achieved STEP . In particular the Unified Resource Manager collects data from the hypervisors and the agents running within the virtual servers. The information is collected and aggregated at the support element.

Based on the information gathered in the monitoring the hypervisors may decide to readjust resources to meet the policy that was provided for the workload STEP . In particular in one example it is the individual hypervisors and in particular the HPM agent within the hypervisors e.g. agent in the VIOS partition of a POWER blade and or HPM running on a z VM hypervisor in a logical partition that readjusts the resources to meet a given policy e.g. take CPU resources from one or more virtual servers and give them to another virtual server hosted on the same hypervisor other examples are also possible .

In a further aspect of the present invention the collected data is provided to the HMC upon request as further described with reference to . Initially the data is collected at the support element from the hypervisors STEP . The support element aggregates data for the hybrid system it is managing and forwards summary data to the HMC. The HMC uses the summary data to build an ensemble wide view of the data. When a monitoring report is requested on the HMC for detailed data for a specific hybrid system the HMC requests that data from the support element managing that hybrid system. In response to this request the support element forwards the data to the HMC. Thus a determination is made as to whether a request has been made for a detailed report INQUIRY . If not the data continues to be collected and aggregated STEP . Otherwise if a detailed report has been requested then the data is forwarded from the support element to the HMC STEP . Thereafter the data continues to be collected by the support element.

In one embodiment the HMC instead of the support elements maintains certain state relating to the workload particularly the definition of the workload. It also maintains ether exclusively or in addition to the support elements performance objectives for the workloads and the relative attainment of those objectives by the virtual server of the workloads.

Workloads may be managed across an ensemble. The control point for that ensemble is the HMC which may direct other components to perform certain actions to meet the objectives of the HMC. Management state and tasks scoped to the systems of the ensemble are maintained at performed by and or directed by the HMC.

The HMC has the authoritative state of the data network used by the ensemble. It maintains the information indicating which virtual servers are connected to which VLANs and which VLANs are available. It understands and has an overall view of the physical and virtual resources of the ensemble as well as the storage accessible to the hypervisors and virtual servers.

Platform management component responsible for goal oriented resource monitoring management and reporting across an ensemble 

Described in detail above is an integrated hybrid system that logically integrates a plurality of heterogeneous systems and presents the integrated system as one system to a customer. Therefore even if a portion of a customer s application runs on one architecture e.g. the z Architecture and another portion on one or more other architectures e.g. POWER X etc. from the customer s perspective it is running on a single system with a consistent hardware configuration operation and management approach and information regarding the application is presented based on the whole application.

In one example the hybrid system is viewed as a single consistent hardware platform e.g. System z having different types of systems e.g. z Architecture POWER x86 etc. therein. The hardware is used to provide a single virtualized system.

In accordance with one or more aspects of the present invention a dynamic integrated workload optimized hybrid system is provided that offers for instance 

In one or more aspects of the present invention an integrated system is provided in which compute components of the system are controlled from a single point of control. The single point of control is attached to a management network and adheres to a management model of a selected architecture of the system although the integrated system may include a plurality of different system architectures . The management network is configured and controlled by the single point of control of the integrated system such that it represents a trusted path by which management commands can be presented to all other compute components of the system. The controls of the management network include controlling what is attached to it so that other compute components such as management modules can authoritatively be controlled by the single point of control.

A unified resource manager attached to the management network provides the single point of control for the integrated system or other computing environment . The unified resource manager adheres to a management model of a particular architecture and is able to send commands to the compute components of the system whether of the same architecture or not. These commands direct the performance of operations by the specific compute components. The operations include for instance configuration and management operations including for instance loading a hypervisor on a computing system creating a virtual server performing monitoring controlling energy used by the system as well as others.

In one example the configuration includes physically replacing a blade of a blade center chassis with another blade. In such an instance subsequent to replacing the blade the blade is updated to install a hypervisor and state is used that is stored on a component that is different from the blade and of a different architecture than the blade. The hypervisor in this case is considered stateless. In one example the hypervisor is on a blade of the blade center chassis and it only communicates for management functions via the management network.

In a further aspect of the present invention an ensemble is provided that has one or more computing systems and a controller thereof. The ensemble includes a hardware management console HMC that understands the resources of the ensemble. It manages for instance the data network including for instance understanding which virtual servers are connected to which virtual LANs and which VLANs are available and having an overall view of all the physical and virtual resources of the ensemble and storage accessible by the hypervisors and virtual servers of the ensemble. It also understands the workloads of the ensemble which includes one or more virtual servers supporting an application and maintains a definition of the workloads. It also includes state related to performance objectives for the workloads and the relative attainment or not of the objectives of each of the components. The HMC is the control point for the ensemble and other components have the responsibility of carrying out the commands and or objectives of the HMC. The HMC introduces management functions and state of the ensemble based on the fact that an ensemble exists.

In one aspect a data network is provided. The data network includes a set of physical adapters and switches logical or network switching functions and controls. Configuration of the components to provide a data network is exclusively the responsibility of a controlling function. The physical components which include hypervisors because they have virtual switches in them are controlled through the management network. A single control point e.g. URM attached to the management network is provided for discovering the networking elements of the data network and for taking exclusive authority to configure and allocate the physical and virtual network resources through the management network. The networking resources of the data network are compute components managed by URM. The URM of the HMC component understands the current allocation of virtual networks across the ensemble and is responsible for accepting requests allowing for a life cycle of the virtual LANs create destroy and providing a mechanism to associate and connect virtual servers to a given VLAN.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system . Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Referring now to in one example a computer program product includes for instance one or more computer readable storage media to store computer readable program code means or logic thereon to provide and facilitate one or more aspects of the present invention.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using an appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language assembler or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

In addition to the above one or more aspects of the present invention may be provided offered deployed managed serviced etc. by a service provider who offers management of customer environments. For instance the service provider can create maintain support etc. computer code and or a computer infrastructure that performs one or more aspects of the present invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider may receive payment from the customer under a subscription and or fee agreement as examples. Additionally or alternatively the service provider may receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In one aspect of the present invention an application may be deployed for performing one or more aspects of the present invention. As one example the deploying of an application comprises providing computer infrastructure operable to perform one or more aspects of the present invention.

As a further aspect of the present invention a computing infrastructure may be deployed comprising integrating computer readable code into a computing system in which the code in combination with the computing system is capable of performing one or more aspects of the present invention.

As yet a further aspect of the present invention a process for integrating computing infrastructure comprising integrating computer readable code into a computer system may be provided. The computer system comprises a computer readable medium in which the computer medium comprises one or more aspects of the present invention. The code in combination with the computer system is capable of performing one or more aspects of the present invention.

Although various embodiments are described above these are only examples. For example computing environments of other architectures can incorporate and use one or more aspects of the present invention. Further other operating systems or systems may be used. Additionally the single point of control may be of an administrative or management model of a system other than System z or zEnterprise or of an architecture other than the z Architecture . An ensemble may have one system hybrid or not or a plurality of systems hybrid or not . An HMC may control a single system a single hybrid system and or an ensemble. Although particular examples of blade extensions blade racks blade center chassis and blades have been provided these are only examples others may be used without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Many other variations are also possible and considered a part of the claimed invention.

Further other types of computing environments can benefit from one or more aspects of the present invention. As an example an environment may include an emulator e.g. software or other emulation mechanisms in which a particular architecture including for instance instruction execution architected functions such as address translation and architected registers or a subset thereof is emulated e.g. on a native computer system having a processor and memory . In such an environment one or more emulation functions of the emulator can implement one or more aspects of the present invention even though a computer executing the emulator may have a different architecture than the capabilities being emulated. As one example in emulation mode the specific instruction or operation being emulated is decoded and an appropriate emulation function is built to implement the individual instruction or operation.

In an emulation environment a host computer includes for instance a memory to store instructions and data an instruction fetch unit to fetch instructions from memory and to optionally provide local buffering for the fetched instruction an instruction decode unit to receive the fetched instructions and to determine the type of instructions that have been fetched and an instruction execution unit to execute the instructions. Execution may include loading data into a register from memory storing data back to memory from a register or performing some type of arithmetic or logical operation as determined by the decode unit. In one example each unit is implemented in software. For instance the operations being performed by the units are implemented as one or more subroutines within emulator software.

Further a data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code is usable that includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements include for instance local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memory which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input Output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices DASD tape CDs DVDs thumb drives and other memory media etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the available types of network adapters.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below if any are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiment with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

