---

title: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for maintaining recommendations in a media recommendation system
abstract: Methods and systems for generating media item recommendations are disclosed herein. According to an aspect, a method may include using at least a processor and memory for receiving candidate media items associated with one or more computing devices that either has recently played or is currently playing a media item currently being played by another computing device. The method may also include determining recommendation scores for the candidate media items based on occurrence counts of the media items within a predetermined time period. Further, the method may include generating a media item recommendation for the other computing device based on the recommendation scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015109&OS=09015109&RS=09015109
owner: Lemi Technology, LLC
number: 09015109
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 554 102 filed Nov. 1 2011 and titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR GENERATING RECOMMENDATIONS FROM OTHER USERS CURRENTLY PLAYING THE SAME MEDIA ITEM the content of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Further this application is related to co pending U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 666 808 filed simultaneously herewith and titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIA FOR GENERATING RECOMMENDATIONS IN A MEDIA RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 666 819 filed simultaneously herewith and titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIA FOR SELECTING A PLAYHEAD IN A SOCIAL MEDIA PLAYBACK SYSTEM all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to playback of media items. Particularly the present disclosure relates to generating recommendations for playback of media items.

Playing media items using network connected computing devices has gained popularity in today s society. Internet based music service providers such as Last.fm Ltd. and Spotify Ltd. have popularized the practice of providing real time playback status information of users to a central server central system or other computing device. The service may then analyze the information and use it for recommending music to other users.

Currently available music recommendation systems have made use of co occurrence information within media sets to develop high quality recommendation systems. Example systems include Apple Inc. s ITUNES GENIUS service and before that Strands Inc. s media recommender service. Using the ITUNES GENIUS service as an example a central system collects information about the media collections of multiple users and the service has access to a large and rich data set. The system then proceeds to analyze each user collection and counts each time two media items occur within each collection. When analyzed over a large number of collections information is produced that indicates the likelihood of a second media item being present given the presence of a first media item. This relationship may also be referred to as the affinity between the two items. An enhancement to this algorithm includes assigning a higher bond between two media items occurring within a user created playlist within a collection versus just occurring within the same collection. Basically if two items occur within the same collection it may be reasoned that they are related in some way i.e. the same user likes both media items enough to own them . Likewise if a user went through the effort of creating a custom playlist containing two media items then they must be highly related.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As used herein the term candidate media item can refer to media items selected for consideration scoring and or possible recommendation. Not all candidate media items become recommended media items. In an example a candidate media item may be removed from consideration because the user has recently played it. In another example a candidate media item may also be removed from consideration because the requesting user has blocked the song artist contributing user geographic location or other media item attribute corresponding to the candidate media item. Further for example a candidate media item may not be used as a recommended media item simply because it ranks low after scoring and or does not meet a scoring threshold.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for generating media item recommendations. According to an aspect a method may include using at least a processor and memory of a computing device for obtaining play schedules associated with a plurality of other computing devices the other computing devices currently playing or having recently played a reference media item. From the play schedules candidate media items are chosen. Candidate media items may be a smaller group of media items that can be selected for recommendation to a user. The method may also include determining recommendation scores for the candidate media items. Further the method may include generating a media item recommendation for one or more other computing device based on the recommendation scores.

As used herein the term playhead is used to indicate the play position of a user of a computing device on a position scrollbar. The playhead may be represented through graphics text or any combination thereof. The playhead may contain other information about the user of the computing device including profile information comprising gender geographic location geographic proximity group affiliations demographics age influence rating appearance history favorite artist favorite song favorite entertainer computing device type play state status and the like. The playhead may also display information relating to the play schedule of the user corresponding to the computing device the play schedule comprising future media items to be played and past media items played.

According to another aspect a method of determining a list of playheads for a media item may include using at least a processor and memory at a computing device for playing a media item. The method may include determining a plurality of other computing devices that are currently playing the same media item. Further the method may include determining a plurality of intervals for display of playheads corresponding to the other computing devices on a playhead scrollbar. The method may also include selecting an optimal other computing device for at least one of the plurality of intervals. Further the method may include displaying a playhead corresponding to the optimal other computing device on the playhead scrollbar.

According to yet another aspect a method includes using at least a processor and memory for obtaining a play instance identifying a media item and a corresponding timestamp indicating when the media item was played. The method also includes associating the play instance with a plurality of play instances associated with the media item. In response to determining that an update criteria has been satisfied the method further includes executing an update function to determine updated media item recommendations. The method also includes storing the updated media item recommendations in a recommendation list for future use.

The presently disclosed subject matter is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventor has contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

As referred to herein the term computing device should be broadly construed. It can include any type of mobile device for example a smart phone a cell phone a pager a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. with GPRS NIC a mobile computer with a smart phone client a portable media player device a mobile gaming device a tablet computer a handheld computer a laptop computer set top box Internet radio A V network receiver or the like. A computing device can also include any type of conventional computer for example a desktop computer or a laptop computer. A typical mobile device is a wireless data access enabled device e.g. an iPHONE smart phone a BLACKBERRY smart phone a NEXUS ONE smart phone an iPAD device Samsung Rogue smart phone or the like that is capable of sending and receiving data in a wireless manner using protocols like the Internet Protocol or IP and the wireless application protocol or WAP. This allows users to access information via wireless devices such as smart phones mobile phones pagers two way radios communicators and the like. Wireless data access is supported by many wireless networks including but not limited to CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX ReFLEX iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex EDGE and other 2G 3G 4G and LTE technologies and it operates with many handheld device operating systems such as PalmOS EPOC Windows CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS iOS and Android. Typically these devices use graphical displays and can access the Internet or other communications network on so called mini or micro browsers which are web browsers with small file sizes that can accommodate the reduced memory constraints of wireless networks. In a representative embodiment the mobile device is a cellular telephone or smart phone that operates over GPRS General Packet Radio Services which is a data technology for GSM networks. In addition to a conventional voice communication a given mobile device can communicate with another such device via many different types of message transfer techniques including SMS short message service enhanced SMS EMS multi media message MMS email WAP paging or other known or later developed wireless data formats. Although many of the examples provided herein are implemented on a mobile device the examples may similarly be implemented on any suitable computing device.

As referred to herein an interface is generally a system by which users interact with a computing device. An interface can include an input for allowing users to manipulate a computing device and can include an output for allowing the system to present information and or data indicate the effects of the user s manipulation etc. An example of an interface on a computing device e.g. a mobile device includes a graphical user interface GUI that allows a user to interact with programs in more ways than typing. A GUI typically can offer display objects and visual indicators as opposed to text based interfaces typed command labels or text navigation to represent information and actions available to a user. For example an interface can be a display window or display object which is selectable by a user of a mobile device for interaction. The display object can be displayed on a display screen of a mobile device and can be selected by and interacted with by a user using the interface. In an example the display of the mobile device can be a touch screen which can display the display icon. The user can depress the area of the display screen at which the display icon is displayed for selecting the display icon. In another example the user can use any other suitable interface of a mobile device such as a keypad to select the display icon or display object. For example the user can use a track ball or arrow keys for moving a cursor to highlight and select the display object.

As referred to herein a media item is generally any type of content that may be played by a computing device. For example a media item may be audio e.g. music video or any combination thereof. Media items may be communicated between computing devices and may be in any suitable format.

Operating environments in which embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented are also well known. In a representative embodiment a computing device such as a mobile device is connectable for example via WAP to a transmission functionality that varies depending on implementation. Thus for example where the operating environment is a wide area wireless network e.g. a 2.5G network a 3G network or a 4G network the transmission functionality comprises one or more components such as a mobile switching center MSC an enhanced ISDN switch that is responsible for call handling of mobile subscribers a visitor location register VLR an intelligent database that stores on a temporary basis data required to handle calls set up or received by mobile devices registered with the VLR a home location register HLR an intelligent database responsible for management of each subscriber s records one or more base stations which provide radio coverage with a cell a base station controller BSC a switch that acts as a local concentrator of traffic and provides local switching to effect handover between base stations and a packet control unit PCU a device that separates data traffic coming from a mobile device . The HLR also controls certain services associated with incoming calls. Of course the present disclosure may be implemented in other and next generation mobile networks and devices as well. The mobile device is the physical equipment used by the end user typically a subscriber to the wireless network. Typically a mobile device is a 2.5G compliant device or 3G compliant device or 4G compliant device that includes a subscriber identity module SIM which is a smart card that carries subscriber specific information mobile equipment e.g. radio and associated signal processing devices a user interface or a man machine interface MMI and one or more interfaces to external devices e.g. computers PDAs and the like . The mobile device may also include a memory or data store.

The presently disclosed subject matter is now described in more detail. illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary computing environment for generating media item recommendations in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. Referring to a central system may be communicatively connected to computing devices i.e. computing devices . . . N via one or more networks . The central system may include a control system having a user information broker a tracker information broker and a media broker . The user information broker may manage and store data relating to users of the central system . For example the user information broker may store such data in a user accounts database . Users may include but are not limited to persons who are operating the computing device or who have previously operated the computing device . The tracker information broker may maintain tracker information describing a currently playing media item and a current position within the media item. The tracker information may be stored on a server such as central system shown in or another computing device such as one of computing devices shown in . The media broker may be operable with a media repository and may provide access to media items playable within the computing environment. A media item may be for example but not limited to audio e.g. music video or any combination thereof. The functions of the central system may be implemented in software in hardware in firmware or in any combination thereof. The central system may be implemented as a single server or any number of computers or servers comprising a server farm. The server s and or computer s of the central system may be located either at the same network location or at various different network locations distributed throughout the network s .

A user may interact with the central system by use of one of the computing devices . In an example a computing device may communicate with the central system using the Internet any other suitable communications network or combinations thereof. Standard web protocols such as HTTP may be used to facilitate network traffic as described herein such as in the examples of . Referring to computing device for example the computing device may include a control system comprising a registration login authentication RLA function a media playback function a user interface UI handler an interface and a data store or memory . Computing devices . . . N may include the same or similar functions having the same or similar features. The RLA function may control the interface e.g. a display for allowing the user to register with the central system and to create a user account for storage in the user accounts database . In an example information regarding users may be obtained from or augmented with data obtained from a social network or from other computing devices such as computing devices and .

As used herein the term social network may be used to describe any system operating to provide a user of the system the ability to express reciprocal friend relationships with other users of the system. An example of a social network is any of the social networks maintained by the FACEBOOK social network service.

As used herein the term social distance may be used to describe the number of hops required to reach another user of the system. For example a friend can have a social distance of one. A friend of a friend can have a social distance of two.

As used herein the term social graph may be used to identify the relationships possessed by a single user. External services such as services described in this disclosure may obtain information regarding a user of a social network using an application programming interface API for external developers. In the example of the FACEBOOK social network service this external API is called Facebook Connect.

The media playback function may operate to provide playback of a media item. The media playback function may communicate to the central system information specifying a currently playing media item and a current playback position within the media item. For example the media playback function may control an input output component of the computing device to communicate to a state tracking function a media item identifier ID and an identifier of the current playback position of the media item. The media playback function may periodically communicate such state information to the state tracking function for storage within the tracker information database . The state tracking function may also update information within the tracker information database . Further the state tracking function may communicate to the computing device similar user state information obtained from other computing devices . For example such state information may be obtained from other computing devices such as computing device or currently playing media items having the same media item ID as the requesting computing device along with the corresponding user state information for each respective computing device . A next media item selection function may include logic for selecting a next media item for playback. In an example the logic of the next media item selection function is executed at the central system and the results are provided to a computing device .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the network s is not limited by the aspects listed above. More specifically the network s may be one or more of any type of network suitable to allow interaction between the computing devices and the central system . For example the network s may be a wired network a wireless network or any combination thereof. Further the network s may include a distributed computing network an intranet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN or any combination thereof.

A friends list field may include one or more identifiers for identifying other users of the system with which the user has a relationship. In an example a friend may be another user with which the user successfully completed an invitation response protocol within a social network environment. Further the friends list may include identifiers of computing devices of the other users.

A preferences field may include information about preferences of the user. The preferences information may be used for various customizations pertaining to the operation of the disclosed systems and methods. Examples of preferences may include display colors display fonts startup preferences media item genre evaluation interval settings and or the like.

A profile information field may include information regarding the user. This information may include age gender birthday demographic information race ethnicity political affiliation clubs awards and or the like.

A location field may include information indicating the location of user . In an example this field may include identification of the last known location of the user. In another example this field may include a history of locations and timestamps.

An access information field may include information representing which other users and applications may make use of various stored information regarding the user. For example the user may choose to make all his her information public grant access only to friends only to certain friends or list of users and or the like.

A user state field may include information representing an activity of a user currently playing back a media item. For example user state information may include an identifier uniquely identifying a computing device within the system. In another example user state information may include an identifier identifying a user within the system. Further for example user state information may include media item schedule information and or other information as disclosed herein regarding a user s state.

As used herein the term state query is used to refer to a process of a computing device transmitting a user s identification information and currently playing media item identifier to a central system or other computing device. In response the central system may transmit to the computing device a list of other users currently playing the same media item along with the corresponding next media item to play information for each other user.

Next media item may identify the media item ID that will be played for the user at the end of the current media item . This information may also include the user s that were playing the same media item ID and contributed to its selection. A last evaluation time may represent the last time that the logic was successfully executed to determine the next media item to play. Reasons for failure might include network failure network latency user starvation e.g. instance where a user is denied a resource and the like.

Playback scrollbar information may include next evaluation time which may represent the scheduled time when the next media item determination logic will be executed. Last evaluation time may represent a scheduled time when the previous media item was executed. Evaluation interval may represent the interval between next media item selection attempts. This may be expressed in terms of a time interval a divisor by which a duration of the media item ID is divided to arrive at the evaluation interval . In an example the next media item determination is performed only twice once at the start of the media item and again later in the playback of the media item. Playback scrollbar information may also include other playheads A playhead may be an indicator of a current play position within a media item. For example a playhead may be a displayed icon or line that indicates a relative position of play within some other indicia e.g. a displayed bar of the total play time of a media item.

The user pane may operate to display a hierarchical information menu wherein the top level menu items of the hierarchical information menu corresponds to the social playheads currently appearing on the position scroll bar . In this particular figure only menu is in an expanded state. Menu items and are all in their contracted states. The social playhead menu items may include the social playhead and position indicator . Selection of a menu item e.g. media items and N may cause additional information regarding the user to be displayed. The additional information displayed may include play history information favorite track information favorite artist information follower information and followee information . Selection of the play history information menu item may effect the presentation of information stored in the play history field of a user account database such as the user account database shown in . The information displayed by the favorite tracks information menu item and the favorite artist information menu item may be determined from an analysis of the play history . The information displayed in the followers information menu item and followee information menu item may be stored in a friends list such as the friends list shown in .

The media player pane may include a media information area and the position scrollbar . The media information area may also include a cover art display area and a hierarchical information menu wherein the top level menu items of the hierarchical information menu corresponds to metadata for the currently playing media item . An artist information menu item may operate to display information about the artist of the currently playing song. The album information menu item may display information regarding the album from which the current song is playing as well as other tracks from the same album. Information describing other albums from the same artist may also be displayed.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a next song to play for a user may be determined by selecting the most frequently occurring next song from among other users. This determination may be made at any time before the user reaches the end of playback of the current media item. This determination process may occur only once or it may occur multiple times. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many variations are possible in terms of algorithms for selecting a next media item to play. These variations should be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

In an example the media player pane may show by default information related to the currently playing media item. Alternatively this information may not be shown by default. The user may select other media items for which to display information by selecting any song appearing in any upcoming media item list of any other user. In an example the information shown in the song information pane may include album art and metadata relating to the song. Unless otherwise configured the media item described in the media player information pane may revert back to a current media item at the start of each new media item.

The media pane may display information for a selected user. The selected user may be the current user or any user displayed as a playhead. As the user selects a playhead by clicking on it or using other such selection means the media pane may update to display information for that specific user. In an example the information shown in the media pane can be comprised of the user s profile image and metadata relating to the user.

Referring to the user interface includes the user information pane the media pane and the current video position scrollbar . The current video position scrollbar includes social playheads e.g. playheads and for other users currently playing the same video. The user information pane may operate to display a hierarchical information menu wherein the top level menu items of the hierarchical information menu corresponds to time periods e.g. time periods and of a video being played back. Menus and are hierarchical controls operable to show additional information in an expanded view when selected. In this particular figure only menu is in an expanded state. Menu items and are all in their contracted states. A user may interact with the display to select one of the time periods to uncover a corresponding next level of menu items e.g. media items and . The menu items may correspond to other users who are at a position within the selected time period within the video . Selection of a menu item may cause additional information regarding the user to be displayed. The additional information displayed may indicate a time where the respective user is in playback of the video along with a thumbnail image e.g. images and corresponding to that position in the video . A number may be displayed within box for indicating a number of playheads that are displayed. The selector adjacent box may be used for changing the number of playheads to display on the scrollbar . Further a number may be displayed within box for indicating a number of divisions displayed within the scrollbar . The selector adjacent box may be used for changing the number of divisions.

At the current time t 0 all four users associated with playheads and are experiencing the same media item i.e. listening to song G. At the time t 10 trailing playhead was finishing song B the trailing playhead was listening to song S the leading playhead was listening to song A and following playhead was listening to song M. In the example shown has the same number of past media items and future media items for each of the leading and trailing users but this need not be the case because each user may have differing numbers of past media items and future media items .

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a computing device corresponding to playhead or a central server may determine one or more media items for playback by the computing device associated with playhead . For example the computing device or server may obtain or otherwise receive candidate media items from other users recently playing the currently playing media item of the user associated with playhead . In the example of it may be determined that at time t 0 or near a time t 0 playheads and are also playing song G on their respective computing devices. In response to determining that the other playheads are playing the same music or other media item the computing device or server may determine candidate media items from the others. For example the computing device or server may determine that the others have played music A and B and music A and B may be candidates for playback by playhead . Other candidate media items may be for example the music that the others will play. Subsequently the computing device or server may determine a recommendation score for the candidate music based on an occurrence count of the candidate music with an analysis window. For example the computing device or server may count the number of occurrences e.g. number of times the candidate music was played within a predetermined time period. The recommendation score may be based on the occurrence count for the others within the predetermined time period. Subsequently the computing device or server may select for playback one or more music items from the group of candidate music based on the recommendation score. For example the computing device or server may select for playback the music with the highest number of occurrences within the predetermined time period. This music may be set for playback by the computing device associated with playhead within a time period designated by broken line .

Referring to a media item ID is the unique identifier associated with the media item. Last evaluation is used to track the time at which the recommendations associated with the media item were last computed. Usage count tracks the number of times that the recommendation list has been accessed. There are two parts to the usage count. One counter counts the total number of times the recommendation list has been accessed. Another counter keeps track of the number of times the recommendation has been accessed since the recommendation list was last updated. In one aspect the recommendation list is maintained in a sort with the most highly recommended media items at one end of the list and the least highly recommended media item at the other end of the list. The media item recommendation list may be stored in memory for low latency high throughput access stored in the file system or stored in a database. In one aspect the most frequently accessed recommendation list is maintained in memory while the less frequently accessed recommendation list is maintained in the file store or database.

Subsequently the central system may communicate to each computing device information identifying one or more media items from one or more other computing devices. With the obtained information the computing devices may each render a timeline with positions of user and other computing device playback positions in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. For example a position scrollbar may be updated to show playheads that indicate playback positions and that identify other computing devices currently playing the same media item. Subsequently each computing device may select a next song for playback from among the songs currently being played by the other computing devices at step . The process may subsequently start over and the computing devices may provide updated current media item and playback position information for the current user .

Now returning to step the method may subsequently proceed to step wherein the computing device provides the media item schedule identifying a current playing reference media item and future media items to be played. In one implementation this information is provided to a central system or server. In another implementation this information is provided to another module of the same computing device. An example implementation of this step is provided in the method of described below. At step a response is received identifying one or more media item schedules from one or more optimal other computing devices currently playing the same reference media item. In one implementation this information can be obtained from a central system or server. In another implementation this information is obtained from another module of the same computing device. As further illustration this information may be received in accordance with the example method of . Also next media items for the current user may be obtained. The method may then proceed to step . At step playheads can be displayed for users and corresponding associated media item schedules for those with changes in position. Subsequently the method may proceed to step to wait for another signal.

As further clarification it is noted that computing devices participating within the present system can be either contributing users or following users. Contributing users are those users who are playing content from a media source that is user determined as opposed to obtained from the present recommendation system. Following users are those users who are playing back a stream of media items selected by the present system. In terms of this can mean that a computing device will either be providing next media items to play in step or obtaining next media items to play in step but not both.

The method of includes obtaining a list of other users currently consuming or playing the same media item step . For example other computing devices may transmit to the server identification of the media item currently being played by the respective computing device. The server may determine the computing devices playing the same media item.

The method of includes determining a number of playheads to fit on a position scrollbar and dividing the position scrollbar into intervals step . For example the number of playheads to be identified is determined by determining the number of playhead icons that can fit on the time line of the scrollbar without touching and subtracting one for the current user. If some white space is desired between the playheads the number may be further reduced. The position scrollbar may then be divided into intervals. For each interval other than the interval occupied by the current user the optimal playhead is determined. The criteria for determining the optimal playhead may depend on one or more factors such as but not limited to a social distance a social graph subnet proximity physical location proximity group affiliations media preference similarities media collection similarities physical location heavy influencer status and the like. The method of also includes selecting playheads for each interval based on playhead score except for the interval containing the current user s playhead step . Further the method of includes assembling the list of playheads corresponding positions and corresponding media item schedules step . Further the method includes obtaining future media items for a user replacing the existing schedule with updated information in the media item schedule and determining whether recommendations need to be refreshed step . The method of also includes providing a list of playheads corresponding positions and corresponding media item schedules to the computing device step . For example the server may provide this information to the computing device for processing and display on its display in accordance with examples described herein.

In one or more embodiments a heavy influencer may be a user who has a greater number of followers than a number of users he or she is following. The strength of a heavy influencer may be expressed with equation 1 where L indicates the count of users being led and F indicates the number of users being followed. This is set forth in the following equation 

In one or more embodiments a friends list may be obtained externally through a social network site. The relationship with the friends may be a symmetrical reciprocal friendship or it may be an asymmetrical follower followee type relationship. The friends list may be stored on the user s computing device and or remotely at a central system or one or more other computing devices.

As an example Table 1 sets forth a number of factors that may be used in determining other users playheads to display on a current song position scrollbar such as shown in . It is noted that due to display size constraint users all other users for example other than those identified on the position scrollbar may be identified in any suitable manner. It may be beneficial to consider other users when selecting a next media item. In an embodiment of the present disclosure the final selection of which other users to render on the position scrollbar may be delayed until a next media item to play is determined because it may then be possible to make sure that the other user s contributing the next media item to play will be included in the other users rendered on the current song position scrollbar .

The other users and their corresponding playheads e.g. playheads and shown in may be selected from the group of all users currently playing back the same media item. Based on the current popularity of the media item the number of other users playing back the same media item may be zero or may be very large. In a case in which the group of candidate other users is large the group may be selected by assigning members of the group a score that is computed as a function of factors such as but not limited to social distance profile matching user proximity playback position relative to user and or the like.

In an example other users may be excluded from the display group if they are listening to a source of content where they do not control the next media items being played. Examples of this scenario may be when the user is listening to an algorithmically generated or hand constructed constructed playlist. Other examples may be cases in which the user is receiving content from a stream or broadcast source as again they are not controlling the next media items being chosen for playback.

The method of further includes determining a plurality of intervals for displaying playheads corresponding to other computing devices currently playing the same media item step . Continuing the aforementioned example the computing device may query the central system for information about other computing devices playing the same media item. The central system may determine the computing devices playing the same media item in accordance with examples disclosed herein. Further the central system may transmit identifiers of the computing devices to the computing device .

As an example the other computing devices may be playing the media item at a point behind or ahead of the computing device . Further the other computing devices may be selected based on locations of the other computing devices proximity of the other computing devices to the computing device a social distance between a user of the computing device and users of the other computing devices a match of user profiles between a user of the computing device and users of the other computing devices the like and combinations thereof.

The method of further includes selecting an optimal other computing device for at least one of the plurality of intervals step . For example for each interval other than the interval occupied by the current user the optimal playhead is determined. The criteria for determining the optimal playhead may depend on one or more factors such as but not limited to a social distance a social graph subnet proximity physical location proximity group affiliations media preference similarities media collection similarities physical location heavy influencer status the like or combinations thereof.

The method of further includes displaying a playhead corresponding to the optimal other user on the playhead scrollbar step . As an example other playheads may also be displayed on a scrollbar in accordance with examples disclosed herein. A position of each playhead may indicate a play state of the media item on a respective computing device. Further each playhead may indicate a location of a respective computing device a proximity of a respective computing device a social distance of a respective computing device the like or combinations thereof.

At step the method includes determining whether another job is in the queue. In response to determining that another job is in the queue the method proceeds to step to obtain the next job and to process the job in step . In response to determining that another job is not in the queue the method includes putting the thread to sleep step until another job is added and the thread is again woken at step .

Referring to the method includes obtaining a play history instance comprising a media item identifier and a timestamp that indicates when a media item corresponding to the media item identifier was played step . For example the central system may receive information from computing devices and that indicates media items that are currently playing or have been played. Further the central server may receive information from computing devices and that indicate timestamp information such as when media items were played.

The method of further includes associating the play history instance to an existing play history list for the media item corresponding to the media item identifier step .

The method of further includes updating the list of media item recommendations by executing an evaluation function in response to determining that an evaluation criteria has be satisfied step . In one embodiment the evaluation criteria is satisfied by comparing the last evaluation time to the play history instance timestamp and determining that a time difference between the timestamp and the last evaluation time meets a threshold.

The method of includes storing media item recommendations for future use step . The media item recommendations may also be used immediately to determine the next media item to play in response to a request. A computing device such as computing device may receive the media item recommendations and may play back one or more media items corresponding to media item identifier s contained in the media item recommendations.

The method of further includes removing any unwanted play history instances step . The play history instances may be removed for any suitable reason. In an example all play history instances contributed by users outside a geographic region may be removed from consideration.

The method of further includes assembling a list of recommended media items from past media items and future media items of other users recently playing the same media item step . A list of recommended media items may be assembled from past and future media items of other users recently playing the same media item. The recommendations may be sorted and the top scoring media item recommendations may be stored in the recommendation list for updating the recommendation list step . Subsequently the last evaluation time is set to the current time and the reset interval usage count is reset step .

Referring to the method includes obtaining play schedules associated with a plurality of other computing devices the other computing devices currently playing or having recently played a reference media item step . For example referring to the computing device may receive play schedules from the central system . In an example the computing device may transmit to the central system an identifier of a media item that it is currently playing. In response to receipt of the media item identifier the central system may determine other computing devices e.g. computing devices and that are playing or have recently played the same media item as computing device . In an example the candidate media items may be selected from among media items previously played by the other computing device s . In another example the candidate media items may be selected from among media items currently being played or scheduled for play by the other computing device s step . As an example identifiers of the candidate media items may be transmitted to the central system by the other computing devices and .

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the candidate media items are chosen from the play schedules based on their occurring within an analysis window. The analysis window may be expressed in terms of media items or in units of time. The term recently played media item may refer to a media item that has been played within a predetermined time period of a current time. In another example the term recently played may correspond to the media item being played within a predetermined number of previously played media items.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the play schedules s may be selected based on an affinity between the user of the corresponding computing device and users of other computing devices such as computing devices and . For example the computing devices may be selected based on one or more of an influence rating a last appearance a location proximity a media source a relative playback position and the like.

The method of further includes determining recommendation scores for the candidate media item based on occurrence counts of the media items within a predetermined time period step . For example a computing device or server may count the number of occurrences e.g. number of times the candidate music was played within a predetermined time period. The recommendation score may be based on the occurrence count for the others within the predetermined time period.

The method of further includes generating a media item recommendation for the other computing device based on the recommendation scores step . For example the computing device or server may select one or more media item recommendations from the media items based on the recommendation score. For example the computing device or server may present a media item recommendation indicating the media item with the highest number of occurrences within a predetermined analysis window.

The method of may optionally include playing the media item associated with the media item recommendation. For example the computing device may play back the media item indicated by the media item recommendation in response to receipt of the media item recommendation. In another example the computing device may place an identifier of the media item on a playback list for subsequent playback.

Referring to the method includes obtaining information identifying a plurality of other computing devices recently having played the same media item as a target computing device step .

The method of further includes determining a recommendation score as a function of social distance and list distance step . In one implementation of the present disclosure the formula shown in Equation 2 is used to compute the recommendation score such as the final score shown in . The social distance SD shown in for example is the number of hops between friends in a social graph. For example the social distance between friends is one. For a friend of a friend the social distance is two. The list distance LS is the distance between the recently played media item and the candidate media item being scored. In the example calculation of the candidate media items are labeled media item A X. The recently played media item is media item G.

Returning to the method further includes eliminating candidate media items occurring within the no repeat window step . To prevent the same song from being repeated too often a no repeat factor is included in the computation of the recommendation score. In one implementation of the present disclosure the no repeat factor is accounted for by removing a media item played during a no repeat window shown in . In the example of the media items occurring within the no repeat window are media items D F J M O R.

The method of further includes selecting as a recommendation the candidate media item as a function of the recommendation score of the candidate media items step . set forth exemplary computation of recommendation scores according to embodiments of the present disclosure Media item indicates the candidate media items being scored. Contributor indicates the user of the computing device from which the respective candidate media item was obtained from a play schedule. List distance indicates the number of media items between the respective candidate media item and the reference media item in the play schedule for the corresponding contributing user. Social distance indicates the respective social graph distance between the user contributing the candidate media item and the reference media item . No repeat indicates if the candidate media item should be removed from consideration because it has been recently played by the user receiving the media recommendations. In this case the receiving user has recently played media items O F M D J R so they are removed from consideration . Sub score indicates the respective score contribution for each play instance occurrence considered in the computation Final score indicates the total recommendation score for the respective candidate media item. The highest scoring candidate media item is media item H having a recommendation score of 1.58.

The example systems methods and computing devices disclosed herein are described as being applied to media content such as video and music although it should be understood that these systems methods and computing devices disclosed herein may be similarly applied to other media content. For example the media content may be an electronic book often referred to as an e book . Progress of a reader of e books on multiple computing devices may be determined as described herein and this information used among the computing devices in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein.

In accordance with embodiments a server such as a web server may be accessed by a suitably configured computing device for presenting media content. For example a web server may be accessed for playing music. In this example the music can be streamed to the computing device rather than being stored on the computing device until played by the computing device. In this case the methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented at the web server. Instructions for the display of playback indicia such as a play scrollbar and playheads can be determined at the web server and subsequently communicated to the computing device for presentation to the user.

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the embodiments of the present disclosure. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

The proposed system overcomes deficiencies of existing systems by making use of real time play history data provided by a number of users experiencing media items on an ongoing basis. By counting co occurrences of media items within user play schedules the present system is able to quickly adapt to changes in polarity of new media items. Also since each play history instance includes geographic location information and a timestamp recommendations may be tailored to a specific location or to a specific time period in history. For example the play history instance may include information about the affinity between two songs in L.A. In 1981. Additionally since play histories are maintained per media item it is possible to re compute recommendation information for more popular media items on a more frequent schedule. For example if a certain song is only played twice in a day and another new song is played 200K times in a day more computational resources should be applied to the more frequently played song.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosed embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computer will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The described methods and apparatus may also be embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer a video recorder or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the processing of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Features from one embodiment or aspect may be combined with features from any other embodiment or aspect in any appropriate combination. For example any individual or collective features of method aspects or embodiments may be applied to apparatus system product or component aspects of embodiments and vice versa.

While the embodiments have been described in connection with the various embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

