---

title: Sponsored stories application programming interface (API)
abstract: To provide a sponsored story unit, the social networking system receives a story request from an advertiser. The story request specifies properties of content used to generate the sponsored story. When the social networking system stores an object or an action performed on an object, properties associated with, and describing, the object or the action are also stored. For example, properties of an object include an object type, an object identifier, metadata describing the object or other suitable information. The social networking system identifies actions or objects associated with users connected to a viewing user having one or more properties included in a story request. A sponsored story is generated from the identified actions or objects and presented to a viewing user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892650&OS=08892650&RS=08892650
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08892650
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120630
---
This application is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 702 filed on Aug. 18 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 985 631 filed on Nov. 5 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention generally pertains to social networking and more specifically to specifying criteria for generating stories sponsored by an advertiser.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. These social networking systems allow users to communicate information more efficiently. For example a social networking system user may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other user specific data to a location associated with the user on a social networking system. Other users can then review the posted data by browsing user profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. Social networking systems also allow users to associate themselves with other users creating a web of connections among the users of the social networking system. These connections among the users can be leveraged by the social networking system to provide more relevant information to each user in view of user specific interests.

Social networking systems typically include a system for connecting users to content most likely to be relevant to different users. For example a social networking system may group users according to one or more common attributes in their profiles such as geographic location employer job type age music preferences interests or other attributes. Users of the social networking system or external parties such as advertisers can then use these groups to customize information delivery based on properties of the groups to increase the likelihood that users in a group receive information of interest.

Advertisers have attempted to leverage information about social networking system users by using information from the social networking system to target advertisements ads to different users. Commonly an advertiser identifies user characteristics to the social networking system which identifies users having one or more of the characteristics and serves an ad from the advertiser to the users having at least one of the characteristics. For example an advertiser identifies users with an affinity for a band and a location near a venue where the band is performing and the social networking system presents banner advertisements for the band s concert to users having the identified information in their profiles.

Additionally social networking systems may allow advertisers to sponsor stories informing a social networking system user of actions taken by other users. Such a sponsored story seeks to increase user interaction by providing more personalized information to a user based on actions taken by social networking system users. For example if a viewing user is connected to an additional user who has liked an advertiser s fan page the advertiser may sponsor a story that is communicated to the viewing user indicating that the additional user has liked the page. However advertisers currently have limited ability identify sponsored stories for communication to other users. This limits the ability of advertisers to flexibly and effectively promote user actions based on the information available within the social networking system.

Embodiments of the invention provide sponsored story units including a sponsored story and or one or more related posts to a viewing user of the social networking system. The sponsored story describes an action taken by a user of a social networking system to whom the viewing user is connected and an object on which the action was taken. For example the sponsored story may indicate that a particular user listened to an identified song or that the particular user shared a particular link. Hence a sponsored story leverages information stored by the social networking system about objects in the social networking system and actions performed on various objects.

To provide a sponsored story unit the social networking system receives a story request from an advertiser. The story request specifies properties of content used to generate the sponsored story. When the social networking system stores an object or an action performed on an object properties associated with and describing the object or the action are also stored. For example properties of an object include an object type an object identifier whether the object is internal or external to the social networking system metadata describing the object or other suitable information. Examples of properties of an action include an action type a time when the action occurred the source of the action whether the action is external or internal to the social networking system or other suitable information. By specifying properties of the content used to generate a sponsored story story requests allow specific actions and or objects to be identified and included in sponsored stories. For example a story request may specify an action type of listened and an object type of song to provide sponsored stories indicating songs to which users connected to the viewing user listened. This allows the advertiser greater ability to customize the content of sponsored stories in an effort to increase the likelihood the viewing user interacts with the sponsored stories.

Based on the received story request the social networking system accesses stored user profiles of users connected to the viewing user and identifies actions performed by the users connected to the viewing user and or objects on which the users connected to the viewing user performed actions. Actions and or objects associated with properties matching one or more of the properties specified by the story request are identified as candidate content for inclusion in the sponsored story corresponding to the story request. In one embodiment the candidate content is determined in response to a viewing user requesting content such as a web page. The social networking system may then select content for the sponsored story from the candidate content and generate the sponsored story for serving to the viewing user.

Specifying properties of content for a sponsored story in a story request allows advertisers increased flexibility in promoting products or brands by providing more specialized content in sponsored stories. For example a record label may provide story requests to generate sponsored stories identifying users listening to a song by an artist affiliated with the record label. In this example the story request may specify an action type of listened an object type of song and metadata associated with the object identifying the artist. In some embodiments the sponsored story unit presented to the viewing user includes a comment or review previously posted by a user in addition to the sponsored story. The sponsored story unit may also include an interface element allowing the user to interact with content included in the sponsored story. For example an interface element allows the viewing user to listen to a song or to view content included in the sponsored story.

Hence advertisers may identify any content stored by a social networking system for promotion to social networking system users. Identifying properties or other attributes of content in a request for content such as a story request allows an advertiser greater ability to customize content promoted to users based on advertiser interests or goals. While a story request may allow an advertiser to select content based on actions performed by a user it or another content request may also allow an advertiser to identify an object or other content stored by the social networking system for promotion to users by specifying one or more properties of the object or other content.

The features and advantages described in this summary and the following detailed description are not all inclusive. Many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof.

The Figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the system. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the system. Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user may select a particular other user to be a friend or may be automatically created by the social networking site based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . Connections in social networking systems are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connected to each other in the system Bob and Joe are also each other s friends. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections. Also the term friend need not require that users actually be friends in real life which would generally be the case when one of the users is a business or other entity it simply implies a connection in the social networking system.

In addition to interactions with other users the social networking system provides users with the ability to interact with various types of objects supported by the social networking system. An object may represent a variety of things including without limitation profiles applications e.g. games playable within the social networking system events e.g. a representation of a concert that users may attend groups e.g. a page to which user may belong entity based pages or hubs e.g. a page constituting a particular entity s presence on the social networking system locations associated with a user e.g. Palo Alto Calif. USA advertisements e.g. a page including advertising content user generated content items e.g. user posts representations of physical or digital items concepts etc. Objects may also be defined by a third party outside of the social networking system. For example a web page domain host may define an object and an action on the social networking object such that a user s interaction with the object on the web page may be registered with the social networking system.

Objects maintained by the social networking system are associated with or include properties describing the objects. Properties of an object are information describing the object. In some embodiments properties are stored as metadata associated with an object. Example properties of an object include a title a creation date an object identifier an object type an object description or other data associated with the object. In some embodiments a subset of properties associated with an object may depend on other properties of the object. For example a subset of properties associated with an object may depend on an object type. As an example an object having an object type of song may be associated with additional properties including an artist an album a song length album art etc. As another example an object having an object type of article may be associated with additional properties such as author genre keywords publication date or other data describing an article. Properties associated with an object may also have sub properties themselves providing further detail about a particular property. For example an artist property of a song object may have sub properties identifying a record label sponsoring the artist a country of origin or other information about the artist.

Social networking system users may interact with objects by performing one or more actions on the objects. A user may perform different actions on different types of objects. For example a user may join a group attend an event check in to a location become a fan of an entity s page post to a fan page etc. Hence different actions establish different associations between a user and an object.

Actions performed on objects maintained by a social networking system also have properties describing the actions. In some embodiments properties are stored as metadata associated with an action. Example properties of an action include an action type a date when the action was performed an object identifier of the object on which the action was performed a user identifier of the user performing the action other data associated with the action. Similar to properties of an object a subset of the properties of an action may depend on another property of an action. For example an action type may determine additional properties associated with an action. As an example if a user listens to a song object the social networking system stores a property identifying the action as listening and additional properties describing a date and time when the listening occurred a percentage of the song object to which the user listened or other data. As with properties of objects properties of actions may have sub properties to provide additional information about different properties.

While the preceding examples described actions that may be taken on objects included in the social networking system users may also perform actions on objects outside of a domain associated with the social networking system. For example a user may read an article on a newspaper domain listen to a song on a music application like a web page maintained by a domain other than that associated with the social networking system etc. Many other types of actions between users and objects inside or outside of the social networking system are possible. An action may also be generation of content by the user for presentation by the social networking system. For example a user may post data such as comments on an entity s fan page.

The social networking system includes one or more data stores including data describing actions performed by its users on objects maintained by the social networking system. Stored actions may be associated with a user profile maintained by the social networking system of a user performing the action. Additionally the social networking system associates a stored action with an object on which the action was performed and stores the association allowing subsequent retrieval of actions performed by social networking system users on various objects. Associating actions with user profiles allows retrieval of properties of an action and or properties of an object based on a user profile.

The social networking system presents a variety of content to its users. Examples of content that may be displayed to a user include images videos audio data pictures etc. Additionally the social networking system may display a newsfeed to its users. The newsfeed includes stories describing actions taken by social networking system users on objects maintained by the social networking system. For example a newsfeed presented to a viewing user includes stories describing actions performed on objects by other users connected to the viewing user. When selecting stories for inclusion in a newsfeed the social networking system may use a variety of factors. In one embodiment advertisers may provide the social networking system with compensation for including stories selected by the advertiser in newsfeeds presented to users. This allows the advertiser to sponsor stories to increase the likelihood that the stories are presented to social networking system users. Hence sponsoring a story allows advertisers to increase the likelihood that users view the story by providing the social networking system with an incentive to present sponsored stories to users.

In this way the social networking system provides one or more sponsored story units for display to a viewing user in the viewing user s newsfeed. In addition to the newsfeed the sponsored stories may be presented to the viewing user in any other portion of a user interface displayed to the viewing user either in the social networking system itself or via an external system such as a third party web page that is in communication with the social networking system. The sponsored story unit includes a sponsored story describing one or more actions performed on an object by one or more users connected to the viewing user. For example a sponsored story indicates that a viewing user s friend listened to a song read an article or performed another type of action. Embodiments of sponsored stories or social ads are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 702 filed Aug. 18 2008 published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0119167 which is incorporated in its entirety be reference herein.

In one embodiment a sponsored story unit includes an interface element in addition to the sponsored story. The interface element allows a user viewing the sponsored story unit to interact with the sponsored story. In some embodiments the interface elements may vary based on the content of the sponsored story. For example a sponsored story describing user interaction with an article may include a link allowing the user viewing the sponsored story to access the article. As another example a sponsored story indicating a user listened to a song may include an interface element allowing the user viewing the sponsored story to listen to the song or to purchase the song.

A sponsored story unit may also include an input element that receives content from the user such as a comment and associates the received content with the sponsored story unit. For example the input element is a text entry field allowing a user viewing the sponsored story unit to provide a comment about the sponsored story. By allowing a viewing user to interact with a sponsored story unit via an input element the social networking system increases the likelihood of user engagement when viewing the sponsored story unit. In addition content received via the input element may be used when subsequently distributing sponsored story units to other users. For example content received from a viewing user via the input element may be reported in sponsored story units subsequently presented to the viewing user s friends.

To select a specific story request to generate a sponsored story unit for a viewing user the selection engine accesses stored story requests and determines whether users connected to the viewing user have performed an action having one or more properties identified by a story request and or have performed an action on an object having one or more properties identified by a story request . Hence a story request specifies one or more of an action an object on which an action was performed a property of the object and or a property of an action property allowing advertisers to customize the content of sponsored stories

For example a story request identifies a song by a particular artist and an action of listen so the selection engine determines whether users connected to the viewing user have listened to the identified song. Referring to a first user connected to the viewing user has performed a plurality of actions . For purposes of illustration object in is a song by the artist identified in the example story request and the action by the first user is listening to the song. In the first user also performs an additional action of liking another object such as a page. Also in the example of a second user connected to the viewing user performs an action of listening to an additional object which is a song by a different artist than specified by the example story request . also depicts an additional user performing an action on the additional object such as liking the song. In this example the selection engine selects the action on the object as the action and the object have the properties identified by the example story request .

A story generation engine in the social networking system generates one or more sponsored story units from the actions performed and or objects on which the action was performed by users connected to the viewing user identified by the story request . If the selection engine selects actions my multiple users connected to viewing user satisfying the properties in the story request the story generation engine may use various factors to select the action object and user for generating the sponsored story unit. Selection of the content of the sponsored story unit is further described below. For example if two users connected to the viewing user perform an action having a property specified in a story request on an object having a property specified in the story request the generated sponsored story may describe the action performed by the user with whom the viewing user has a higher affinity. An affinity between the viewing user and another user represents the likely interest in the viewing user has for actions performed by the user or for content provided by the user. For example the affinity between users is higher if the users frequently interact with each other through the social networking system . The sponsored story unit generated by the story generation engine includes a description of action performed on an object by a user connected to the viewing user based on the sponsored story request . The generated sponsored story unit may optionally include interface elements for receiving input from the viewing user .

The client devices include one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the client devices may be desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The client devices are configured to communicate via network which may include any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. The client devices allow various users can communicate with the social networking system . The third party website is coupled to the network in order to communicate with the social networking system .

The social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. In one embodiment the social networking system stores user profiles that describe the users of a social network including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. The social networking system additionally stores other objects such as fan pages events groups advertisements general postings etc.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store also includes references to actions by the corresponding user performed on objects in the object data store and stored in the action log .

The social networking system maintains data about a number of different types of objects with which a social networking system user may interact. Examples of objects include events plans pictures audio data video data groups or any other suitable data. The object data store includes data identifying each object maintained by the social networking system and properties associated with different objects. For example the object data store includes metadata associated with different types of objects used to describe properties of different objects. For example for event objects the object data store includes metadata identifying a title location time list of invited users list of attending data structures specifying the time and location for an event. Additional examples of properties of an object are further described in conjunction with . The social networking system associates a unique object identifier with each object simplifying retrieval of different objects or accessing properties of different objects. The object data store may also include data identifying objects external to the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications about user actions performed on objects internal to and or external to the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions described in connection with objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log . The action logger also captures properties of actions to provide additional information about actions performed by users. Properties of actions are further described above in conjunction with .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as user actions on external websites that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Properties describing characteristics or attributes of different actions are also stored in the action log and associated with their corresponding actions. For example the action log includes metadata associated with each action with the metadata specifying properties of its associated action. In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites and properties associated with these actions. A property associated with actions stored in the action log may indicate whether the action was performed on the social networking system or external to the social networking system . In some embodiments an additional property is associated with actions indicating whether the object on which the action was performed is internal to the social networking system or external to the social networking system . For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In general the web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more of the client devices as well as to one or more third party websites . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client devices or third party websites . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging technique. In one embodiment the web server receives requests for content from client devices and communicates the requests to the story generation engine or other components for generating content to be presented to a user associated with a client device . As further described above the content presented to the user may include one or more sponsored story units allowing an advertiser to inform the user of actions involving a brand or product associated with the advertiser.

The story request store stores story requests received from advertisers or other sources. In one embodiment when a new story request is received from an advertiser data describing attributes of the story request is generated and stored in the story request store . A unique identifier is associated with each story request. For example the story request store stores a unique story request identifier data identifying the advertiser from which the story request was received data describing the properties specified by the story request e.g. object action property of an object property of an action sub property of a property of an action sub property of a property of an object etc. and other data identifying a story request. Story requests from the story request store are retrieved and used by the selection engine to identify content for inclusion in a sponsored story unit. Each story request can additionally include other parameters for defining a sponsored story unit. For instance a story request may indicate whether certain interface elements should be included information for any content to be presented any associated advertisements to be presented etc.

The selection engine accesses story requests included in the story request store and identifies data from the user profile store action log and object data store having one or more of the properties in a story request. In one embodiment the selection engine can retrieves a number of story requests from the story request store . The story requests may have been previously received by the social networking system from advertisers advertising brokers and or the like. Each story request identifies one or more properties of an action taken by a user of the social networking system and or one or more properties of an object in the social networking system on which a user acted. Hence the story request identifies content to be included in a sponsored story unit and the selection engine identifies content stored by the social networking system having the properties identified by a story request. For example a sponsored story request identifies an action of listening to an object having particular properties so the selection engine identifies stored actions by users to whom a viewing user is connected having a type of listen performed on an object having the specified properties. Selection of content for a sponsored story unit based on a story request is further described below.

Based on the retrieved story requests the selection engine identifies candidate content for inclusion in sponsored story units. For example the selection engine determines whether at least one user connected to a viewing user has performed an action having a property identified by a story request and or has performed an action on an object having a property identified by a story request. For example a story request may specify an action of reading an object having an article type that was authored by a specified author. Thus if users connected to the viewing user read the article having the specified author those actions would be included as candidate content.

The selection engine may identify any content items stored by the social networking system for inclusion in a sponsored story or for otherwise being distributed to social networking system users. For clarity the selection engine is described herein as identifying content items based on properties of objects properties of actions sub properties of objects and or sub properties of actions the selection engine may receive properties or other suitable data for identifying objects stored by the social networking system . This allows the selection engine to identify any content stored by the social networking system for presentation to users based on properties or other data included in a received story request or another request for content. Hence the selection engine allows advertisers to select any type of content stored by the social networking system to be promoted or otherwise presented to social networking system users.

The story generation engine or the selection engine selects content from the candidate content for the sponsored story unit. Any suitable method may be used to select content for the sponsored story unit. For example the story generation engine determine the probability that the viewing user will access different candidate content and select the candidate content having the highest probability. As another example the story generation engine selects the candidate content having a highest expected value computed as a function of a per click bid price for the story request and weighted by the probability that the viewing user will access the sponsored story unit. In various embodiments the probability that the viewing user will click on a sponsored story unit is based on a weighted function of the viewing user s affinities for the users performing the actions included in the candidate content.

Hence the candidate content identified by the selection engine includes actions and or objects having one or more properties specified by story requests and the content for a sponsored story unit is selected from the candidate content by the selection engine or the story generation engine . After selecting content from the candidate content the story generation engine generates a sponsored story unit from the selected content. In one embodiment the story generation engine selects content for the sponsored story unit based on the user engagement values for the actions or the objects included in the candidate content. The user engagement values may be based on the number of users who have viewed or commented on an object or performed a similar action. For example an action may be determined to have a high user engagement value if the action or object has been liked by a relatively large number of users.

In another embodiment the story generation engine selects the content for a sponsored story unit based on the affinity of the viewing user for users performing actions included in the candidate content. The affinity for the viewing user for another user may be determined from the number of interactions between the viewing user and the other user. It should be appreciated that methods for selecting the content included in a sponsored story unit may be combined in any suitable manner. For example in selecting the content for the sponsored story unit the story generation engine may consider both user engagement values and affinity or any other suitable combination of metrics. The story generation engine may differently weight data used to select the content of the sponsored story unit.

A sponsored story unit generated by the story generation engine includes a sponsored story describing an action performed by at least one user connected to the viewing user on an object based on data in a sponsored story request. For example the sponsored story unit indicates that two users connected to the viewing user listened to a song by an artist associated with a particular record label. The generated sponsored story unit may further include additional information stored in the social networking system such as the name and a picture of the at least one of the users connected to the viewing user links to the user profile etc. In one embodiment the sponsored story unit can optionally include an interface element allowing the viewing user to interact with the sponsored story unit. For example the viewing user can use the interface element to listen to song navigate to a webpage to read an article etc.

The generated sponsored story unit is then communicated to the viewing user for presentation on a client device . The sponsored story unit may be displayed to the viewing user in a variety of ways such as a newsfeed story a banner an interactive pop up or in association with an application associated with the social networking system executing on the client . In one embodiment the generated sponsored story unit may be paired with an advertisement. For example the story request from which the sponsored story unit is generated may identify an advertisement to be displayed with the sponsored story unit and the sponsored story unit is displayed along with the advertisement. In one embodiment the advertisement and sponsored story unit may be formatted such that they appear as a single unit.

The social networking system receives story requests from one or more advertisers or other entities. Each story request identifies one or more properties of content included in a sponsored story as described above in conjunction with . The properties identified by a story request may be properties of an object properties of an action sub properties of properties of an action sub properties of properties of an object or a combination of the preceding. Hence story requests allow advertisers to specify properties of the content such as an object and or an action included in a sponsored story unit to customize the content of sponsored stories presented to other users such as the viewing user.

The selection engine determines other users connected to the viewing user and accesses the user profiles associated with the users connected to the viewing user. From the accessed user profiles the selection engine identifies actions taken by the users connected to the viewing user and the objects on which the actions were performed. For example the selection engine determines user identifiers of the users connected to the viewing user and accesses the object data store and the action log to identify actions and or objects associated with the user identifiers. The selection engine accesses data from the object data store and or the action log describing one or more properties of the actions performed by the users connected to the viewing user and or properties of objects on which the actions were performed.

Based on the properties of actions and or objects included in story requests the selection engine selects candidate content for sponsored story units from the actions and or objects associated with the users connected to the viewing user. The selected candidate content includes actions and or objects having one or more of the properties specified by a sponsored story request. Thus candidate content includes one or more of an action performed by a user connected to the viewing user having a property from a story request an object on which a user connected to the viewing user performed an action having a property from a story request an action performed by a user connected to the viewing user having a sub property specified by a story request and or an object on which a user connected to the viewing user performed an action having a sub property specified by a story request.

After selecting candidate content the selection engine or the story generation engine selects story content for inclusion in a sponsored story unit for presentation to the viewing user. The story content includes an action performed by a user connected to the viewing user and an object on which the user connected to the viewing user performed the action. The story generation engine selects the story content using any suitable method such as those described above in conjunction with .

The story generation engine generates the sponsored story unit including the selected story content. Hence the generated sponsored story unit describes actions performed by one or more users connected to the viewing user on one or more objects where the actions and or the objects have one or more properties identified by a sponsored story request. In some embodiments the generated sponsored story unit includes interface elements enabling the viewing user to interact with the sponsored story unit. The story generation engine provides the sponsored story unit to a client device associated with the viewing user for display.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave which is tangible and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

