---

title: Method of fabricating an armor panel
abstract: A fabricating method for an armor panel uses a template to position tiles on an adhesive surface. The template includes an L-shaped frame and cells having precise wall thickness. Tiles are fitted in the cells against the surface. The template is repeatedly repositioned so new tiles can be fitted into unoccupied cells to form a desired tile array. A border is placed around the array, forming a cavity. Resin is poured into the cavity. A back plate placed over the array presses against the resin. Excess resin exits the cavity through an interface between the border and the adhesive surface and through a gap between the back plate and border. After the resin cures the border is removed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08673103&OS=08673103&RS=08673103
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08673103
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120203
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

The present invention generally relates to the manufacture of composite armor panels having ceramic tiles embedded therein.

A relevant item of prior art is U.S. Pat. No. 3 463 695 to Schweiker et al. Schweiker shows the use of an adhesive sheet to temporarily hold ceramic tiles in place. Schweiker uses a template to position the tiles so that they will be in fixed relation to each other on the adhesive sheet. The template is removed once the tiles are adhered to the adhesive sheet. The template is an array of cells closed at the bottom so as to form a tray much like an ice cube tray. However a cell array template open at both the top and bottom is shown by U.S. Pat. No. 3 254 417 to Carmichael. Placing an assembled array of armor tiles or ceramic armor elements in a cavity and then filling the cavity with resin is shown for example by U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 857 to Shih U.S. Pat. No. 4 307 140 to Davis Published Patent Application 2009 0269552 to Foldager and U.S. Pat. No. 6 826 996 to Strait. Note that Foldager shows spacing the back plate from the tiles prior to introduction of resin into the cavity or mold where the tile array is placed. Using an edge of a rectangular template and projections thereon to align the template with a straight edge formed by already laid floor tiles is shown by the Carmichael reference above.

The invention is a method of fabricating an armor panel with ceramic tiles embedded in the panel. An adhesive sheet or film is used to secure the ceramic tiles on a flat surface. Before placing the tiles on the sheet a template is placed on the sheet to control tile placement. The template is an array of hexagonal shaped cells open at the top and bottom the cells accommodating hexagonal tiles closely fitting therein and adhering to the sheet. Once the tiles are placed the template is removed and a border is placed around the assembly of tiles to form a cavity to contain resin and then resin is poured into the cavity. The resin fills the gaps between the tiles. A back plate is set over the assembly of tiles. Spacers are used to control the width of the gap between the back plate and the tiles. The resin fills the gap between the back plate and the tiles and the resin is cured.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material dimension characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

In is shown a template which is used in our method of fabricating armor panels. The purpose of the template is to place tiles in a planar array in very precise juxtaposition such that the spaces between tiles are exact and consistent the precise juxtaposition of the tiles is an important factor in facilitating predictable ultrasonic wave propagation during non destructive testing of the finished armor panel. The template includes thin walled cells as at which define pockets or openings into which ceramic tiles are inserted. The cells shown in are hexagonal in shape but the cells can have any other regular polygonal shapes such as squares or octagons for example. Cells are in a compact arrangement wherein no interstitial spaces exist among the cells. Typical cell wall thickness in template for our applications were in the range from 0.0020 to 0.0070 inches but this range can vary depending on the overall design of the finished armor panel and the desired ballistic traits of the panel. In order to facilitate ultrasonic nondestructive testing it is preferred in our applications that the cell walls thickness is precise and essentially constant and that wall thickness thus preferably varies by 0.0001 inch or less. There are numerous methods by which template can be fabricated with the desired accuracy of dimensions in our application the template was made of aluminum and was machined via a water jet process.

Template includes a generally L shaped frame which has two connected legs and perpendicular to each other. The frame borders only two sides of the array of cells . The remaining sides of the array of cells have no frame legs or members joined to them so that there are exposed cells along two edges of the template. One function of frame is simply to stiffen the array of cells which due to their thin walls can otherwise distort or parallelogram during usage. Frame also prevents the array of cells from bending out of plane so that the array maintains flatness. Preferably on the legs are pads and which are of uniform thickness and which space template from an engagement surface on which it is laid. The pads can be of various materials and in our application Velcro strips were used. It may be preferred that the pad have bumps or bristles on the side facing upon the engagement surface since that surface in our method has an adhesive face. The bumps or bristles minimize the template s contact with the engagement surface to facilitate the template s removal from the engagement surface after the template has been used to place tiles.

Sheet or the work surface upon which it is laid preferably has a high degree of flatness so that the larger opposed faces of the tiles the hexagonal faces in are flat and precisely coplanar one set of the faces being in a first facial plane parallel with a second facial plane containing the other set of faces. The sides of tiles are precisely perpendicular to the opposed faces. An available measure of flatness that can be used is Federal Specification GGG P463c Category A Inspection Grade and it is possible that Category B of that specification will also suffice. A greater degree of flatness in sheet and the resulting greater precision in positioning tiles creates a greater precision and consistency in the width of spaces . Hence the width of any space will not vary with distance from one of the facial planes. It is believed the greater consistency in width facilitates non destructive testing of finished armor panels via the use of ultrasonic wave propagation. Such a method for non destructive testing is not part of our invention but an armor panel constructed according to our invention can be non destructively tested by this kind of method.

There are numerous references concerning acoustic non destructive testing of manufactured articles. For example see U.S. Pat. No. 5 195 046 to Girardi et al. The method of nondestructive testing that we prefer is similar to that shown and discussed in the article Damage Detection in Composite Plate Armor Using Ultrasonic Techniques by Meitzler et al released August 17 2009 and available on line at http oai.dtic.mil. There is one difference between the method of the Meitzler article and the non destructive testing of a panel made by our method. Our finished composite armor panel has defined spaces or gaps between ceramic tiles and the spaces or gaps are filled with an elastomeric polyurethane resin. The portions of the resin between the tiles are sufficiently thick to absorb shock imparted to and emanating from one ceramic tile so that the shock does not affect neighboring tiles. The aforementioned article contemplates essentially no space between ceramic tiles there can be a very thin adhesive coating between the tiles but the tiles are pressed together as tightly as possible.

We have discovered that an ultrasonic wave or signal can be propagated through at least approximately six feet though a panel structure made according to our method where there are thin uniform spaces between tiles. An ultrasonic transducer in or on our structure thus can send ultrasonic waves or signals to another ultrasonic transducer several feet away in or on the same structure. The signals or waves arriving at the receiving transducer can be used to determine whether tiles in the structure have been damaged. The precision in the width of the elastomeric polyurethane resin portions between the tiles contributes to the consistency in the way waves or signals propagate through our structure. This consistency of propagation causes greater fidelity lower signal to noise ratio and fewer false readings in the waves or signals experienced by the receiving transducer.

It will be noted that there are bisected tile portions at the edges of the tile array shown in . Tile portions may be regarded as half sections of tiles . These portions can be placed in template to fit against three contiguous walls of any cell so that the tile portions are in precise alignment with tiles in the tile array and form straight edges along the borders of the array. shows an example of a complete array of tiles positioned in accordance with our method.

After the complete array of tiles is placed on sheet a border is placed on sheet around the array. As shown in border is essentially a rectangular frame much like a window frame the border being shown in heavier lines in in its position surrounding the array of tiles. Border has a depth greater than the height of tiles so that the array of tiles as seen in is recessed with respect to the border. The border preferably fits closely with the array of tiles and has preferably has a lesser degree of flatness than does sheet so that a controlled seepage of polyurethane resin can occur at the interface between border and sheet during a later step in our process. The border and sheet form a mold cavity into which polyurethane resin will be poured.

Spacers are placed on top of the array of tiles typically at or near corners of the array. The spacers are of a plastic material chemically similar to the aforementioned resin so that the spacers will not react differently from the resin to ultrasonic waves travelling through the finished composite armor panel during non destructive testing thus the spacers will not appear as a fault in the armor panel during the testing. Next an uncured polyurethane resin is poured into the cavity formed by border and sheet . This is typically was done under ambient conditions of pressure and at normal room temperatures usually 60 to 80 degrees. It is preferred that the resin be water like in fluidity and viscosity such that the resin flows easily into spaces between tiles and completely fill these spaces. It is possible to use resins having viscosity greater than water in their uncured state so long as the resin fills all of the spaces between tiles before the resin finishes curing. We have used resins that cure at room temperature but heat cured resins may used also. The cavity is filled to a slightly overflowed level that is the level of uncured resin will be slightly say one or two millimeters above spacers .

Before the resin cures a heavy steel back plate is placed over the array of tiles in the cavity as shown in . Back plate need not be of steel but could be made of other metals could be a composite armor plate or could be comprised of any ballistically effective material or combination of materials. The edges of back plate form a narrow circumferential gap with border so that as back plate is forced down into position atop spacers resin will escape through the gap. It is contemplated that the weight of back plate will often suffice to force the plate into its intended position atop spacers . In addition to resin escaping through gap resin will controlledly seep from the cavity through the interface between border and sheet until back plate comes to rest on spacers . The purpose of overfilling the cavity with resin and then forcing resin out of the cavity through the sheet border interface and through gap is to assure that the spaces between tiles are completely filled with resin. The advantage of gap and the aforementioned interface is that they eliminate the need for special fluid escape ducts conduits or channels to be incorporated into back plate sheet or border . In a sense the enclosure formed by sheet border and back plate is a ductless enclosure designated as in .

The resin used is typically one that cures at ambient or room temperature but resins that require oven curing may be used as well. Once the resin has cured the armor panel is removed from enclosure and flash formed in the aforementioned interface or in gap is removed.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

