---

title: Speaker segmentation and recognition based on list of speakers
abstract: A method is provided and includes estimating an approximate list of potential speakers in a file from one or more applications. The file (e.g., an audio file, video file, or any suitable combination thereof) includes a recording of a plurality of speakers. The method also includes segmenting the file according to the approximate list of potential speakers such that each segment corresponds to at least one speaker; and recognizing particular speakers in the file based on the approximate list of potential speakers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058806&OS=09058806&RS=09058806
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09058806
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of media content analytics and more particularly to a system and a method for improving speaker segmentation and recognition accuracy in a media processing environment.

The ability to effectively gather associate and organize information presents a significant obstacle for component manufacturers system designers and network operators. As new media content analytics platforms and technologies become available new protocols should be developed in order to optimize the use of these emerging platforms. With the emergence of high bandwidth networks and devices enterprises can optimize global collaboration through creation of videos and personalization of connections between customers partners employees and students through recordings of organizational communications video conferences and training sessions as well as through user generated video content. Widespread use of video and audio drives advances in technology for video audio processing video creation uploading searching and viewing.

A method is provided and includes estimating an approximate list of potential speakers in a file from one or more applications. In this context the term estimating is inclusive of any suitable evaluation analysis approximation appraising valuing or otherwise calculating an approximate list. The file e.g. an audio file video file or any suitable combination thereof includes a recording of a plurality of speakers. The method also includes segmenting e.g. inclusive of dividing apportioning splitting allotting distributing isolating separating the file according to the approximate list of potential speakers such that each segment corresponds to at least one speaker and recognizing particular speakers in the file based on the approximate list of potential speakers.

In more particular embodiments each one of the one or more applications comprise calendaring software having a respective list of attendees at a meeting and a recording of the meeting is included in the file. Additionally a first list of attendees estimated from a portion of the applications is extracted and merged with a second list of attendees estimated from other portions of the applications and the approximate list of potential speakers is compiled from the merged list of attendees.

In more detail instances the method can include revising the approximate list based on a social graph of at least one speaker in the approximate list segmenting the file according to the revised list and recognizing the particular speakers in the file based on the revised list. The social graph is created from information associated with the at least one speaker stored in a speaker database. The information can include any suitable data such as one or more of meetings attended by the at least one speaker other speakers at the meetings attendees at the meeting topic of the meeting subject matter of the meeting venue of the meeting emails sent and received by the at least one speaker recipients of the emails and subject matters of the emails.

In addition the revising of the approximate list can include identifying the at least one speaker in the approximate list reviewing the social graph of the identified speaker identifying a potential speaker from members in the social graph and adding the potential speaker to the revised list of potential speakers. The method could also include revising the approximate list based on a plurality of social graphs of a corresponding plurality of speakers.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating a media content analytics system for improving speaker segmentation and recognition accuracy in a media processing environment in accordance with one example embodiment. Media content analytics system includes a video source configured for providing video audio files to an applications delivery module which may include an analysis engine and a list of potential speakers . Video audio files can include video files and audio files in any suitable format e.g. 3GPP2 Multimedia file Audio Video Interleave file flash video file QuickTime movie file audio interchange file format Interchange file format Media Playlist file MPEG 4 audio file MIDI file etc. . As used herein the term speaker can include any animate or inanimate object e.g. person animal or thing that makes an audible sound e.g. speaks which is typically louder than a background noise. For example speakers e.g. persons may ask questions make statements exclaim or sing e.g. in a music recording during the course of a video or audio recording.

Applications delivery module can access a speaker database and applications . As used herein an application can be inclusive of an executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer. This could include library modules loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules. For example applications can include a suitable calendaring tool such as Microsoft Outlook Cisco WebEx or Google Calendar. Applications can also include databases comprising contact names departments role title and other information pertaining to potential speakers.

Analysis engine may use data from speaker database and applications to generate list of potential speakers . List of potential speakers may be used by a speaker segmentation module and a speaker recognition module to segment and identify speakers in the video audio files from video source . In many embodiments applications delivery module may include a search engine that searches video audio files in video source in response to a search query from front end . Front end may include a user interface to enable a user to search and analyze video audio files.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of media content analytics system it is important to understand the communications in a given system such as the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Speaker segmentation involves segmenting an audio or video file into speaker homogeneous chunks and then clustering those chunks into individual speakers. Speaker recognition involves comparing a test audio segment against a set of reference speaker models and picking the closest matching model. For example speaker segmentation technology is used in Cisco MXABU Video Content product to automatically discover speakers in videos. The discovered speakers are initially labeled by the end users. These labels are used to create and store speaker models in a speaker database.

As used herein speaker models can be any mathematical statistical or analytic model including voice recordings spectral graphs Gaussian mixture models etc. that characterize audio from a specific speakers. Each speaker may be associated with a unique speaker model. Speakers discovered in videos are compared against the models stored in the speaker database using speaker recognition technology. If there is a close match then the system automatically gives a label to the discovered speaker. Through such use of speaker segmentation and speaker recognition technology speaker metadata e.g. speaker identity time points at which a specific speaker speaks in a video audio file can be automatically created to enable viewers to more easily search and consume videos.

Speaker segmentation does not assume any prior knowledge about the number of speakers potentially leading to a large variation in segmentation accuracy. Additionally if the number of potential speakers in the video audio file were known a priori speaker segmentation would not produce significantly more speaker clusters than the expected number of speakers reducing variation in segmentation accuracy. Similarly speaker recognition accuracy can be related to the number of reference speaker models. A log linear relationship may exist between recognition error rate and number of speaker models. If there are a large number of reference models accuracy of the comparison can reduce because of increased confusion in the matching process. Additionally matching accuracy of speaker recognition may be improved if the number and identity of speakers are known a priori.

Speaker Segmentation and Recognition SSR algorithms generally perform two functions 1 segment the video into speaker homogeneous regions and 2 associate a speaker model from the stored database to each segment. Some SSR algorithms may use an acoustic distance computation to associate the speaker model to each segment. Even if the number or identity of speakers is known a priori SSR algorithms may have to process the video to perform segmentation and recognition functions. The processing may be relatively faster and more accurate if speaker identity is known than if speaker identity is unknown. For example SSR algorithms may not be accurate in any one of the following scenarios 1 when the number of speakers in the video file is unknown and 2 the speaker database contains a large number of speaker models. When the number of speakers in the video file is unknown segmentation becomes harder because SSR algorithms may have to rely entirely on acoustic similarity to determine the actual number of speakers. The larger the number of speakers in the speaker database the bigger the error in associating speaker models to segments using an acoustic match.

A solution to identify speaker models may include a wearable device which has speaker information associated with previous speakers that engaged the wearer of the device. When the wearer is near another person who has another wearable device the speaker information is transferred between the wearable devices resulting in a continually growing list of speaker models. For example after the wearer has met several people with such wearable devices the number of speaker models in his device will be very large. However the large number of speaker models can reduce speaker recognition accuracy.

Media content analytics system is configured to address these issues and others in offering a system and a method for improving speaker segmentation and recognition accuracy in a media processing environment. Embodiments of media content analytics system can estimate list of potential speakers from one or more applications and run SSR algorithms to segment the video audio file according to list of potential speakers . In various embodiments further accuracy may be achieved by compiling information from one or more social graphs to revise the estimate of list of potential speakers . As used herein the term social graph encompasses a quantitative or qualitative measure of relationships between people in a group. For example the social graph can be a mapping indicating interconnectedness of a person to his or her friends and relations in a social network. In another example the social graph can be a database of relationships between a person and his or her co workers in a company. In yet another example the social graph can be a list of interconnected people grouped according to common interests meetings attended geographical location or other parameters.

In various embodiments speaker database can include speaker models and other information relevant to the speakers who appear in videos from video source such as social graphs of speakers information about previous meetings attended by speakers e.g. obtained from applications including speaker identities meetings attended by the speakers topic of the meetings attendees at the meetings subject matter of the meetings and venues of the meeting. Any suitable information relevant to speakers may be included in speaker database . In many embodiments speaker database may include sufficient information to create social graphs of the speakers. Speaker database may include one or more separate databases files or other information storage systems within the broad scope of the embodiments. In an example embodiment speaker database may comprise a first database including speaker models a second database including social graphs and information about past meetings and a third database including updated information from a current video audio file under analysis.

According to embodiments of media content analytics system analysis engine may use an application context to extract information on the potential number and identity of speakers in a video audio file. The contextual information could include an invitation list for meetings the social graphs of possible meeting attendees or manual metadata containing the names of known speakers. Such contextual information can be used to constrain SSR algorithms executed by speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module leading to potential increase in SSR accuracy. For example by having an estimate of the number of speakers video segments can be iteratively clustered until the expected number of speakers is obtained and consequently segmentation by speaker segmentation module can be improved. Moreover if the number of speaker models is small a short list of actual speakers may be compared with their respective speaker models thereby increasing speaker recognition accuracy.

An example application of an embodiment of media content analytics system may include segmenting corporate videos such as meetings organizational communications and training videos where participants have well defined relationships e.g. manager intern officer executive San Jose office New York office etc. . In large corporations with several thousand employees and stakeholders the speakers in a particular corporate meeting e.g. shareholder meeting or all hands meeting could be any one of thousands of employees. Embodiments of media content analytics system can exploit the application context to reliably limit the number and identity of these employees to a few potential speakers thereby potentially significantly improving SSR accuracy.

For example a corporate meeting may be often set up using calendaring tools like Microsoft Outlook tool using which specific people are invited to attend. In many cases a subset of the invitees may actually attend and show up in the corresponding video file of the meeting recording. Sometimes people who were not invited through the calendaring tool may also attend the meeting. In such cases it is likely that the non invitees were invited by the invitees and are likely to be in the invitees respective social graphs within the organization. The social graphs can be constructed for example by looking up an organizational chart that includes all people in the invitees corresponding departments. The social graphs could also include speakers at previous meetings attended by the invitees or people the invitees have corresponded with via email related to the subject matter of the specific meeting. By using such information embodiments of media content analytics system can dramatically limit the number of speaker models for SSR algorithms.

In another example organizational communications meetings may have a few speakers. For example the speaker list may include the chief executive officer and a few vice presidents. Such speaker information can be used to limit the number of speaker models in corresponding video analysis including in SSR algorithms. Analysis engine may use the invitee list of meetings and the social graph of the attendees to create a subset of speakers in list of potential speakers thereby significantly improving speaker segmentation accuracy and speed. For example a small number of speaker models may be used for speaker recognition improving speaker recognition accuracy and speed by comparing a given speaker s data against a small subset of likely speakers. Embodiments of media content analytics system may further use manual metadata such as names of speakers in the organizational communication video to create a subset of speakers that can possibly be in the video thereby increasing SSR accuracy and speed.

In some embodiments information that is contextual to a video recording may be used to create e.g. in list of potential speakers a subset of speakers that can possibly be in the video. Improvement in SSR accuracy and speed may be achieved when the reduced number of potential speakers results in fewer computations and less confusion in the model matching process. According to various embodiments of media content analytics system the number of speaker models to be used in SSR algorithms may be reduced reliably for a broad range of videos possibly leading to significant improvement in accuracy and speed.

In some situations a short list of actual speakers may be already available or known a priori. The short list of actual speakers may be used to generate list of potential speakers . In such situations by having an estimate of the number of speakers segmentation by speaker segmentation module can be improved. Each segment may be compared against the few known speakers in list of potential speakers who may number in the tens rather than the thousands of speakers in speaker database . Because recognition errors increase with number of speaker models to be compared a potentially drastic reduction in error may be consequently achieved by speaker recognition module .

In some situations the invitee list in a meeting may be incomplete or inaccurate. People not on the invitee list may actually attend or speak at the meeting or only a handful of people from the invitee list e.g. all employees worldwide company.com may speak at the meeting. In such situations analysis engine may build a social graph for each speaker who has been identified with reasonable confidence as being in the meeting. The social graphs can be built by various mechanisms including by analyzing speaker labels from previously stored videos in speaker database .

In various embodiments the social graph of a specific speaker e.g. speaker A can consist of meetings attended by speaker A other speakers at the meetings relationship attendees at the meeting topics of the meetings subject matter of the meetings venues of the meetings relationships of speaker A to other speakers types of meetings number of speakers in the meetings and so on. The social graph can facilitate adding potential attendees or speakers to list of potential speakers even if they were not actually invited to the meeting. For example if Joe attended several meetings with Tom on a specific subject matter in the last month then it is likely that Joe will attend yet another meeting in the future with Tom to discuss the same subject matter. Such information can be captured by analysis engine to build list of potential speakers and enhance SSR performance of media content analytics system .

In another example scenario the invitee list for a specific meeting may be missing. Analysis engine can exploit social graphs to create an estimated list of potential speakers . In one example embodiment SSR algorithms can provide estimates of the identity of the dominant speaker and the number of speakers. Analysis engine may look up the social graph of the dominant speaker. The social graph may indicate a next dominant speaker at the meeting. For example the next dominant speaker may be a speaker who has communicated often e.g. via emails with the dominant speaker regarding the subject matter of the meeting and attended several meetings with the dominant speaker. The social graph can be created from other information also such as the subject of the meeting ETG All Hands . Any available information may be accessed to create and use the social graph to improve performance of SSR algorithms. Analysis engine may combine the social graphs of the two dominant speakers to update list of potential speakers e.g. derive more potential speakers from the combined social graphs and so on. List of potential speakers can improve the speaker segmentation as well as speaker recognition for the specific meeting.

For example a meeting may be recorded and stored as a video file in video source . The meeting may have been scheduled using Microsoft Outlook and Cisco WebEx calendaring tools. Applications delivery module may pull separate lists of meeting attendees from Microsoft Outlook and Cisco WebEx calendaring tools and merge them into a first list of potential speakers . Analysis engine may also generate or access social graphs of speakers in first list of potential speakers . Additional speakers determined from the social graphs may be added to first list of potential speakers . Analysis engine may provide first list of potential speakers to speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module . Speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module may run SSR algorithms on the video file using information from list of potential speakers .

Analysis engine may generate a second list of potential speakers from the SSR processing results. For example SSR algorithms may discover speakers other than those listed in first list of potential speakers . SSR algorithms may also indicate that some of the speakers listed in first list of potential speakers have not spoken at the meeting. Such addition and deletion of speakers may be captured in second list of potential speakers . Analysis engine may select the top N speakers from list of potential speakers to generate a third list of potential speakers . In various embodiments the number N of speakers may be based on a predetermined threshold e.g. top speakers top speakers etc. or it may be based on a relative contribution of the N speakers e.g. a length of time the discovered speakers speak in the video such as all speakers who speak for more than 2 minutes or speakers who cumulatively speak for more than 80 of the time compared to other speakers or it may be based on a system confidence in the speakers respective identities e.g. if a discovered speaker has two or more real speaker models merged into it a system confidence in the speaker s identity may be low or a combination thereof e.g. top speakers who speak for more than 2 minutes with a system confidence of more than 60 .

Analysis engine may augment first list of potential speakers based on third list of potential speakers and updated social graphs of the speakers to generate a fourth list of potential speakers . Because fourth list of potential speakers has been generated in a first iteration more iterations may be needed to improve accuracy of SSR algorithms. In the next iteration SSR algorithms may be run using list of potential speakers instead of list of potential speakers as in the first iteration. Updated lists of potential speakers and another list of potential speakers may be generated therefrom. List of potential speakers generated in the current iteration may be compared to list of potential speakers in the previous iteration. The iterations may be continued until list of potential speakers converges to a fixed list invariant with further iterations.

Embodiments of media content analytics system can also improve performance of SSR algorithms by fine tuning speaker database . As more speakers are identified their information e.g. name location department etc. may be added to speaker database . Such enhanced information may further assist additional SSR algorithms and social graph creation leading to improved SSR performance with increasing use.

Turning to the infrastructure of media content analytics system applications delivery module may include suitable components for video audio storage video audio processing and information retrieval functionalities. Examples of such components include servers with repository services that store digital content indexing services that allow searches client server systems disks image processing systems etc. In some embodiments components of applications delivery module may be located on a single network element in other embodiments components of applications delivery module may be located on more than one network element dispersed across various networks.

As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges load balancers firewalls processors modules or any other suitable device proprietary component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

Applications delivery module may support multi media content enable link representation to local external objects support advanced search and retrieval support annotation of existing information etc. Search engine may be configured to accept search query perform one or more searches of video content stored in applications delivery module or in video source and provide the search results to user over user interface . Analysis engine may suitably cooperate with speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module to segment videos and recognize speakers in the videos pulled up by search engine . List of potential speakers may be stored in applications delivery module or saved into an external storage device such as a disk hard drive memory stick etc. for use by speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module . Applications delivery module may facilitate integrating image and video processing and understanding speech recognition distributed data systems networks and human computer interactions in a comprehensive manner. Content based indexing and retrieval algorithms may be implemented in various embodiments of application delivery module to enable user to interact with videos from video source .

According to embodiments of the present disclosure elements of media content analytics system may represent a series of points or nodes of interconnected communication paths for receiving and transmitting packets of information which propagate through system . A node may be any electronic device user server peer service application or other object capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over communications channels in a network. Elements of media content analytics system may include network elements not shown that offer a communicative interface between servers and or users and may be any local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual LAN VLAN a virtual private network VPN a wide area network WAN or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. In other embodiments substantially all elements of media content analytics system may be located on one physical device e.g. camera server media processing equipment etc. that is configured with appropriate interfaces and computing capabilities to perform the operations described herein.

Elements of may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection wired or wireless which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications. Additionally any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs. Media content analytics system may include a configuration capable of TCP IP communications for the electronic transmission or reception of data packets in a network. Media content analytics system may also operate in conjunction with a User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition gateways routers switches and any other suitable service nodes physical or virtual may be used to facilitate electronic communication between various service nodes in the network.

In various embodiments video source may include any suitable repository for storing media files including web server enterprise server hard disk drives camcorder storage devices video cards etc. Media files may be stored in any file format including Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG Apple Quick Time Movie MOV Windows Media Video WMV Real Media RM etc. Suitable file format conversion mechanisms analog to digital conversions etc. and other elements to facilitate accessing media files may also be implemented in video source within the broad scope of the present disclosure.

In various embodiments elements of media content analytics system may be implemented as a stand alone solution with associated databases for video sources . Media content analytics system may also be implemented in conjunction with processors and memory for executing instructions associated with the various elements e.g. speaker segmentation module speaker recognition module etc. . The different elements in media content analytics system may communicate with each other using application programming interfaces APIs and shared memory. User may access the stand alone solution to initiate activities associated therewith. In other embodiments elements of media content analytics system may be dispersed across various networks that can include any number of users hosts storage servers routers gateways and other nodes inter connected to form a large and complex network.

The network environment may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include one or more networks and further may be configured in any form including but not limited to LANs WLANs VLANs MANs WANs VPNs Intranet Extranet any other appropriate architecture or system or any combination thereof that facilitates communications in a network. In some embodiments a communication link may represent any electronic link supporting a LAN environment such as for example cable Ethernet wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11x ATM fiber optics etc. or any suitable combination thereof. In other embodiments communication links may represent a remote connection through any appropriate medium e.g. digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof and or through any additional networks such as a wide area networks e.g. the Internet .

For example video source may be a web server located in an Internet cloud applications delivery module may be implemented on one or more enterprise servers and frontend may be implemented on a user device e.g. mobile devices personal computers electronic devices and any other device component element or object operable by a user and capable of initiating voice audio or video exchanges within system . User may run an application on the user device which may bring up user interface through which user may initiate the activities associated with media content analytics system . Myriad such implementation scenarios are possible within the broad scope of the embodiments. Embodiments of media content analytics system may leverage existing video repository systems e.g. Cisco Show and Share YouTube etc. incorporate existing media video tagging and speaker identification capability of existing devices e.g. as provided in Cisco MXE3500 Media Experience Engine and add features to allow users e.g. user to search video audio files for particular speakers.

Turning to front end through which user interacts with elements of media content analytics system user interface may be implemented using any suitable means for interaction such as a graphical user interface GUI a command line interface CLI web based user interfaces WUI touch screens keystrokes touch pads gesture interfaces display monitors etc. User interface may include hardware e.g. monitor display screen keyboard etc. and software components e.g. GUI CLI etc. . User interface may provide a means for input e.g. allowing user to manipulate media content analytics system and output e.g. allowing user to view videos among other uses . In various embodiments search query may allow user to input text strings matching conditions rules etc. For example search query may be populated using a customized form for inserting scene names identifiers etc. and speaker names. In another example search query may be populated using a natural language search term. Using search query user may search for specific users in video and audio files stored in or accessible from video source .

Note that the numerical and letter designations assigned to the elements of do not connote any type of hierarchy the designations are arbitrary and have been used for purposes of teaching only. Such designations should not be construed in any way to limit their capabilities functionalities or applications in the potential environments that may benefit from the features of media content analytics system . It should be understood that the media content analytics system shown in is simplified for ease of illustration.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of media content analytics system . Analysis engine may include a processor a memory element a merge logic module and a social graph module . Analysis engine may interface appropriately with applications and speaker database . Analysis engine may generate one or more list of potential speakers that may be sent to speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module . Analysis engine may also receive feedback from speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module .

In an example embodiment merge logic module may merge information from various applications to generate the first list of potential speakers . Social graph module may access speaker database to create or access social graphs of speakers included in list of potential speakers . The speakers indicated by the social graph may be included in list of potential speakers . SSR algorithms may be run by speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module using list of potential speakers . The second list of potential speakers may be generated from the SSR algorithms and pruned further to generate the third list of potential speakers . Social graph module may generate social graphs of speakers in list of potential speakers and possibly include certain other speakers in the list. List of potential speakers may be augmented based upon speakers in list of potential speakers to generate list of potential speakers . Iterative SSR algorithms may be run using list of potential speakers and the iterations continued until they converge on a list of potential speakers that can accurately represent the actual speakers in the video audio file under analysis.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of media content analytics system . Applications and are examples of applications . For example application may include a Microsoft Outlook calendaring tool application may include an internal company database application may include a Cisco WebEx calendaring tool. Various other applications may be used within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Merge logic module may interface suitably with myriad applications and combine information therefrom to generate list of potential speakers . For example invite list of application may indicate a list of invitees from whom potential speakers may be shortlisted suitably by SSR algorithms and other operations. Application may provide a list of people who may attend a departmental all hands meeting. Attendees of application may indicate potential attendees and speakers of a meeting. In some scenarios more than one application may be used to generate list of potential speakers . For example a departmental meeting in a company may include by default all workers in the department workers from other departments may be invited to the meeting to present participate or observe. Merge logic module may determine list of potential speakers by merging information from application and application for example. In various embodiments merge logic module may include appropriate interfaces including suitable application programming interfaces APIs to enable interfacing with various disparate applications and collect data therefrom.

Speaker segmentation module may use list of potential speakers to run segmentation algorithms on video audio file . Output from speaker segmentation module may be fed to speaker recognition module which may use information e.g. speaker models from speaker database and list of potential speakers to recognize speakers in the various segments. Based upon the SSR processing segmentation speaker metadata may be generated and tagged to video audio file . User may be able to search subsequently for specific speakers and corresponding time segments during consumption of video audio file based on segmentation speaker metadata .

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of media content analytics system . Social graph module may access speaker database and a social graph stored in speaker database . In various embodiments social graph may include speaker identity e.g. name types of relationships e.g. friend co worker relation relationship identity e.g. friends interested in sewing co workers at New York office co workers at San Jose office etc. Nodes in social graph may represent the speaker and the edges may represent relationships. Edges may have different weights suggesting disparate relationship identities and relationship types.

Social graph may be generated by any known mechanisms including suitable APIs driven by page rank like algorithms evaluating relationships through available social graph related open standards and the like. In one example embodiment social graph may be generated from emails sent by speakers to others. Clusters of contacts may be identified from the emails e.g. by looking at the email recipients . In one example the clusters may be related in some useful way e.g. all recipients work in the same department . Social graph may be stored in speaker database in any suitable format including XML text and database formats. In many embodiments social graph module may aggregate disparate social graph s stored in speaker database .

Social graph may indicate additional speakers to list of potential speakers . For example a member of speaker A s social group may be present and may speak at a meeting where speaker A also speaks although the member may not have been invited to the meeting or the member s name did not show up in any suitable applications used to generate list of potential speakers . Information from social graph may be used by social graph module to populate and or update list of potential speakers . Video audio file may be processed by speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module using list of potential speakers that has been updated appropriately using social graph . Information pertaining to the segmentation and recognition results may be populated into segmentation speaker metadata .

Turning to is a simplified flow chart illustrating example operations that may be associated with embodiments of media content analytics system . Operations may start at when media content analytics system is activated. At video audio file may be received at analysis engine . At analysis engine may estimate an approximate list of potential speakers from applications . At speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module may run SSR algorithms suitably using approximate list of potential speakers . At a determination may be made whether a convergence criterion e.g. substantially all identifiable speakers identified has been met. If not additional speakers may be compiled from social graphs of one or more speakers listed in list of potential speakers at . At list of potential speakers may be revised accordingly. The operations may revert back to and SSR algorithms may be run with the revised list of potential speakers . The iterations may continue until the convergence criterions is met at at which point the operations may end at .

Turning to is a simplified flow chart illustrating example operations that may be associated with generating list of potential speakers from applications . Operations may include 122 at which list of attendees in applications may be extracted by analysis engine . At merge logic module may merge list of attendees from various applications . At analysis engine may compile list of potential speakers from the merged list.

Turning to is a simplified flow chart illustrating example operations that may be associated with generating list of potential speakers from social graph . Operations may include 152 at which media content analytics system may store information about speakers including meetings attended other speakers at those meetings attendees topic venue etc. in speaker database . At social graph module may create social graphs of speakers from the information stored in speaker database pertaining to speakers listed in list of potential speakers . At a specific speaker at a meeting may be identified e.g. from applications user entered data SSR algorithms etc. . At a determination may be made e.g. through SSR algorithms whether any new speakers have been identified.

If any new speaker has been identified at the identified speaker may be added to or used to generate list of potential speakers . At the identified speaker s social graph may be reviewed. At a potential speaker at the meeting may be identified from members in social graph . The operations may revert to and continue thereafter until no new speakers have been identified at . When no new speakers are identified at the operations may step to at which list of potential speakers may be compiled e.g. finalized and speaker database can be updated at with updated social graphs based on compiled list of potential speakers .

Turning to is a simplified flow chart of example operations associated with an embodiment of media content analytics system . Operations may start at at which video audio file may be retrieved from video source . At analysis engine may create a first list of potential speakers e.g. List using application data from applications and social graph s . At speaker segmentation module and speaker recognition module may run SSR algorithms on video audio file using information from list of potential speakers . At iterations may be initialized e.g. iteration number may be set to 1 .

At analysis engine may derive a second list of potential speakers e.g. List from the SSR results. At analysis engine may select the top N speakers from list of potential speakers based on relative contribution of the N speakers and system confidence e.g. in identifying the N speakers to generate a third list of potential speakers e.g. List . At analysis engine may augment first list of potential speakers based on third list of potential speakers and updated social graphs of speakers to generate a fourth list of potential speakers e.g. List . At list of potential speakers from the current iteration e.g. iteration 1 may be compared to list of potential speakers from previous iterations. For the first iteration operations may continue to at which the iteration counter is advanced by 1 e.g. iteration iteration 1 .

At SSR algorithms may be run using list of potential speakers instead of list of potential speakers as in the first iteration. The operations may step to . Updated lists of potential speakers and another list of potential speakers may be generated therefrom. List of potential speakers generated in the current iteration e.g. iteration 2 may be compared to list of potential speakers generated in the previous iteration e.g. iteration 1 and the operations may continue until list of potential speakers converges to a consistent list. When list of potential speakers from two consecutive iterations are substantially similar the operations may end at .

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments.

In example implementations at least some portions of the activities outlined herein may be implemented in software in for example applications delivery module . In some embodiments one or more of these features may be implemented in hardware provided external to these elements or consolidated in any appropriate manner to achieve the intended functionality. The various network elements may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments these elements may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Furthermore applications delivery module described and shown herein and or its associated structures may also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment. Additionally some of the processors and memory elements associated with the various service nodes may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory element are responsible for certain activities. In a general sense the arrangements depicted in the FIGURES may be more logical in their representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations and or hybrids of these elements. It is imperative to note that countless possible design configurations can be used to achieve the operational objectives outlined here. Accordingly the associated infrastructure has a myriad of substitute arrangements design choices device possibilities hardware configurations software implementations equipment options etc.

In some of example embodiments one or more memory elements e.g. memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software logic code etc. in non transitory computer readable media such that the instructions are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example processors e.g. processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In operation components in media content analytics system can include one or more memory elements e.g. memory element for storing information to be used in achieving operations as outlined herein. These devices may further keep information in any suitable type of non transitory storage medium e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM field programmable gate array FPGA erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked sent received or stored in media content analytics system could be provided in any database register table cache queue control list or storage structure based on particular needs and implementations all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols media content analytics system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although media content analytics system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of media content analytics system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

