---

title: Eye tracking based selectively backlighting a display
abstract: Systems, apparatus, articles, and methods are described including operations for eye tracking based selective backlighting of a display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361833&OS=09361833&RS=09361833
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09361833
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120412
---
The display is typically a component that presents unique difficulties for power management. The display typically represents the largest power consumer after the central processing unit. The display exists solely for the purpose of user interaction and therefore it is only necessary when someone is looking at it. There are many times when a user may turn his attention away from a computer display perhaps to answer a phone call or get a cup of coffee. There are also scenarios in which the display is only used briefly or not at all for a particular application. For example someone using a computing device to play music may only interact with the device to select a song.

Therefore efficient management of display lighting dimming is typically based on a time out scheme controlled by user explicit key board mouse inputs. Such time out schemes are typically aimed at predicting the user s need of display via the usage of the computer.

One or more embodiments or implementations are now described with reference to the enclosed figures. While specific configurations and arrangements are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. Persons skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other configurations and arrangements may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the description. It will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art that techniques and or arrangements described herein may also be employed in a variety of other systems and applications other than what is described herein.

While the following description sets forth various implementations that may be manifested in architectures such system on a chip SoC architectures for example implementation of the techniques and or arrangements described herein are not restricted to particular architectures and or computing systems and may be implemented by any architecture and or computing system for similar purposes. For instance various architectures employing for example multiple integrated circuit IC chips and or packages and or various computing devices and or consumer electronic CE devices such as set top boxes smart phones. etc. may implement the techniques and or arrangements described herein. Further while the following description may set forth numerous specific details such as logic implementations types and interrelationships of system components logic partitioning integration choices etc. claimed subject matter may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances some material such as for example control structures and full software instruction sequences may not be shown in detail in order not to obscure the material disclosed herein.

The material disclosed herein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. The material disclosed herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any medium and or mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. and others.

References in the specification to one implementation an implementation an example implementation etc. indicate that the implementation described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every implementation may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same implementation. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an implementation it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other implementations whether or not explicitly described herein.

Systems apparatus articles and methods are described below including operations for eye tracking based selective backlighting of a display.

As described above efficient management of display lighting dimming is typically based on a time out scheme controlled by user explicit key board mouse inputs. Such time out schemes are typically aimed at predicting the user s need of display via the usage of the computer. This scheme may not be appropriate for some usages e.g. especially the ones where the usage is passive such as where the user does not need to provide explicit keyboard mouse input for efficient usage . For example a user reading an electronic book or examining a web page with complex content might experience the annoying behavior of the display dimming due to time out due to keyboard or mouse inactivity. The same problem may exist for a user watching a video or an automated slide show. These are situations where the user interaction may be dependent on the display but may not be tied to user interface input events.

Moreover in several usage scenarios the user looks at a very specific area on the screen e.g. when reading a novel an article via an eBook or watching a video where the user may only need to see only a small portion of the screen that is relevant to the reading or video watching experience. The region of interest in these cases may be reduced drastically based on the type or usage e.g. only the lines that are currently being read in a novel or article may need to be backlit .

Methods for partial screen dimming e.g. backlighting of only the portion of the screen that is being used have been proposed but they have not been widely adopted. For example methods for partial screen dimming have been proposed based on mouse tracking. Such mouse tracking may not have been widely adopted since it requires physical input from the user in order to trigger the partial dimming to explicitly highlight the areas of interest e.g. via mouse cursor .

As will be described in greater detail below operations for selectively backlighting may utilize eye gaze tracking for implicit and accurate identification of the area of interest for partial backlighting respectively partial dimming . Additionally dim the all or part of a display may be based on user gaze information mapped on the display. In other words the user gaze may implicitly controls the dimming thus naturally backlighting only the area on the screen that the user is looking at. Usage of such gaze information is a more accurate means to determine the user activity in front of the computer than other conventional means i.e. keyboard or mouse clicks which may be misleading in several use cases e.g. eBook reading or video watching . Additionally user gaze information may be a more accurate means to determine which area of the screen to backlight providing a more natural and user friendly means for implementing a partial screen dimming feature.

Implicit backlighting of areas of interest based on eye tracking may have several advantages. For example such operations may extend the control of display dimming capability currently triggered by conventional timeout scheme which is typically based on lack of user input as interpreted by lack of keyboard mouse inputs via dimming the display based on an absence of user gaze on display. In some implementations even if there is no explicit touch screen keyboard and or mouse input given by the user e.g. as might often be the case in eBook reading user experience the display may not be dimmed if the user gaze is on the screen based on eye tracking. Such control of display dimming based on an absence of user gaze on display instead of lack of user input for a predefined time period may enhance the usability and also power savings. For example power savings may be realized in cases where the display is dimmed based on an absence of user gaze prior to wait for the time out period for dimming to expire e.g. dimming immediately when user presence is not detected . Thus such control may improve the usability of power management features by matching the dimming to user s own behavior instead of or in addition to predicting user s inactivity via a timeout scheme based on explicit inputs provided via touch screen keyboard and or mouse.

Further eye tracking may be utilized to extend the dimming capability by providing partial dimming of the display e.g. backlighting only the area on the screen where the user gaze lays on. Moreover power saving may be realized from backlighting only the area on the screen where the user gaze lays on. For example the partial dimming of the display based on determination of the area that needs to be lighted via user gaze information may provide further power savings. Such gaze based partial dimming may overcome usability issues faced in implementations where the dimming lighting was governed by the region around a cursor area. Gaze based partial dimming may provide the effect of utilizing gaze as an acute flashlight on the display resulting in backlighting the area of interest e.g. the lines that are being read . Such eye tracking based solutions are intuitive and do not request additional inputs from the user instead only the regions of the display that the user inherently looks at are lighted.

Additionally such eye tracking based partial dimming provides new user experience. For example the user can focus on what is being read or watched via lighting of only the areas of interest which may assist in focusing the user s attention.

Imaging device may be configured to capture visual data from one or more users of backlight system . For example imaging device may be configured to capture visual data from a first user a second user from one or more additional users the like and or combinations thereof. In some examples imaging device may be located on backlight system so as to be capable of viewing users while users are viewing display .

In some examples visual data of the first user may be captured via a camera sensor type imaging device or the like e.g. a complementary metal oxide semiconductor type image sensor CMOS or a charge coupled device type image sensor CCD without the use of a red green blue RGB depth camera and or microphone array to locate who is speaking. In other examples an RGB Depth camera and or microphone array might be used in addition to or in the alternative to the camera sensor. In some examples imaging device may be provided via either a peripheral eye tracking camera or as an integrated a peripheral eye tracking camera in backlight system .

In operation backlight system may utilize visual data inputs to be capable of determining which portions of display to backlight. Accordingly backlight system may be capable of performing selective backlighting by leveraging visual information processing techniques. For example backlight system may receive visual data from imaging device from one or more users . A determination may be made regarding which portions of display to backlight based at least in part on the received visual data.

In some examples such selective backlighting may include selectively backlighting an area of display based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element . As used herein the term discrete display element may refer to an identifiable and separate item being displayed. For example discrete display element may include a text box a paragraph of text a default number of text lines a picture a menu the like and or combinations thereof. As illustrated discrete display elements might include several paragraphs of text and or several pictures.

In some examples eye tracking may be performed for at least one of the one or more users . For example the eye tracking may be performed based at least in part on the received visual data . A region of interest may be determined where the region of interest may be associated with a portion of display of the backlight system . For example the determination of the region of interest may be based at least in part on the performed eye tracking.

The portion of display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlight and a secondary portion of the display that is not associated with the determined region of interest may be dimmed e.g. as is illustrated via shading in .

In some examples backlight system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area corresponding with region of interest based at least in part on associating region of interest with a discrete display element . Additionally or alternatively backlight system may operate so that the selective backlighting may include selectively backlighting an area corresponding with region of interest based at least in part on a default area size. For example an area corresponding with region of interest might have a default shape and proportion such as a default rectangular oval or other shape.

In some examples backlight system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning off a previously lit portion of backlighting associated with the secondary portion of the display. Additionally or alternatively backlight system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning on a previously dimmed portion of backlighting associated with the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest.

As will be discussed in greater detail below backlight system may be used to perform some or all of the various functions discussed below in connection with .

Process may begin at block RECEIVE VISUAL DATA where visual data may be received. For example the received visual data may include video of one or more users.

Processing may continue from operation to operation PERFORM EYE TRACKING where eye tracking may be performed. For example eye tracking may be performed for at least one of the one or more users based at least in part on the received visual data.

In some examples such eye tracking may include tracking fixations and or gazes. As used herein the term gaze may refer to a fleeting glance while the term fixation may refer to a sustained glance maintained for a time period longer than for that of a gaze.

Fixations are observations of a certain point in the visual field. This input spanning about two degrees of the visual field is the only input which is processed with sharpness clarity and accuracy. There are typically about three to four fixations per second with duration of about two hundred to three hundred milliseconds each. For example a fixation may include several closely grouped gaze points where such gazes may typically have a duration of about seventeen milliseconds.

Saccades relocate the point of fixation. They are fast ballistic movements i.e. the target is decided before initiation . They typically have amplitude of up to about twenty degrees and duration of about forty milliseconds during which there is a suppression of the visual stimulus .

Fixations and saccades may be utilized for gathering and integrating visual information. They also reflect the intentions and cognitive states of a person.

In one example gaze duration on a display element e.g. word sentence specific column row at a text area and or image may be determined. For example such gaze duration may be based on a determination of the proportion of time spent looking at a given display element.

In another example such eye tracking may include determining the number of fixations on the area of interest for a given time window e.g. the last minute in relation to a given display element. For example such fixations may illustrate the proportion of interest on the area of interest of the display element e.g. word sentence specific column row at a text area and or image as compared to other areas in the text or display area. This metric may indicate the importance of the area to the viewer and may be directly related to a gaze rate.

In a further example such eye tracking may include determining the number of gazes on the area of interest for a given time window. For example such a determination of the number of gazes may illustrate the proportion of gazes on the area of interest of a display element as compared to other areas in the text or display area. The number of gazes can be measured as the concatenation of successive fixations within the area of interest defining a display or text element and provide an indication of the importance of the display item to a user and may be used to trigger selective backlighting.

Processing may continue from operation to operation DETERMINE A REGION OF INTEREST where a region of interest may be determined. For example the region of interest associated with a portion of the display of the computer system based at least in part on the performed eye tracking

Processing may continue from operation to operation SELECTIVELY BACKLIGHT THE PORTION OF THE DISPLAY ASSOCIATED WITH THE DETERMINED REGION OF INTEREST where the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlit. For example the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlit while a secondary portion of the display that is not associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively dimmed.

In operation process may utilize smart and context aware responses to user visual queues. For example process may be capable of telling where a user s attention is focused to responsively backlight only portions of a given display.

Some additional and or alternative details related to process may be illustrated in one or more examples of implementations discussed in greater detail below with regard to .

In the illustrated implementation backlight system may include display imaging device logic modules the like and or combinations thereof. Although backlight system as shown in may include one particular set of blocks or actions associated with particular modules these blocks or actions may be associated with different modules than the particular module illustrated here.

Process may begin at block DETERMINE IF APPLICATION IS DESIGNATED FOR EYE TRACKING where a determination may be made as to whether a given application has been designated for eye tracking. For example an application currently being presented on display may or may not have been designated for operation with eye tracking based selective dimming.

In some examples given applications may have a default mode e.g. eye tracking on or eye tracking off that will enable the feature for all the applications some categories of applications e.g. text based applications may be defaulted to having eye tracking on while video based applications may be defaulted to having eye tracking off or an application by application basis. Additionally or alternatively user selection may be utilized to enable or disable the feature for all the applications some categories of applications or an application by application basis. For example a user may be prompted to enable or disable the feature.

Processing may continue from operation to operation CAPTURE IMAGE DATA where image data may be captured. For example capturing of image data may be performed via imaging device . In some examples such capturing of image data may be performed in response to a determination at operation that application currently being presented on display has been designated for operation with eye tracking based selective dimming.

Processing may continue from operation to operation TRANSFER IMAGE DATA where image data may be transferred. For example image data may be transferred from imaging device to logic modules .

Processing may continue from operation to operation . RECEIVE VISUAL DATA where visual data may be received. For example the received visual data may include video of one or more users.

Processing may continue from operation to operation DETERMINE USER PRESENCE where the presence or non presence of a user may be determined. For example a determination may be made whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present occurs in response to the determination at operation that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking.

For example process may include facial detection where a face of user may be detected. For example the face of the one or more users may be detected based at least in part on visual data. In some examples such face detection may be configured to differentiate between the one or more users. Such facial detection techniques may allow relative accumulations to include face detection eye tracking landmark detection face alignment smile blink gender age detection face recognition detecting two or more faces and or the like.

Processing may continue from operation and or to operation PERFORM EYE TRACKING where eye tracking may be performed. For example eye tracking may be performed for at least one of the one or more users based at least in part on the received visual data. For example the performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination at operation that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users. Additionally or alternatively the performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination at operation that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking.

Processing may continue from operation to operation DETERMINE A REGION OF INTEREST where a region of interest may be determined. For example the region of interest associated with a portion of the display of the computer system may be based at least in part on the performed eye tracking.

Processing may continue from operation to operation SELECTIVELY BACKLIGHT where the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlit. For example the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlit while a secondary portion of the display that is not associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively dimmed.

In some examples process may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element where the discrete display element includes a text box a paragraph of text a default number of text lines a picture a menu the like and or combinations thereof. For example a backlighting area may be determined based on vicinity defined by a given radius circle centered at the location of the gaze a predefined number of lines up and down from a central gaze location a certain percentage area of the total display from a central gaze location an entire paragraph of text and entire image or the like.

Processing may continue from operation to operation . SELECTIVELY BACKLIGHT DISPLAY where display may present a user with a selectively backlit portion of display . For example the selective backlighting may include selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on a default area size. Additionally or alternatively the selective backlighting may include selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element.

In some examples operation may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning off a previously lit portion of backlighting associated with the secondary portion of the display. For example in cases where the user s gaze is not on this region of display for a period of time such a region may have its backlighting reduced or turned off. Additionally or alternatively operation may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning on a previously dimmed portion of backlighting associated with the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest.

Processing may continue from operation to operation COMPLETELY DIM where. For example display may be completely dimmed in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination at operation that none of the one or more users is present. Additionally or alternatively operation may include completely dimming display in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination at operation that none of the one or more users eyes are directed at the display in response to the performed eye tracking.

Processing may continue from operation to operation . COMPLETELY DIM DISPLAY where display may be completely dimmed. For example such complete dimming may include turning off of display or partially dimming the entire display to a lowered light level.

In operation process may determine which applications will be registered to perform with partial dimming. Process may determine an area to be selectively backlit by initially marking the full display initially as region for backlighting and tracking a user s gaze when eye tracking is on for an active application e.g. an application that is on the foreground of the system and it is determined that a user is present. Process may compute gaze data e.g. x y coordinates of gaze on display and an associated time stamp of the gaze . In cases where the x y coordinates of the gaze are within the region of the displayed application a region of backlighting may be determined and a partial dim function may turn off previous backlighting based on gaze history on display .

While implementation of example processes and as illustrated in may include the undertaking of all blocks shown in the order illustrated the present disclosure is not limited in this regard and in various examples implementation of processes and may include the undertaking only a subset of the blocks shown and or in a different order than illustrated.

In addition any one or more of the blocks of may be undertaken in response to instructions provided by one or more computer program products. Such program products may include signal bearing media providing instructions that when executed by for example a processor may provide the functionality described herein. The computer program products may be provided in any form of computer readable medium. Thus for example a processor including one or more processor core s may undertake one or more of the blocks shown in in response to instructions conveyed to the processor by a computer readable medium.

As used in any implementation described herein the term module refers to any combination of software firmware and or hardware configured to provide the functionality described herein. The software may be embodied as a software package code and or instruction set or instructions and hardware as used in any implementation described herein may include for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry state machine circuitry and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The modules may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms part of a larger system for example an integrated circuit IC system on chip SoC and so forth.

In some examples imaging device may be configured to capture visual data. Processors may be communicatively coupled to display and to imaging device . Memory stores may be communicatively coupled to processors . Visual data logic module eye tracking logic module region of interest logic module selective backlighting logic module user presence logic module and or complete dimming logic module may be communicatively coupled to processors and or memory stores .

In some examples visual data logic module may be configured to receive visual data where the visual data includes video of one or more users. Eye tracking logic module may be configured to perform eye tracking for at least one of the one or more users based at least in part on the received visual data. Region of interest logic module may be configured to determine a region of interest associated with a portion of display based at least in part on the performed eye tracking. Selective backlighting logic module may be configured to selectively backlight the portion of display associated with the determined region of interest and dim a secondary portion of display that is not associated with the determined region of interest.

In some examples logic modules may include user presence logic module that may be configured to determine whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data. For example the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present may occur in response to a determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. In some examples the performance of eye tracking via eye tracking logic module may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users.

In some examples logic modules may include complete dimming logic module that may be configured to completely dim display in response to the received visual data. For example complete dimming logic module may be configured to completely dim display based at least in part on a determination via user presence logic module that none of the one or more users is present. Additionally or alternatively complete dimming logic module may be configured to completely dim display based at least in part on a determination via eye tracking logic module that none of the one or more users eyes are directed at the display in response to the performed eye tracking.

In various embodiments selective backlighting logic module and or complete dimming logic module may be implemented in hardware while software may implement visual data logic module eye tracking logic module region of interest logic module and or user presence logic module . For example in some embodiments selective backlighting logic module and or complete dimming logic module may be implemented by ASIC logic while visual data logic module eye tracking logic module region of interest logic module and or user presence logic module may be provided by software instructions executed by logic such as processors . However the present disclosure is not limited in this regard and eye tracking logic module region of interest logic module selective backlighting logic module user presence logic module and or complete dimming logic module may be implemented by any combination of hardware firmware and or software. In addition memory stores may be any type of memory such as volatile memory e.g. Static Random Access Memory SRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM etc. or non volatile memory e.g. flash memory etc. and so forth. In a non limiting example memory stores may be implemented by cache memory.

In various implementations system includes a platform coupled to a display . Platform may receive content from a content device such as content services device s or content delivery device s or other similar content sources. A navigation controller including one or more navigation features may be used to interact with for example platform and or display . Each of these components is described in greater detail below.

In various implementations platform may include any combination of a chipset processor memory storage graphics subsystem applications and or radio . Chipset may provide intercommunication among processor memory storage graphics subsystem applications and or radio . For example chipset may include a storage adapter not depicted capable of providing intercommunication with storage .

Processor may be implemented as a Complex Instruction Set Computer CISC or Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC processors x86 instruction set compatible processors multi core or any other microprocessor or central processing unit CPU . In various implementations processor may be dual core processor s dual core mobile processor s and so forth.

Memory may be implemented as a volatile memory device such as but not limited to a Random Access Memory RAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM or Static RAM SRAM .

Storage may be implemented as a non volatile storage device such as but not limited to a magnetic disk drive optical disk drive tape drive an internal storage device an attached storage device flash memory battery backed up SDRAM synchronous DRAM and or a network accessible storage device. In various implementations storage may include technology to increase the storage performance enhanced protection for valuable digital media when multiple hard drives are included for example.

Graphics subsystem may perform processing of images such as still or video for display. Graphics subsystem may be a graphics processing unit GPU or a visual processing unit VPU for example. An analog or digital interface may be used to communicatively couple graphics subsystem and display . For example the interface may be any of a High Definition Multimedia Interface DisplayPort wireless HDMI and or wireless HD compliant techniques. Graphics subsystem may be integrated into processor or chipset . In some implementations graphics subsystem may be a stand alone card communicatively coupled to chipset .

The graphics and or video processing techniques described herein may be implemented in various hardware architectures. For example graphics and or video functionality may be integrated within a chipset. Alternatively a discrete graphics and or video processor may be used. As still another implementation the graphics and or video functions may be provided by a general purpose processor including a multi core processor. In further embodiments the functions may be implemented in a consumer electronics device.

Radio may include one or more radios capable of transmitting and receiving signals using various suitable wireless communications techniques. Such techniques may involve communications across one or more wireless networks. Example wireless networks include but are not limited to wireless local area networks WLANs wireless personal area networks WPANs wireless metropolitan area network WMANs cellular networks and satellite networks. In communicating across such networks radio may operate in accordance with one or more applicable standards in any version.

In various implementations display may include any television type monitor or display. Display may include for example a computer display screen touch screen display video monitor television like device and or a television. Display may be digital and or analog. In various implementations display may be a holographic display. Also display may be a transparent surface that may receive a visual projection. Such projections may convey various forms of information images and or objects. For example such projections may be a visual overlay for a mobile augmented reality MAR application. Under the control of one or more software applications platform may display user interface on display .

In various implementations content services device s may be hosted by any national international and or independent service and thus accessible to platform via the Internet for example. Content services device s may be coupled to platform and or to display . Platform and or content services device s may be coupled to a network to communicate e.g. send and or receive media information to and from network . Content delivery device s also may be coupled to platform and or to display .

In various implementations content services device s may include a cable television box personal computer network telephone Internet enabled devices or appliance capable of delivering digital information and or content and any other similar device capable of unidirectionally or bidirectionally communicating content between content providers and platform and display via network or directly. It will be appreciated that the content may be communicated unidirectionally and or bidirectionally to and from any one of the components in system and a content provider via network . Examples of content may include any media information including for example video music medical and gaming information and so forth.

Content services device s may receive content such as cable television programming including media information digital information and or other content. Examples of content providers may include any cable or satellite television or radio or Internet content providers. The provided examples are not meant to limit implementations in accordance with the present disclosure in any way.

In various implementations platform may receive control signals from navigation controller having one or more navigation features. The navigation features of controller may be used to interact with user interface for example. In embodiments navigation controller may be a pointing device that may be a computer hardware component specifically a human interface device that allows a user to input spatial e.g. continuous and multi dimensional data into a computer. Many systems such as graphical user interfaces GUI and televisions and monitors allow the user to control and provide data to the computer or television using physical gestures.

Movements of the navigation features of controller may be replicated on a display e.g. display by movements of a pointer cursor focus ring or other visual indicators displayed on the display. For example under the control of software applications the navigation features located on navigation controller may be mapped to virtual navigation features displayed on user interface for example. In embodiments controller may not be a separate component but may be integrated into platform and or display . The present disclosure however is not limited to the elements or in the context shown or described herein.

In various implementations drivers not shown may include technology to enable users to instantly turn on and off platform like a television with the touch of a button after initial boot up when enabled for example. Program logic may allow platform to stream content to media adaptors or other content services device s or content delivery device s even when the platform is turned off. In addition chipset may include hardware and or software support for 5.1 surround sound audio and or high definition 7.1 surround sound audio for example. Drivers may include a graphics driver for integrated graphics platforms. In embodiments the graphics driver may comprise a peripheral component interconnect PCI Express graphics card.

In various implementations any one or more of the components shown in system may be integrated. For example platform and content services device s may be integrated or platform and content delivery device s may be integrated or platform content services device s and content delivery device s may be integrated for example. In various embodiments platform and display may be an integrated unit. Display and content service device s may be integrated or display and content delivery device s may be integrated for example. These examples are not meant to limit the present disclosure.

In various embodiments system may be implemented as a wireless system a wired system or a combination of both. When implemented as a wireless system system may include components and interfaces suitable for communicating over a wireless shared media such as one or more antennas transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic and so forth. An example of wireless shared media may include portions of a wireless spectrum such as the RF spectrum and so forth. When implemented as a wired system system may include components and interfaces suitable for communicating over wired communications media such as input output I O adapters physical connectors to connect the I O adapter with a corresponding wired communications medium a network interface card NIC disc controller video controller audio controller and the like. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit board PCB backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics and so forth.

Platform may establish one or more logical or physical channels to communicate information. The information may include media information and control information. Media information may refer to any data representing content meant for a user. Examples of content may include for example data from a voice conversation videoconference streaming video electronic mail email message voice mail message alphanumeric symbols graphics image video text and so forth. Data from a voice conversation may be for example speech information silence periods background noise comfort noise tones and so forth. Control information may refer to any data representing commands instructions or control words meant for an automated system. For example control information may be used to route media information through a system or instruct a node to process the media information in a predetermined manner. The embodiments however are not limited to the elements or in the context shown or described in .

As described above system may be embodied in varying physical styles or form factors. illustrates implementations of a small form factor device in which system may be embodied. In embodiments for example device may be implemented as a mobile computing device having wireless capabilities. A mobile computing device may refer to any device having a processing system and a mobile power source or supply such as one or more batteries for example.

As described above examples of a mobile computing device may include a personal computer PC laptop computer ultra laptop computer tablet touch pad portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA television smart device e.g. smart phone smart tablet or smart television mobile internet device MID messaging device data communication device and so forth.

Examples of a mobile computing device also may include computers that are arranged to be worn by a person such as a wrist computer finger computer ring computer eyeglass computer belt clip computer arm band computer shoe computers clothing computers and other wearable computers. In various embodiments for example a mobile computing device may be implemented as a smart phone capable of executing computer applications as well as voice communications and or data communications. Although some embodiments may be described with a mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that other embodiments may be implemented using other wireless mobile computing devices as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in device may include a housing a display an input output I O device and an antenna . Device also may include navigation features . Display may include any suitable display unit for displaying information appropriate for a mobile computing device. I O device may include any suitable I O device for entering information into a mobile computing device. Examples for I O device may include an alphanumeric keyboard a numeric keypad a touch pad input keys buttons switches rocker switches microphones speakers voice recognition device and software and so forth. Information also may be entered into device by way of microphone not shown . Such information may be digitized by a voice recognition device not shown . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative instructions stored on a machine readable medium which represents various logic within the processor which when read by a machine causes the machine to fabricate logic to perform the techniques described herein. Such representations known as IP cores may be stored on a tangible machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.

While certain features set forth herein have been described with reference to various implementations this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Hence various modifications of the implementations described herein as well as other implementations which are apparent to persons skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains are deemed to lie within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

In one example a computer implemented method for selectively backlighting a display of a computer may include reception of visual data where the visual data may include video of one or more users. Eye tracking may be performed for at least one of the one or more users. For example the eye tracking may be performed based at least in part on the received visual data. A region of interest may be determined where the region of interest may be associated with a portion of the display of the computer system. For example the determination of the region of interest may be based at least in part on the performed eye tracking. The portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest may be selectively backlight and a secondary portion of the display that is not associated with the determined region of interest may be dimmed.

In some examples the method may include determining whether an application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. A determination may be made whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present occurs in response to the determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking.

In some examples the method may include determining whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data. For example the performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users.

In some examples the method may include determining whether an application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. A determination may be made whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present may occur in response to the determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. For example the performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users.

In some examples the method may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on a default area size.

In some examples the method may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element where the discrete display element includes a text box a paragraph of text a default number of text lines a picture a menu the like and or combinations thereof.

In some examples the method may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning off a previously lit portion of backlighting associated with the secondary portion of the display.

In some examples the method may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning on a previously dimmed portion of backlighting associated with the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest.

In some examples the method may include determining whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data. The display may be completely dimmed in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination that none of the one or more users is present.

In some examples the method may include completely dimming the display in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination that none of the one or more users eyes are directed at the display in response to the performed eye tracking.

In some examples the method may include determining whether an application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. A determination may be made whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data. For example the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present may occur in response to the determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. The display may be completely dimmed in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination that none of the one or more users is present and or on a determination that none of the one or more users eyes are directed at the display in response to the performed eye tracking. The performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users. The selective backlighting may include selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on a default area size and or selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element where the discrete display element may include a text box a paragraph of text a default number of text lines a picture a menu the like and or combinations thereof. The selective backlighting may include turning off a previously lit portion of backlighting associated with the secondary portion of the display and or turning on a previously dimmed portion of backlighting associated with the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest.

In other examples a system for selectively backlighting a computer may include a display an imaging device one or more processors one or more memory stores a visual data logic module an eye tracking logic module a region of interest logic module a selective backlighting logic module the like and or combinations thereof. The imaging device may be configured to capture visual data. The one or more processors may be communicatively coupled to the display and to the imaging device. The one or more memory stores may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors. The visual data logic module may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and may be configured to receive visual data where the visual data includes video of one or more users. The eye tracking logic module may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and may be configured to perform eye tracking for at least one of the one or more users based at least in part on the received visual data. The region of interest logic module may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and may be configured to determine a region of interest associated with a portion of the display based at least in part on the performed eye tracking. The selective backlighting logic module may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and may be configured to selectively backlight the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest and dim a secondary portion of the display that is not associated with the determined region of interest.

In some examples the system may include a user presence logic module that may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and that may be configured to determine whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present may occur in response to a determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking.

In some examples the system may include a user presence logic module that may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and that may be configured to determine whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users.

In some examples the system may include a user presence logic module that may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and that may be configured to determine whether at least one of the one or more users is present based at least in part on the received visual data where the determination of whether at least one of the one or more users is present may occur in response to a determination that the application has been designated for operation with eye tracking. The performance of eye tracking may occur in response to the determination that at least one of the one or more users is present for at least one of the one or more users.

In some examples the system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on a default area size.

In some examples the system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes selectively backlighting an area based at least in part on associating the region of interest with a discrete display element where the discrete display element includes a text box a paragraph of text a default number of text lines a picture a menu the like and or combinations thereof.

In some examples the system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning off a previously lit portion of backlighting associated with the secondary portion of the display.

In some examples the system may operate so that the selective backlighting includes turning on a previously dimmed portion of backlighting associated with the portion of the display associated with the determined region of interest.

In some examples the system may include a complete dimming logic module that may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and that may be configured to completely dim the display in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination that none of the one or more users is present.

In some examples the system may include a complete dimming logic module that may be communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more memory stores and that may be configured to completely dim the display in response to the received visual data based at least in part on a determination that none of the one or more users eyes are directed at the display in response to the performed eye tracking.

In a further example at least one machine readable medium may include a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device causes the computing device to perform the method according to any one of the above examples.

In a still further example an apparatus may include means for performing the methods according to any one of the above examples.

The above examples may include specific combination of features. However such the above examples are not limited in this regard and in various implementations the above examples may include the undertaking only a subset of such features undertaking a different order of such features undertaking a different combination of such features and or undertaking additional features than those features explicitly listed. For example all features described with respect to the example methods may be implemented with respect to the example apparatus the example systems and or the example articles and vice versa.

