---

title: Method and apparatus for increasing the functionality of an electronic device in a locked state
abstract: An approach is provided for increasing the functionality of an electronic device when the device is in a locked state. The approach involves determining one or more applications for presentation at a device. The approach also involves determining that the device is in a locked state. The approach further involves processing and/or facilitating a processing of the one or more applications to cause, at least in part, presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device associated with the locked state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09110556&OS=09110556&RS=09110556
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09110556
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120423
---
This application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 480 223 filed Apr. 28 2011 entitled Method and Apparatus for Increasing the Functionality of an Electronic Device in a Locked State the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. The spread of augmented reality and other application usage on electronic devices increases the importance of providing a fast way to access such applications. Electronic devices such as those with touch screens have a lock screen feature to avoid any accidental functioning of the electronic device. The lock screen however increases the amount of time required to access and use an application that is run on the electronic device. There is a need therefore to increase the functionality of the electronic device while it is in a locked state.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more applications for presentation at a device. The method also comprises determining that the device is in a locked state. The method further comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more applications to cause at least in part presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device associated with the locked state.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more applications for presentation at a device. The apparatus is also caused to determine that the device is in a locked state. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more applications to cause at least in part presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device associated with the locked state.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more applications for presentation at a device. The apparatus is also caused to determine that the device is in a locked state. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more applications to cause at least in part presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device associated with the locked state.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more applications for presentation at a device. The apparatus also comprises means for determining that the device is in a locked state. The apparatus further comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more applications to cause at least in part presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device associated with the locked state.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Because many mobile devices require a user to unlock the device before accessing any applications a number of steps must be followed before during and after use of the application. Such a number of steps can be a detriment to the user because it is inconvenient and requires excess time. For example steps that a user must take for using an augmented reality application with most mobile devices are as follows get the device from the user s pocket unlock the device find the AR app start the AR app the app shows the last selected AR layer with landmarks find the nearest landmark by pointing and looking through the AR view lock the device put the device back into the user s pocket.

Such a procedure of steps may occur in any situation but a user for example may be on vacation and want information immediately without having to bother with so many steps to get that information. For instance a user that is on vacation arrives in an unfamiliar city and wants to walk around with occasional visits to landmarks nearby. The user may have an AR app installed on his phone and the necessary AR layer with the city s landmarks may be downloaded into the app.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to have functionality of particular applications when a device is locked. It would be advantageous to add a functional AR view to a mobile device while the device is in its lock screen that is available by pressing e. g. a power button on the most devices power button lights up the screen but doesn t unlock it . The user in this case could then quickly bring the necessary AR layer to the lock screen just by pressing the power button check the AR environment and then turn off the display by pressing the power button again.

To prevent battery drain mobile device could be in a low power mode that displays a simplified AR information display and a rendered street view which does not require activating an onboard camera . Another way to prevent battery drain would be the short use of camera light proximity sensors to detect whether the phone is outside of a pocket bag or case.

A proposed solution allows for a reduction in the number of steps necessary to access AR layer. For example steps of AR app usage with lock screen integration such as that discussed above may be as follows get the device from the user s pocket press the power button the device shows on the lock screen the last selected AR layer with landmarks find the nearest landmark by pointing and looking through the AR view press the power button again to turn off the screen put the device back into the user s pocket. In this example the AR application is always running and accessible without having to unlock the phone search for the application access the application and run the application. Such an implementation may require close integration between a device s software and an AR app because lock screen content and behavior is usually completely controlled by the device s resident operating system. Such may be done by enabling an operating system provided application programming interface to access lock screen rendering and functionality.

Alternatively or in addition to using the power button to activate functionality of the AR app when the device is in a locked state an orientation sensor can be used to manipulate the kind of data that is shown when the device is in a locked state. By turning the device for example vertically or horizontally the user can change the locked state view without unlocking the phone touching the display or pressing a button for example. Existing devices merely change the data to shown in a locked state by way of a lock bars. The difference is that the related idea focuses on lock bar usage. This solution uses only screen orientation.

Orientation sensors exist in many phones and the orientation sensors control the orientation and alignment of display on a device. However the lock screen content and behavior are usually completely controlled by the phone OS. Therefore the implementation may require OS provided API to access lock screen rendering and functionality as well as access to screen orientation sensor.

Usage of the orientation sensors may not be limited to solely switching between two views horizontal and vertical . Rather usage of the orientation sensor to may also be used for switching between multiple views by continuously rotating the screen clockwise or counter clockwise e.g. a calendar view while holding device vertically can be switched to an inbox view by rotating the device clockwise into horizontal position and then switched to a to do list by further rotating the device clockwise into a vertical position .

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE having connectivity to an application processing platform content providers collectively referred to as content provider and a service platform via a communication network . In one embodiment the UE has sensors the detect context information about the location of the UE and or orientation information about the UE . The UE may be in a locked state and once a display is activated the UE displays an application such as an augmented reality application that may be one of many applications in the locked state. The UE may switch between applications and or alternative views based on a movement of the UE that is detected by the sensors . The application processing platform may be resident within the UE or external to the UE and or the functionality of the application processing platform may be replaced or shared by an application processing manager that is resident within the UE . For simplicity the application processing manager will be described in the context of the application processing platform herein. The application processing platform may determine whether a switch or a button of the UE has been actuated whether a standard power mode or a low power mode should be activated on the UE for running an application in the locked state and process any context information that the processing platform may receive by way of the sensors for example.

In certain embodiments the UE may be running an application in a locked state and the application may have multiple views or user interfaces available. A user may switch between views or user interfaces by interacting with the UE by changing its orientation. For example a user may view a horizontal view on the application and by turning the UE 90 degrees in a clockwise direction the view may change to a vertical view. The vertical view may be a different view of the same display another user interface that is available for the application or another application all together. In another example the horizontal view could be an inbox for a messaging application and the vertical view could be a calendar. The user may also continue turning the orientation of the UE to change the view again or return the view to its original interface.

In certain embodiments the UE may be running an application in a locked state and as discussed above the application may have multiple views or user interfaces available. The user in this embodiment which may be separate or in addition to the above embodiment may switch between views user interfaces or applications by actuating a switch that is part of the UE . For example the user may hit a power button on the UE to activate a display and may then hit the power button again or a volume button to change the view in the manner discussed above.

In certain embodiments the UE may be running an augmented reality application that displays information based on context information about the UE . The content for the application may be provided by the content provider and or the service platform . Such content may be any information that is desired about a location or point of interest for example. The content that may be provided may be map related information and or imagery historical data address information contact information encyclopedia information vacancy information menu information reservation related information etc. The context information may be received by the sensors and processed by the application processing platform . The information that is displayed may relate to location information and context related to the location information. For example the user may view an augmented reality on the UE s current or hypothetical location and in the display of the augmented reality view information about landmarks restaurants transportation information etc. In this embodiment the user may change the view by turning the device as described above of by simply moving the device toward an object. Such a movement may also result in zooming a display that is shown by the UE .

In certain embodiments the application may be an augmented reality but a low power mode is desired to save battery life of the UE . In the low power mode the user may view a wireframe or a rendered view that is saved on the UE rather than viewing a live display by way of a camera that is part of the UE . By not requiring the camera to produce the view displayed on the UE the camera need not be activated and power may be saved.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the sensors may be any of a camera an orientation sensor a movement sensor a location sensor a proximity sensor a light sensor and the like.

By way of example the UE the application processing platform the content provider and services platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer header a data link layer header an internetwork layer header and a transport layer header and various application layer layer and layer headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the actuation determination module determines whether a user has manipulated the UE in any way that may be detected by the sensors or any buttons such as a power button of the UE . The manipulation may be a movement of the device or the actuation of a switch or button. The manipulation allows for the user to direct a manipulation of the application to switch between one application and another or to switch between views and or user interfaces of the application. The context module receives context information by way of the communication module about the UE that may be detected by the sensors . A user profile may also be resident on the UE or receivable from another network entity that communicates with the application processing platform . The context information that is received may be processed by the context module to determine locations of interest to a user of the UE such as landmarks restaurants bars transportation information hotels etc. The display module determines what information is to be displayed and based on the determination made by the actuation determination module determines which user interface or view of the application or other applications is to be displayed.

The power management module determines whether a low power mode or a standard power mode is to be used by the UE for displaying the application in the locked state. The low power mode may be any of a wireframe display reduced rendering a reduction of the complexity of one or more views of one or more applications and or deactivation of one or more components of the UE or the application. Any processing that is done by the application processing platform may be output by the communication module to the UE for display.

Next in step the application processing platform processes the presentation of the one or more applications to determine whether the presentation should be in a low power mode. If the determination is positive the application processing platform generates a low power user interface. The low power user interface may be any of a reduction of the complexity of one or more views of the one or more applications and or a deactivation of one or more components of the one or more applications for example. The process continues to step in which the application processing platform causes the presentation of the one or more applications in a user interface of the device when the device is in a locked state.

The processes described herein for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to increase the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to increase the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of increasing the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to increase the functionality of an electronic device while the device is in a locked state. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

