---

title: Prescription of electronic resources based on observational assessments
abstract: Various embodiments for prescribing electronic resources based on observational assessments are described. One example system includes a communication unit for sending and receiving data, a recommendation engine, and an assignment engine. The recommendation engine receives observation data related to a target subject, identifies one or more electronic resources that correspond to the observation data, and provides data describing the one or more electronic resources for display to an observer. The recommendation engine is coupled to the communication unit to provide the data representing the one or more electronic resources. The assignment engine receives an assignment request requesting an assignment of at least one electronic resource from the one or more electronic resources to the target subject for completion. The assignment engine also assigns the at least one electronic resource to the target subject. The assignment engine is coupled to the communication unit to receive the assignment request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262746&OS=09262746&RS=09262746
owner: SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT NETWORK, LLC
number: 09262746
owner_city: Midvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120809
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 523 156 entitled Observation 360 filed on Aug. 12 2011 Provisional Application No. 61 523 187 entitled Student Assessment Data filed on Aug. 12 2011 and Provisional Application No. 61 654 813 entitled Teacher Effectiveness Systems and Methods filed on Jun. 2 2012 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to professional development and more particularly to the prescription of electronic resources based on observational assessments.

Some educational and professional systems have been migrating toward performance pay which provides that a portion of a professional s compensation may be tied to performance. For example under some educational systems a teacher s compensation and advancement may be tied to student achievement in the classroom which may directly or indirectly correspond to how that teacher is developing professionally. However these systems can be limited in how to direct and manage professional development. For instance they often lack the ability to conveniently identify and assign professional development activities that are relevant to the specific needs of their professionals. They also often lack the ability to reliably monitor whether their professionals are actively participating in the professional development activities that may have been assigned to them.

According to one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a system includes a communication unit for sending and receiving data a recommendation engine and an assignment engine. The recommendation engine receives observation data related to a target subject identifies one or more electronic resources that correspond to the observation data and provides data describing the one or more electronic resources for display to an observer. The recommendation engine is coupled to the communication unit to provide the data representing the one or more electronic resources. The assignment engine receives an assignment request requesting an assignment of at least one electronic resource from the one or more electronic resources to the target subject for completion. The assignment engine also assigns the at least one electronic resource to the target subject. The assignment engine is coupled to the communication unit to receive the assignment request.

In general another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in a method that includes receiving observation data related to a target subject identifying by one or more computing devices one or more electronic resources that correspond to observation data related to the target subject providing data describing the one or more electronic resources for display to an observer of the target subject receiving an assignment request requesting an assignment of at least one electronic resource from the one or more electronic resources to the target subject for completion and assigning by the one or more computing devices the at least one electronic resource to the target subject.

Other innovative aspects include corresponding systems methods apparatus and computer program products.

It should be noted that the language used in the present disclosure has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein.

In the depicted embodiment the system includes a professional development server a media distribution server client devices . . . also referred to herein individually and collectively as that are accessed by users . . . also referred to herein individually and collectively as and a third party server . In the illustrated embodiment these entities are communicatively coupled via a network . While only one network is coupled to the professional development server the media distribution server the client devices . . . and the third party server in practice any number of networks can be connected to these entities.

The professional development server is a computing device or system for providing a professional development service. In the depicted embodiment the professional development server is coupled to the network via signal line and is coupled to a data store and a media data store via signal lines and respectively. The professional development server may include one or more processors and one or more storage devices storing data or instructions for execution by the one or more processors. For example the professional development server may be a server a server array or any other computing device or group of computing devices having data processing storing and communication capabilities. The professional development server may be a virtual server i.e. a virtual machine implemented via software. For example the virtual server operates in a host server environment and accesses the physical hardware of the host server including for example a processor memory storage network interfaces etc. via an abstraction layer e.g. a virtual machine manager . It should be understood that the professional development server could be made up of any combination of devices and servers or only one of device or server. The professional development server may interact with the other entities . . . and of the system via the network or may be coupled to and interact with these entities via a direct data connection.

In some embodiments the entities of the system including the professional development server and the media distribution server may be implemented using cloud based architectures where one or more computer functions are performed by remote computing systems and devices at the request of a local computer device. For example a client device may be a computing device having a limited set of hardware and or software resources and may access hardware and or software resources provided across the network by other computer devices and resources such as other client devices the third party server the professional development server or any other computing resources. The client device may access these resources through a client application such as a web browser or customized application and the results of any computer functions or resources may be delivered through the client application to the user of the client device such as those described below with reference to . The professional development server may be a cloud based distributed computing system having dynamically scalable and virtualizable resources and various functionality of the professional development server the functionality of the professional development application engine the observation engine and or the media distribution server may be carried out and supplemented by computing systems and devices distributed over the network . Although only one professional development server is shown multiple servers may be included in the system .

In the professional development server includes a professional development application engine and an observation engine . The professional development application engine is software including routines for providing network based professional development training to professionals. Professional development training includes teaching skills to participants assisting participants in integrating and applying those skills to their profession assessing the success of participants in applying the skills and evaluating whether additional training is necessary. By way of example professional development training may be used to improve the skills of teachers and school administrators health care professionals such as nurses or physicians legal professionals such as lawyers judges or trustees corporate professionals such as officers directors managers or other internal corporate employees travel industry professionals such as pilots drivers skippers or the like educational professionals such as teachers or professors financial professionals such as accountants brokers traders tax specialists or the like human relations professionals sales professionals service industry professionals government employees law enforcement personnel military personnel sports professionals and or personnel homeland security personnel or any other workforce that requires professional training and assessment as to the assimilation and effectiveness of such training.

In some embodiments the professional development application engine may collect and store mapping information i.e. social graphs in the data store mapping how all users of the professional development service are associated. For example the social graph of each user may describe that user s relationships with other users based at least in part on shared attributes etc. In another example relating to education all users may be associated in their respective social graphs by school school district subject matter taught amount of experience etc. Users may also define their own connections and sets of users using functionality provided by the client application in cooperation with the professional development application engine . For example users who met at a math conference may add one another to their social graph by using functionality provided by the client application in cooperation with the professional development application engine . The professional development application may also generate and maintain a user profile in the data store for each user of the professional development service. A user profile is a collection of personal and professional data that is unique to a specific user. In some embodiments the user profile is a digital representation of that person on the professional development service and includes a user s customized settings and preferences biographical information employment information professional interests employer information professional development information social graph information etc.

In some embodiments the professional development training may be provided by the professional development application engine via the network to teachers and administrators in an academic environment or other educational setting such as a school district. The training or instruction may be provided by the professional development application engine in the form of electronic resources.

An electronic resource may be any electronic media for conveying information. For example an electronic resource can be instructional in nature and can convey knowledge information and resources to a user who interacts with or views it. As a further example an electronic resources may include an instructional audio or video segment a publication an interactive instructional reference a lesson plan a planning tool a community forum a sharing tool an industry standard a portfolio tool a progress monitoring tool a reporting tool etc. In some embodiments an electronic resource can include any of textural data graphical data video data audio data etc. For example the electronic resource may be a webpage including one or more of text graphics video audio etc. In another example the electronic resource may be or include a downloadable or streamable media object including for example an electronic document e.g. portable document format PDF document electronic book e book digital video digital audio file vector graphics file etc. In these or other examples the electronic resource may include a dataset electronic file with text graphics video audio etc. embedded therein.

In some embodiments these electronic resources may convey information on various topics such as leadership training teaching skills and similar subjects of consequence and importance to the professional development of the users. For instance an electronic resource may be an instructional video about an aspect of teaching and a teacher may view the video by streaming it using his her client device . In another example the electronic resource may be a web based interactive reference including text audio video etc. and the teacher may study the reference by interacting with it via a client application such as a web browser.

The observation engine facilitates professional development based on observational assessments. In addition to its plain and ordinary meaning an observational assessment is an assessment of evaluation of estimation of determination of judgment of review of rating of comment on suggestion about etc. of one or more qualities of a target subject. The qualities assessed by an observational assessment may include for example the target subject s effectiveness achievement execution compliance value add improvement deficiencies weaknesses etc. Hereinafter these qualities are referred to collectively and individually as performance. An observational assessment is based on observations input by an observer of the target subject during an observation session which may be an impromptu session or a planned session. In addition to its plain and ordinary meaning an observation may be a qualitative or quantitative assessment of evaluation of estimation of determination of judgment of review of rating of comment on suggestion about etc. one or more of the above noted qualities of the target subject.

In some embodiments an observational assessment may be informal assessment of the target subject. In other embodiments the observational assessment may be a formal assessment of the target subject submitted to a human resources department or the like. The observer performing the observational assessment may be a supervisor administrator human resources personnel coach mentor colleague peer etc. of the target subject or may be unknown and or unrelated to the target subject e.g. an anonymous observer . For example the observer may be an evaluator or reviewer for a business or organization such as a school or school district.

In some embodiments an observer interacting with the observation engine via a client application may provide observation data to the observation engine reflecting his her observations of a target subject and in response may receive recommendations of electronic resources that can be assigned to the target subject being observed by the observer. The observer interacting with the observation engine may also assign one or more recommended electronic resources to the target subject for completion and the target subject upon accessing the professional development application engine via an associated interface may be presented with the electronic resource and or options for interacting with the electronic resource. The observation engine is discussed in further detail below with reference to at least .

The data stores are are information sources for storing and providing access to organized collections of data. In some embodiments the data stores and are included in the memories not shown of the professional development server and the third party server respectively. In other embodiments the data stores and are included in a server or storage system distinct from but accessible by the professional development server and the third party server respectively. In various embodiments the data stores and store records files objects etc. in cooperation with a file system executable by a processor. The data stores and may additionally or alternatively include a database management system DBMS executable by a processor to manage a collection of records files objects etc. For example the database could be a structured query language SQL DBMS. In these embodiments the professional development server and or the third party server are respectively coupled to these databases via a bus or a network to store data in multi dimensional tables having rows and columns and manipulate i.e. insert query update and or delete rows of data using programmatic operations e.g. SQL queries and statements .

Additional structure and functionality of the professional development application engine the observation engine and the data store are discussed in further detail below.

The media distribution server is a computing device and or system for transmitting electronic resources stored in the media data store to the other entities of the system . In some embodiments the media distribution server cooperates with the professional development application engine to provide an electronic resource to a user for consumption. For example the professional development engine may transmit a file e.g. a webpage to a client device for display to the user. The file may include code e.g. a video player executable to receive a video and or audio stream e.g. an electronic resource from the media distribution server and render it for display to the user. In other embodiments the professional development server performs the function of the media distribution server . In the depicted embodiment the media distribution server is coupled to the network via signal line for communication with the other entities of the system . The media distribution server is also coupled to the media data store to access electronic resources and other data stored in the media data store . In some embodiments the media distribution server is a hardware server including a processor memory and network communication capabilities. In other embodiments the media distribution server is a virtual server.

In some embodiments the media distribution server transmits video and audio streams to one or more client devices . The video and audio streams may be live feeds or may be previously recorded stored as media objects in the media data store and transmitted to the one or more client devices on demand via delayed broadcast etc. In some embodiments the audio and video are streamed from the media distribution server via the network . In other embodiments a user can download an instance of the video and audio media objects from the media distribution server to a local repository for storage and local playback.

The media distribution server and or the professional development server is are capable of transmitting any number of electronic resources to any number of client devices simultaneously. While in the depicted embodiment only one media distribution server is depicted any number of media distribution servers and or media data stores may be included in the system. For example the media distribution server and the media data store may be a distributed server and storage system with local instances strategically located in locations where spikes in demand for the electronic resources are likely to occur. For example if a cluster of client devices are located in a particular geographic region local instances of the media distribution server and the media data store may be coupled to the network in that geographic region such that the media objects stored in the media data store may be served locally and at a faster data rate to that cluster of client devices .

It should be understood that in some embodiments the media distribution server and or the third party server have the same or similar architecture e.g. memory processor communication unit bus etc. as the professional development server depicted in and thus the description of those components applies to the media distribution server and or the third party server .

The media data store is an information source for storing data and providing access to stored data. The stored data may include the electronic resources described above such as media objects including video audio vector based files electronic books documents etc. In some embodiments the media data store is included in the memory not shown of the media distribution server . In other embodiments the media data store is included in the memory see of the professional development server . In yet other embodiments the media data store is included in a server or storage system distinct from but accessible by the media distribution server and the professional development server . In some embodiments the media data store includes a database management system DBMS executable by a processor to manage a collection of records files and objects including the media objects. For example the database could be a structured query language SQL DBMS. In these embodiments the professional development server and or the media distribution server are coupled to the database via the bus to store data in multi dimensional tables having rows and columns and manipulate i.e. insert query update and or delete rows of data using programmatic operations e.g. SQL queries and statements .

The third party server is a server hosting a network based software application operable to provide various services or functionalities and to send data to and receive data from the professional development server the media distribution server and the client devices . . . via the network . In the depicted embodiment the third party server is coupled to the network via signal line for communication with the other entities of the system . The third party server is also coupled to the data store via signal line for accessing and storing data. In some embodiments the third party server is a server server array or any other computing device or group of computing devices having data processing storing and communication capabilities. In other embodiments third party server is a virtual server.

The third party server can provide access to data stored in the data store that is associated with users of the professional development application engine . In some embodiments the data stored in the data store may include demographics data achievement data student data teacher data standards data inter rater reliability data etc. and the third party server may include a software application for providing secure access to this data to the professional development application engine over the network via an API. For example in an educational setting the demographics data may include instructor and pupil demographics data and may be segmented across school district school classroom grade etc. the achievement data may include standardized test scores for educators and pupils the student data may include student assessments of teachers e.g. aggregated from surveys reviews etc. biographical data describing the students social graph data e.g. aggregated from third party social networking services etc. the teacher data may include biographical data describing the teachers social graph data e.g. aggregated from third party social networking services teacher preferences teacher assessments of students e.g. aggregated from surveys reviews etc. etc. and the standards data may include standards compiled and approved by a governing organization or institution which define the levels of attainment pupils much reach to be considered acceptably educated. In some embodiments a local instance of the data stored in the data store may be included in the data store . For example a batch program operating periodically every few minutes hours days weeks etc. may retrieve a refreshed version of the data stored in the data store and store it in the data store .

The client devices . . . are computing devices having data processing and data communication capabilities. In the depicted embodiment the client device is coupled to the network via signal line and the user interacts with the client device as depicted by line and the client device is coupled to the network via signal line and the user interacts with the client device as depicted by line . While illustrates two or more client devices the present disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more client devices.

The client devices may include one or more wired or wireless network interfaces for sending and receiving network data a graphics processor a low or high resolution touchscreen a soft and or physical keyboard forward and rear facing cameras sensors such as accelerometers and or gyroscopes a GPS receiver a Bluetooth module memory storing applicable firmware and various physical connection interfaces e.g. USB HDMI headset jack etc. etc. Additionally an operating system for managing the hardware and resources of the client device application programming interfaces APIs for providing applications access to the hardware and resources a user interface module for generating and displaying interfaces for user interaction and input and applications such as applications for making phone calls video calls video chatting web browsing messaging social networking gaming capturing digital video and or images etc. may be stored and operable on the client device .

The client devices . . . may be computing devices of the same type or of different types. For example the client device may be a tablet computer and the client device may be a laptop. In other examples a client device can be a computing device such as a workstation computer a desktop computer a netbook computer a smartphone a set top box unit an Internet Protocol connected smart TV or projector including a computer processor capable of receiving viewer input accessing video content on computer networks such as the Internet and executing software routines to provide enhanced functionality and interactivity to viewers or the like. In some embodiments the client device is a handheld wireless computing device which is capable of sending and receiving voice and or data communications. For example the client device may include a processor a memory a power source and one or more network interfaces coupled via a data bus where the one or more network interfaces broadcast and receive control data voice data and or network data via radio signals.

In the depicted embodiment the client device contains a client application for generating and displaying user interfaces receiving user input and sending data to and receiving data from the other entities etc. of the system . In particular the client application may include routines for accessing the functionality and content of the professional development server and or the media distribution server . In some embodiments different client devices may include different client applications . For example the client device may include a client application customized for interaction with the professional development server and or the media distribution server and the client device may include a client application operable as a web browser for accessing webpages and other web based resources served by other entities of the system such as the professional development server . In other embodiments the client devices may include the same client applications .

Additional structure and functionality of the client devices and the client application are provided below with reference to at least .

The network includes one or more wired or wireless networks and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other known configurations. The network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. The network may be coupled to or include mobile cellular networks including distributed radio networks and a hub providing a wireless wide area network WWAN or other telecommunications networks. In some embodiments the network may include Bluetooth communication networks for sending and receiving data. The network may transmit data using a variety of different communication protocols including user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS file transfer protocol FTP direct data connection wireless access protocol WAP various email protocols etc. Client devices may couple to and communicate via the network using a wireless and or wired connection. In some embodiments the communication unit not shown of the client devices include a wireless network interface controller for sending and receiving data packets to an access point of the network . For example the client devices may be Wi Fi enabled devices that connect to wireless local area networks WLANs such as wireless hotspots. The client devices may also include one or more wireless mobile network interface controllers for sending and receiving data packets via a WWAN of the network .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device not shown . The processor may be coupled to the bus for communication with the other components of the professional development server . The processor may process data signals and may have various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processor may be capable of supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images perform complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling etc. It should be understood that the professional development server could include various operating systems sensors displays additional processors and other physical configurations.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the processor and the other components of professional development server . The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. In particular the memory includes a non transitory computer usable e.g. readable writeable etc. medium which can be any apparatus or device that can contain store communicate propagate or transport instructions data computer programs software code routines etc. for processing by or in connection with the processor . A non transitory computer usable storage medium may include any and or all non transitory computer usable storage media. In some implementations the memory may include volatile memory non volatile memory or both. For example the memory may include a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a Blue Ray storage device a flash memory device or any other mass storage device known for storing information on a more permanent basis. It should be understood that the memory may be a single device or may include multiple types of devices and configurations.

The communication unit is an interface for sending to and receiving data from other computing devices. In the depicted embodiment the communication unit is coupled to the network by the signal line and coupled to the bus . In some embodiments the communication unit includes a network interface device I F having ports for wired connectivity. For example the communication unit includes a CAT 5 6 7 interface USB interface or SD interface etc. The communication unit may also include a transceiver for sending and receiving signals using Wi Fi Bluetooth or cellular communications for wireless communication. The communication unit can link the processor to the network that may in turn be coupled to other processing systems. The communication unit can provide connections to the network and to other entities of the system using standard communication protocols including for example TCP IP HTTP HTTPS etc.

The professional development application engine includes a content engine which is coupled for communication with the other components and of the professional development server . The content engine is also coupled to the network via the communication unit for communication with the other entities . . . and of the system .

In some embodiments the professional development application engine and or the content engine are sets of instructions executable by the processor to provide their respective functionality. In other embodiments the professional development application engine and or the content engine are stored in the memory of the professional development server and are accessible and executable by the processor to provide their respective functionality. In any of these embodiments the professional development application engine and the content engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components and of the professional development server .

The content engine is software including routines for managing and providing content for the professional development service. In some embodiments the content engine catalogs the electronic resources provides for the addition or removal of electronic resources transmits the electronic resources to the users of the professional development service for consumption tracks user consumption and interaction with the of electronic resources etc.

The content engine is coupled to the data store and the media data store either directly or via the media distribution server to access the electronic resources stored therein. In some embodiments the content engine can search the data store and the media data store to generate and collect information about the electronic resources. For instance the content engine can aggregate attributes of the electronic resources such as the author publisher file size creation date publication date a thumbnail of the resource etc. and store them in a resource library database. In various embodiments the content engine can access the electronic resources in the data store and the media data store to transmit or stream copies of those resources to the client devices of the users requesting to interact with them.

The content engine can also receive and store new electronic resources in the media data store or the data store . In some embodiments the content engine may interact with the media distribution server to store information in the media data store . In other embodiments the content engine may store information in the media data store directly. In some embodiments the content engine receives content addition requests via the network requesting the addition of electronic resources to the professional development service. For example the content engine is capable of serving a webpage to a client device that provides functionality for the user of the client device to author or upload an electronic resource along with metadata characterizing it. The electronic resource may be an interactive electronic book a video file an audio file a document a dataset an electronic link or any other electronic resource that can be accessed and viewed via the professional development service. The content engine may receive the additional electronic resource store the metadata about the resource in the resource library database and store the electronic resource in the data store and or media data store . Thus the content engine can update the resource library database either periodically or real time with any new electronic resources that have been added to or removed from the professional development service.

The content engine is capable of receiving requests for electronic resources from users and fulfilling those requests by transmitting the electronic resources to the corresponding client devices of the users . For example the content engine may receive a request from a client device of a user via the network to view a training video that was assigned to the user by an observer while observing that user in action. In another example upon logging in to the professional development service a user may be presented with an interface by the user application that shows any outstanding assignments that the user must complete the dates by the assignments must be completed a description of what the assignments are etc. Using this interface the user may select an assignment in response to which the user application transmits a request to the content engine for the electronic resource associated with the assignment. In yet another example an observer upon logging in may be provided with electronic resources e.g. video audio etc. by the content engine in cooperation with the client application which describes what to focus on observe evaluate during an upcoming pending observational assessment of a target subject. In these or other examples electronic resources can be identified and served to the users based on the users social graphs and or preferences. The content engine upon receiving this request may locate the electronic resource in the data store and provide it to the user application via the network for presentation to the user . As discussed elsewhere herein the content engine may in some embodiments cooperate with the media distribution server to provide the electronic resources for consumption and or interaction by the users requesting them.

When users consume or interact with the electronic resources provided by the content engine the content engine is capable of logging the consumption and interaction in the data store in association with those users. In some embodiments the content engine cooperates with the user application to monitoring user interactions with the electronic resources. For example when user interacts with a user interface generated and displayed by the user application the user application sends interaction data via the network to the content engine informing the content engine of the interaction and the content engine stores this interaction data. In a further example if a user interacts with a media player embedded in a user interface of the user application interaction data describing the user s interactions such which actions the user took e.g. clicked a pause button a play button a scrubbing dial volume dial maximized the viewing field of the media player added a comment about the video using an associated interface element etc. are sent by the user application to the content engine and the content engine logs those interactions. The interaction data may also include or be associated with data identifying which electronic resource was interacted with the user who interacted with the resource the time and date of the interaction etc. In another example if a user is accessing an interactive electronic book the user application can send interaction data describing when the user begins interacting with the electronic book pages through the electronic book downloads files included with or embedded in the electronic book completes surveys included with the electronic book views videos embedded in the electronic book comments on passages of the electronic book or otherwise uses any other functionality provided by the user application for interaction with the electronic book or the corresponding components of the professional development application engine .

In some embodiments the content engine may provide the electronic resource to the client devices with presentational information and the client application may use the presentational information to form the look and feel of the user interfaces. For example the electronic file s or data stream s may be formatted using a markup language e.g. HTML XML etc. style sheets e.g. CSS XSL etc. graphics and or scripts e.g. JavaScript ActionScript etc. and the client application may interpret the interface instructions and render an interactive Web User Interface WUI for display on a user device based thereon. In other implementations the client application may determine the formatting and look and feel of the user interfaces independently. Using the user interfaces presented by the client application the user can input commands selecting various actions.

The observation engine is software including routines for facilitating professional development based on observational assessments. In particular the observation engine can send receive and store observation related data such as observation data templates and files including questions and answers tied to performance standards e.g. standards related to execution compliance effectiveness personalized learning plans etc. identify and suggest electronic training resources based on observation related data received generate reports including analytics about the professionals and their progress generate performance e.g. execution evaluation compliance effectiveness etc. assessments of the observers of the professionals based on demographics data observation related data achievement data standards data student data teacher data interaction data inter rater reliability data observer comparison data or any other data described herein.

In the depicted embodiment the observation engine includes an observation module a recommendation engine an assignment engine and a reporting module . The components and of the observation engine are coupled for communication with each other and the other components and of the professional development server . The components and are also coupled to the network via the communication unit for communication with the other entities of the system .

In some embodiments the observation engine the observation module the recommendation engine the assignment engine and or the reporting module are sets of instructions executable by the processor to provide their respective functionality. In other embodiments the observation engine the observation module the recommendation engine the assignment engine and or the reporting module are stored in the memory of the professional development server and are accessible and executable by the processor to provide their respective functionality. In any of these embodiments the observation engine the observation module the recommendation engine the assignment engine and or the reporting module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components and of the professional development server .

The observation module is software including routines for sending receiving processing and storing observation related data. In some embodiments the observation module may provide observation templates to observers for use in observing and assessing other users also referred to as the target subjects receive observation files including observation data reflecting the assessments and store the observation files in the data store in association with the target subjects being observed. In some embodiments the observation module interacts and cooperates with the client application to provide the above noted functionality.

In the depicted embodiment the observation module is coupled to one or more client devices to provide one or more observation templates to the client devices and to receive observation related data from the client devices . In some embodiments an observation template is an electronic form for assessing the performance of a target subject. The observation template may include header fields for describing the circumstances of an observation session. For example the observation template may include fields for describing the identity a target subject the date the observation was performed by an observer and how the results of the observation should be distributed and stored etc. Additionally or alternatively the observation template may include assessment fields for describing the performance e.g. execution compliance effectiveness and or other qualities of the target subject during the observation data about prior observational assessments of the target subject data about other observers etc. In some embodiments the assessment fields may include data describing predefined questions and user selectable or user definable answers fields for user definable questions and or answers comment fields for providing a description of the target subject rubrics etc. In these or other embodiments the assessment fields may state a goal objective effectiveness expectation or other metric and include one or more indicators assessing how the target subject is meeting that goal objective effectiveness expectation or other metric. For example the objective might be administrators develop the vision mission values beliefs and goals of the organization collaboratively determining the processes used to establish these attributes and facilitating their integration into the life of the organization community and the selectable indicators assessing whether the administrator is partially proficient at meeting this goal may state that the vision mission and values are developed through collaborative process publically available part of routine and routinely updated by the target subject i.e. the administrator . In this example if only some of these indicators are met then the target subject is deemed partially proficient at the goal. If all are met additional indicators evaluating whether a target subject is proficient accomplished or exemplary at meeting this goal are considered and selected if appropriate. The observation templates may also include assignment fields for recommending assigning and or integrating electronic resources e.g. video and fields for defining assignment parameters for the electronic resources e.g. task timers wait times etc. as described in further detail below. In some embodiments suggestions for the assignment fields may be populated real time by the assignment engine in response to the sending of observation data.

The content of the observation templates may be displayed to users via user interfaces generated and displayed by the client application . The user interfaces displaying the content of an observation template to a user may also provide functionality for completing the various fields of the template. For example while observing a target subject in the field an observer user may interact with interface elements presented by the client application to input information about the circumstances of the observation and the target subject s performance. For example the observer user may input the location where the observation session took place the date and time of the observation session the identity of the target subject s audience information about the identity of the observer information about the observer s position and or relationship to the target subject options for storing and distributing the results of the observation etc. The observer user may also provide input describing the performance of the target subject such as inputting answers to questions about various aspects of the target subjects performance etc.

In some embodiments an observation template may include predefined questions and answers for assessing the compliance of a target subjects with various predetermined requirements. For example the requirements may be based on institutional policy compliance with requirements legislated practices or an industry standard and the questions may be directed to whether or not a target subject is meeting those requirements standards. In these embodiments the same template may be used repeatedly by an observer to record his her observations of a target subject over time or of a number of different target subjects. In other embodiments various different templates may be used for the observational assessments of a target subject. The structure and content of the observation templates or portions thereof may be user defined or may be automatically generated by the observation module using standards data stored in the data store or received from another entity of the system such as the third party server .

The client application may transmit observation related data including input provided by the observer during the assessment of the target subject to the observation module for storage. For example the observer may instruct the client application to save a completed observation template as an observation file in a local repository and then transmit it to the observation module via the network for storage in the data store . The observation file includes the information from the template upon which it is based along with the observations e.g. evaluations ratings compliance assessments and comments assignments and or other information input by observer during the observation.

In the depicted embodiment the observation module is coupled via the bus to the data store to store and retrieve observation related data. For example the observation module can store and retrieve the observation templates and the observation files received from the client application . The observation module can also store retrieve and provide organization information associated with observers and target subjects. For example in an educational setting the observation module may access information associated with the organization of the school districts of a state or region a school district the schools of a school district the teachers and administrators of a school district a school a subject etc. the classes in a district or school the students of a school district a school a class a subject a teacher an administrator etc. from the data store .

The recommendation engine is software including routines for receiving observation data related to a target subject identifying one or more electronic resources that correspond to the observation data and for providing data representing the one or more electronic resources for display. In some embodiments the recommendation engine is coupled via the network to receive observation data from one or more client devices . The observation data may characterize one or more aspects of a target subject s performance during an observation session performed by an observer. In the depicted embodiment the recommendation engine is coupled to the data store via the bus to store and retrieve data and is coupled to the media data store either directly via signal line or indirectly via signal line and the network to store and retrieve data.

In some embodiments the observation data may accompany a resource request for a list of electronic resources that correspond to the observation data. The recommendation engine may receive the request from a client device and may satisfy the request by identifying one or more electronic resources that correspond to the request and provide a resource response including a summary of the one or more resources to the client device for display to the user of the client device . For example an observer of a target subject may provide input reflecting observation data assessing the performance of the target subject and the client application upon receiving that input may transmit a request for recommended electronic instructional resources that can be assigned by the observer to the target subject to help the target subject improve his or her skills in a given area.

In some embodiments to identify one or more electronic resources that correspond to the observation data accompanying the resource request the recommendation engine can compare the observation data to metadata associated with electronic resources to identify resources that match the observation data. For example the recommendation engine can search a resource library database that includes an index or catalog of the electronic resources that are available. For instance the resource library database can include metadata for each of the electronic resources describing each resource. The metadata can include tags describing various characteristics of an electronic resource a graphical image of the resource e.g. a thumbnail a description of the topic or subject matter that the resources is directed to an author or authors of the resource the publisher of the resource the popularity of the resource including for example the number of users who have consumed the resource and the level of their interactivity with the resource etc. The recommendation engine can query the resource library database using the observation data or aspects thereof to identify resources that have corresponding metadata that match the observation data either loosely or strictly.

The electronic resources may be distributed among several data stores located across the network or may be stored in a single data store. In the depicted embodiment the media data store and the data store work cooperatively to store the electronic resources. For example media objects such as video audio e books vector based files documents datasets learning objects etc. may be stored in the media data store and lesson plans learning progressions curriculum maps publications portfolios industry standards etc. may be stored in the data store . In other embodiments all of the electronic resources may be stored in and accessible from a single information source such as the media data store the data store etc. In any of the foregoing embodiments the resources stored in the data store may be cataloged for example by the content engine in a single resource library database or in resource library databases distributed over the network and the recommendation engine can query the resource library database or resource library databases for information matching various criteria or for information about the resources. In other embodiments the electronic resources may be prescribed or predetermined in advance and pushed out by the professional development server to the observer of a target subject for assignment or to the target subject directly for consumption.

In some embodiments the observation data includes data quantifying an observer s assessment of a target subject s performance. For example the observation data may include an answer input by an observer in response to a question about the target subject s performance in a particular area and the answer may quantify how well a target subject is performing. In some embodiments the answers to questions may be based on predefined performance scales that are defined to the recommendation engine and the recommendation engine may use the answer to determine where the target subject lies within that performance scale. For example a target subject s performance in a particular area may be assessed from worst to best using the following identifiers unsatisfactory needs improvement developing proficient and distinguished and if the observation data includes data identifying unsatisfactory as the answer to a particular question about a target subject s performance in that area the recommendation engine may use this assessment to identify one or more electronic resources that provide foundational training in that area.

If multiple electronic resources are identified by the recommendation engine as corresponding to the observation data the recommendation engine can rank them based on one or more criteria. A criterion may be any attribute associated with the electronic resources. For example the criterion may include a topic the number of times an electronic resource has been interacted with viewed listened to etc. an author a publisher a date of the electronic resource the number of users connected to the target subject in the social graph who have interacted with the electronic resource the number of times an electronic resource has been assigned to users having a similar assessment etc. The recommendation engine can generate the summary of electronic resources based on the ranking performed by it. For example the top ranked electronic resource may be listed first in the summary and the lowest ranked resource may be listed last. In another example the recommendation engine may limit the summary to a certain number of top ranked resources. In yet another example the list of electronic resources may be sorted in order of rank and provided incrementally as needed by the user application . In a further example the recommendation engine may rank the resources by those that have been most impactful effective for subjects similar to the target subject. For example the recommendation engine may use demographics observation achievement interaction standards student and or teacher data etc. to identify the resources that were the most effective at helping a set of similar target subjects develop professionally. For example a target subject may be a fourth grade teacher who is struggling with maintaining order in the classroom. The recommendation engine using demographic data and or profile data may identify other fourth grade teachers who based on their respective observation data and or achievement data also initially struggled with maintaining order in their classrooms and who later became proficient at maintaining order in their classrooms as reflected by their respective observation data and or achievement data by watching a training video s on classroom management and the recommendation engine and may recommend this these videos for assignment consumption.

The assignment engine is software including routines for receiving an assignment request requesting an assignment of one or more electronic resources to the target subject for completion and for assigning the one or more electronic resources to the target subject based at least in part on the assignment request. In some embodiments the assignment engine is coupled via the network to receive the assignment request from one or more client devices .

The assignment engine may interact with the client application to assign various electronic resources to a target subject. For example during an observation of the target subject the observer inputs observational data indicating that the target subject is in need of training on a particular skillset and the recommendation engine provides a summary of electronic instructional training resources that are accessible via the professional development service hosted by the professional development application server . The observer using an interface rendered and displayed by the user application may assign one or more of the electronic resources to the target subject. In response to the assignment the assignment unit of the user application generates and sends and assignment request to the assignment engine which identifies the electronic resource or resources that have been assigned as further discussed below with reference to at least . The assignment engine then records the assignment of the electronic resources in the data store in association with a user profile for the target subject. In some embodiments an assignment is not activated by the assignment engine until the corresponding observation file including the assignment is finalized and uploaded by the observation unit of the client application . In other embodiments one or more assignment requests are provided and recorded by virtue of the observation file being uploaded for storage by the client application to the professional development server . For example upon receipt of the observation file the assignment engine extracts any assignments from the observation file and records them as described above. In some embodiments to complete the assignment the target subject who is a user of the professional development service may be required to access the service and interact with the electronic resource for example as discussed above with respect to the content engine . In other embodiments to complete the assignment the target subject may be required to consume the electronic resource and then report on his her implementation of the training provided by the resource and or provide his her reflections on the training provided by the resource etc. via the client application . For example the target subject may be required to submit via the client application input describing his her experience with trying out implementing the principles taught by the assigned resource e.g. an online training video . Once this input has been received the assignment engine may flag the assignment as being completed in the data store . Other configurations for completing an assignment are also contemplated.

In some embodiments the assignment request includes one or more assignment parameters. Each assignment parameter sets a condition that must be met in order to complete the assignment. For example an assignment parameter includes a due date a level of interaction with the electronic resource that is required to complete the assignment an additional requirement that must be satisfied for completion of the assignment etc. For instance the observer may assign a video to the target subject to view and may require the target subject to write his her thoughts or reflections about the video by inputting and transmitting them via an interface associated with the professional development service. In the depicted embodiment the assignment engine is coupled to the data store via the bus to store the one or more assignment parameters in association with assignment to which they pertain. In these or other embodiments one or more assignment parameters can be predefined and stored in the data store . A predefined assignment parameter can be applicable to all users who are assigned electronic resources or may be customized for a particular group of users such as those belonging to a particular organization or being observed by a particular observer. For example for all videos that are assigned a predefined assignment parameter can be set e.g. by an observer via an associated interface of the professional development service requiring that the videos must be viewed to completion in order for the assignments of those videos to be considered satisfied. In another example predefined assignment parameters can require videos to be viewed to completion in full screen mode with the sound of the video being set at an audible level in order for the assignments for the videos to be considered satisfied.

In some embodiments the assignment engine generates and sends an electronic notification to the users associated with the assignment request. For example the assignment engine may send an email to the target subject and or the observer s summarizing the assignment. The email may include a description of the electronic resource and an electronic link e.g. a hyperlink including the uniform resource locator URL of the electronic resource for directing the reader directly to the electronic resource. The email may also describe any assignment parameters such as when the assignment must be completed by. In another example the assignment engine may send a similar message to the user via an internal messaging system an instant messaging system a text messaging system or any other electronic messaging system. In these embodiments the assignment engine is coupled to the data store to access information about the electronic resource and to store a copy of the electronic notification that was sent.

The reporting module is software including routines for generating and sending reports. The reporting module may use the data stored and or aggregated by the professional development server such as achievement data demographics data student data teacher data observation related data interaction data standards data or any other data described herein to generate the reports. For example the reporting module using the data aggregated and stored by the observation engine and or professional development application engine may generate segment organize a report by region district school class teacher student s class size gender ethnicity public policy legislation standards requirements etc. In a further example the reporting module may process this data to make macro and or micro qualitative assessments for inclusion in one or more reports. For instance the reporting module based on the observation related data demographics data achievement data student data teacher data interaction data and or standards data etc. may generate an aggregate effectiveness score for a region body or group and or individual effectiveness scores for each of the teachers of that region body or group. The reports may be generated by the reporting module to include any type of data including textual graphical video audio and vector based data to provide rich qualitative and quantitative analysis of the target subject s observer s and associated organization s or businesses s including their performance e.g. execution effectiveness compliance problem areas etc. .

In some embodiments the reporting module may analyze two or more data types such as observation related data achievement data and or student data related to the target subject to generate an effectiveness rating for that target subject. Analyzing two more data types to generate an effectiveness rating is advantageous as it can provide a more reliable effectiveness rating for a target subject compared to an effectiveness rating generated from a single data type. For instance the observation data for a given teacher may reflect for a particular evaluation period that the teacher received a rating of proficient for four of the metrics evaluated and a needs improvement rating for three of the metrics. However during this same evaluation period the student data may reflect that the students of this teacher gave the teacher a proficient or excellent rating in every category surveyed and the achievement data for these students may reflect standardized test scores which meet or exceed legislative requirements. As a result the effectiveness rating generated by the reporting module can balance the needs improvement ratings against the positive survey and test score results to produce a more accurate overall effectiveness rating for the teacher. In other examples the reporting module may determine the assessments of the target subject described by each data type as being consistent and as providing further evidence support for a particular effectiveness rating.

In some embodiments the reporting module can generate a report based at least in part on the receipt of interaction data describing an interaction between the target subject and the at least one electronic resource that was assigned. The reporting module may be coupled to the content engine the memory and or the data store to receive the interaction data. For example to generate a report the reporting module may analyze user behavior in interacting with one or more electronic resources provided by the professional development application engine and generate a report summarizing and or detailing this analysis. In particular when a user consumes an electronic resource the content engine of the professional development application engine may receive and store interaction data describing the interaction in the data store in association with a user profile associated of the user and the reporting module may access the interaction data to analyze the user interaction and generate a report describing the user interaction.

For example when a user accesses an electronic resource pages through an electronic book downloads files included with or embedded in a webpage complete a survey associated with any electronic resource views a video file listens to an audio file comments on passages of an interactive electronic book submits lesson plans submits curriculum maps downloads documents uploads files including video audio text graphics etc. participates in communities groups defined by his her social graph or otherwise uses any other functionality provided by the client application e.g. see to interact with an electronic resource the professional development application engine receives interaction data describing these interactions from the client application or another entity of the system such as the media distribution server and stores interaction data describing the interaction in the data store . In another example if an observer assigns a target subject to watch a video on achieving effective classroom management via the professional development service the reporting module can generate status updates about the target subject s progress on watching the video and send them to the observer. The reporting module can also report on the target subject s additional efforts to develop his her skills by reporting on what other electronic training resources the target subject has consumed since the observer made the assignment provided the target subject provides his her consent for doing so via an associated privacy settings interface.

In some embodiments the reporting module generates a report in response to receiving a trigger signal. In some embodiments the trigger signal may be generated by the professional development application engine upon the completion of an assignment by a target user and transmitted to the reporting module . In other embodiments the trigger signal may be generated in response to a request for a report for example from a user of the professional development service via an associated user interface. For example an observer who observed a target subject and assigned the target subject one or more electronic resources may input a command into his her user device via the user application commanding that a report be generated describing the target subject s progress on completing the assignment. Responsive to receiving the command the user application may generate and send a report request via the network to the reporting module thus triggering the reporting module to generate and send the report for display to the target subject observer an administrator a combination of the foregoing etc.

In other embodiments the reporting module may automatically generate the report at certain intervals times etc. For example the reporting module may automatically generate reports for all outstanding assignments and send them to the administrator and or observer users who oversee the target subjects that the outstanding assignments correspond to. In some embodiments the reporting module may transmit the report to the user application for display to the user provide the report for download as a portable document transmit the report via electronic message e.g. via email to one or more other users associated with or responsible for the target subject etc.

The reporting module is also capable of analyzing the effectiveness of an observer and generating and providing a report describing the observer s effectiveness to the observer and other users such as an administrator of the observer. In some embodiments to analyze the effectiveness of the observer the reporting module compares achievement data and observation related data associated with the target subject to determine if the performance assessment of the target subject reflected by the observation related is accurate and consistent. The achievement data can include any type of achievement data associated with the target subject. For example depending on the target subject s profession the achievement data may include test scores for one or more pupils of the target subject test scores for the target subject reviews by peers performance reviews sales figures associated with the target subject reviews by clients of the target subject compliance with requirements standards etc. The observation data can include any data associated with the performance assessments made by an observer such as the observation files associated with the observer and or target subject s observed by the observer. In these or other embodiments the reporting module can track the observational assessments performed by an observer and compare them for consistency based on substance frequency etc.

Based on the observation related and achievement data the reporting module can determine the accuracy and consistency of a performance assessment e.g. execution effectiveness compliance performance trending and other metrics etc. of the target subject. In some embodiments the reporting module can analyze the achievement data to determine an achievement based performance assessment for the target subject can analyze the observation related to determine an observation based performance assessment for the target subject and compare the achievement based and the observation based performance assessments to further determine if the observation based performance assessment of the target subject is accurate consistent. In other embodiments the reporting module may compare the observational assessments by one observer of a target subject to the observational assessments of the same target subject by other observers to determine the accuracy of the observer s assessments. For example if an observational assessment of a target subject by a first observer is grossly inconsistent with the observational assessments of that target subject by other observers on the same or similar subject matter the observational assessment of the first observer may be flagged and reported to an administrator of the observer for further review scrutiny.

In some embodiments the accuracy of the observation based performance assessment can be determined based on whether the achievement based and the observation based performance assessments are consistent. For example the reporting module may determine the observation based performance assessment to be inaccurate if the observation based performance assessment is negative and the achievement based performance assessment is positive or conversely if the observation based performance assessment is positive and the achievement based performance assessment is negative.

Further the reporting module may determine the observation based performance assessment to be accurate if both the observation based performance and achievement based performance assessments were negative or positive. However if the both the observation based performance and the achievement based performance assessments were neutral the reporting module may report that the accuracy of the performance assessment made the by the observer could not be verified.

The reporting module can generate a report describing the determination it made about the accuracy of the observer s performance assessment of a target subject and provide the report for display to the observer s or one or more other users such as an administrator of the observer s . In some embodiments the reporting module can generate the report in response to receiving a request from a client device of an administrator user who oversees the observer. In other embodiments the reporting module can automatically generate and send the report to the administrator via an electronic message such as an email an internal messaging application provided by the professional development application a text message etc.

In some embodiments the accuracy of all of the observer s performance assessments of a particular target subject or multiple target subjects may be determined by the reporting module and included in the report. For example the observer s overall accuracy in performing the observational assessments may be computed over time by the reporting module to determine if the observer is consistently inaccurate with his her observations. Additionally the reporting module may compare the accuracy of one or more of an observer s assessments of a target subject to the assessments of that target subject by other observers to determine whether they are consistent. If not information describing the inconsistencies may be included in the report.

The reporting module may also determine whether an observer is properly performing the observational assessments and can include this determination in the report. In some embodiments the reporting module may analyze the observation files for some or all target subjects observed by the observer to determine the level and quality of feedback provided by the observer about those subjects. For example if the reporting module determines that the assessments e.g. answers ratings comments etc. for the target subjects made by the observer in the observation files are all the same or substantially similar the reporting module may determine that the observer is simply making the same assessments for each target subject and is not performing the assessments as required. The reporting module may also make a determination as to the quality of one or more assessments performed by an observer based on the level and or variety of feedback included in the observation file s for one or more target subjects.

The reporting module may store any reports and or data generated by it in the data store for later access by the reporting module or any other component of the professional development server such as an administrative module not shown of the professional development application engine that provides administrator users access via the client application to statistics and reports about the users of the professional development service that the administrator oversees.

In the depicted embodiment the reporting module is coupled to the data store via the bus or the data store via the network and the third party server to receive the achievement data. For example the reporting module can periodically retrieve the achievement data from the third party server via an API and store it locally in the data store for later access or use. In another example the reporting module can retrieve the achievement data real time via the API for analysis and compare it to the observation related data from the observation file. However in other embodiments the reporting module may retrieve the achievement data from any information source communicatively coupled to the professional development server or network via the network.

The reporting module provides numerous additional advantages including providing the target subject a mechanism for reporting on the completion of an assignment providing an observer user a mechanism to monitor whether the target subject s he she observes completes the assignments assign to them analyzing and reporting on an observer s performance and work quality determining rating effectiveness of target subjects etc.

Additional functionality of the professional development application engine the observation engine and their corresponding components are further described below.

The communication unit includes interfaces for interacting with other devices networks of devices. In some embodiments the communication unit includes transceivers for sending and receiving wireless signals. For example the communication unit includes radio transceivers 4G 3G 2G etc. for mobile network connectivity and radio transceivers for WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity. In these or other embodiments the communication unit may include a network interface device I F which includes ports for wired connectivity. For example the communication unit may include a CAT type interface USB interface or SD interface etc. In the depicted embodiment the communication unit is coupled to the network by the signal line .

The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and optionally provide electronic display signals to the display . The processor may communicate with the other components via the bus . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The client device also includes an operating system executable by the processor as discussed elsewhere herein for example with reference to .

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory communicates with the other components of client device via the bus . The instructions and or data comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. In particular the memory includes a non transitory computer usable e.g. readable writeable etc. medium which can be any apparatus or device that can contain store communicate propagate or transport instructions data computer programs software code routines etc. for processing by or in connection with the processor . A non transitory computer usable storage medium may include any and or all computer usable storage media. In some implementations the memory may include volatile memory non volatile memory or both. In some implementations the memory may include volatile memory non volatile memory or both. For example the memory may include a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or any other mass storage device known for storing information on a more permanent basis. It should be understood that the memory may be a single device or may include multiple types of devices and configurations. In some embodiments the client application is stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

The display represents any device equipped to present output signals generated and provided by the client device . In some embodiments the display displays electronic images and data including for example user interfaces and formatted information. For example the display may be any conventional display device monitor or screen such as an organic light emitting diode OLED display a liquid crystal display LCD an e ink display etc. In some embodiments the display is a touch screen display capable of receiving input from one or more fingers of a user . For example the display may be a capacitive touch screen display capable of detecting and interpreting multiple points of contact with the display surface. In some embodiments the display may be coupled to the bus via a graphics adapter which generates and provides display signals to the display . The graphics adapter may be a separate processing device including a separate processor and memory not shown or may be integrated with the processor and memory .

The input device represents any device for inputting data on the client device . In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen display capable of receiving input from the one or more fingers of the user . The functionality of the input device and the display may be integrated and a user of the client device may interact with the client device by contacting a surface of the display using one or more fingers. For example the user may interact with an emulated i.e. virtual or soft keyboard displayed on the touch screen display by using fingers to contacting the display in the keyboard regions. In other embodiments the input device is a separate peripheral device or combination of devices. For example the input device includes a keyboard e.g. a QWERTY keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or touchpad . The input device may also include a microphone e.g. for voice input or other known peripheral devices.

The client application is software including routines for sending and receiving data to the other entities of the system including for example the professional development server the media distribution server and the third party server . In some embodiments the client application is a web browser application for accessing the resources provided by the professional development server and the media distribution server . For example the professional development service operated by the professional development server in cooperation with the media distribution server may be a web based service and the client application may access various electronic resources provided by the service via uniform resource locators URLs . In other embodiments the client application is an application customized specifically for accessing the professional development service and more particularly cooperating and interacting with the observation engine .

In the depicted embodiment the client application provides a user e.g. an observer interacting with the client device mechanisms for inputting viewing adding modifying deleting observation related data related to one or more other users . The client application may cooperate with the observation engine to conveniently store and retrieve observation templates and files. The client application may in some embodiments send a resource request to the observation engine to identify and provide recommended electronic resources that can be assigned to a user. The client application may also send a request to the reporting module to provide observation related statistics and reports for display to the user via a report interface generated by the interface engine of the client application .

In the depicted embodiment the client application includes an observation unit an assignment unit and an interface engine . The observation unit the assignment unit and the interface engine are communicatively coupled with each other and the other components and of the client device . The components are also coupled to the network via the communication unit for communication with the other entities of the system . While not depicted in some embodiments the client application may include an authentication module for authenticating the user to access the professional development service.

In some embodiments the client application the observation unit the assignment unit and or the interface engine are sets of instructions executable by the processor to provide their respective functionality. In other embodiments the client application the observation unit the assignment unit and or the interface engine are stored in the memory of the client device and are accessible and executable by the processor to provide this functionality. In any of these embodiments the client application the observation unit the assignment unit and or the interface engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the client device .

In some embodiments the observation related data managed by the client application may be locally stored in the memory remotely stored in the data store the social graph the third party server or may be stored in any combination of the forgoing thereof. For example an instance of the observation related data may be stored locally on the client device and remotely on the professional development server and the client application may synchronize the information via the network as the information changes. In some embodiments the client application may be a stand alone application or may be integrated into another application operable on the client device .

The observation unit is software including routines for sending and receiving observation related data to the observation module cooperating with the interface engine to display observation related information to a user and cooperating with the interface engine to receive observation related input from the user. In some embodiments the observation unit interacts with the observation module to receive observation templates and observation files for display to the user of the client device and to send observation files to the observation module for processing and or storage in the data store as discussed above with reference to at least .

In some embodiments the observation unit can cooperate with the observation module via the network to provide information about target subjects to an observer and provide functionality to the observer for assessing and tracking the performance and development of the target subjects. The observation unit may also interact with the interface engine to provide administrative tools such as a reporting tool for viewing statistics and other analytical data and or an observational tool for assessing the performance of subordinates assigning development resources to those individuals and tracking completion of the assignments. In some embodiments the observation unit interacts with the interface engine to display observation templates and files to a user as discussed with reference to at least below.

The observation unit may be coupled to the interface engine to receive user input and display the information to the user via user interfaces generated by the interface engine such as the observation interface discussed with reference to below. For example the observation unit may send interface signals to the interface engine and responsive to receiving these signals the interface engine may generate and display user interfaces that correspond to the instructions included in the interface signals. In another example the interface engine may receive input signals from a user via the input device and send those signals to the observation unit for processing. In some embodiments in cooperation with the interface engine the observation unit can receive user related and observation related information and display the data to the user display observation templates to the user populate observation templates with user input save observation files based on the observation templates transmit observation related data such as observation files to the observation module or storage receive observation related statistics and reports and organize and display them to the user receive electronic resources for assignment consumption etc. by the user receive electronic communications from other users via the network and display them to the user etc. In some embodiments an observer may via a user interface rendered by the interface engine preselect options and or be guided similarly in designing observation templates and appropriate follow up activities.

In some embodiments the interface engine in cooperation with the observation unit may generate a report dashboard interface for viewing reports generated and provided by the reporting module and received by the observation unit . This dashboard provides numerous advantages including providing an observer or administrator with detailed information about a given target subject s performance e.g. execution effectiveness compliance etc. over time. For example the observer may be a school principal and may need to visit the classrooms of a number of his her teachers to perform observational assessments of each of them. For each teacher the principal may using the dashboard access any previous observational assessments of that teacher view an overall performance e.g. execution effectiveness compliance etc. rating summary of that teacher view the performance e.g. execution effectiveness compliance etc. ratings summaries of that teacher over time view statistics across all observational assessments of that teacher or a subset such as the observational assessments performed for that academic year may quickly ascertain the areas a teacher has had problems with or has been working on or the areas the teacher has been improving on review the test scores for the students of the teacher student and parent evaluations of the teacher view the electronic training resources the teacher has consumed interacted with view any work product lesson plans videos presentation etc. the teacher has uploaded the professional learning communities and groups the teacher has interacted with any mentors the teacher has been working with etc. Using this information the principal may quick get up to speed on where the teacher is at thus provide pertinent and relevant observations e.g. evaluations ratings suggestions comments etc. and assignments etc. during the observation session to be performed.

The assignment unit is software including routines for generating and sending resource requests receiving resource responses including one or more electronic resources identified by the assignment engine and assigning one or more electronics resources to a user. In some embodiments the assignment unit cooperates and interacts with the assignment engine to identify one or more electronic resources that can be assigned to a user as discussed above with reference to at least .

The assignment unit is coupled to the interface engine to receive user input and provide information to the user via user interfaces generated by the interface engine . In some embodiments responsive to receiving user input signals the assignment unit can generate a resource request or an assignment request. In some embodiments the input signals may specify which electronic resource s is are being assigned and the user the resource s is are being assigned to. For example an observer performing and observation of a target subject may select one or more of the videos identified by the recommendation engine and displayed to the via a user interface such as the observation interface illustrated in . The assignment unit may also assign supplemental instructional prescriptive and or discipline related resources in response to one or more of these resource being assigned by an observer e.g. after receiving a report about an initial assignment . In some embodiments the assignment unit assigns one or more of these resources by generating and sending an assignment request and receiving an assignment confirmation as discussed elsewhere herein. In addition the assignment unit may provide tools functionality to the observer to provide the target subject with feedback follow up with the target subject about an assignment or an aspect observational assessment performed provide recommendations of additional electronic resources to assign to the target subject upon completion of an initial assignment by the target subject etc.

The interface engine is software including routines for rendering user interfaces and for receiving user input. The interface engine may be coupled to the input device via the bus to receive input signals from the user . For example an observer user can select an answer to an observation related question using the input device and the interface engine receives signals describing the answer. The interface engine may store the input signals in the memory for retrieval by the other elements of the client application such as the assignment unit or may provide the signals directly to the other elements of the client application .

The user interfaces generated by the interface engine include interfaces for inputting modifying and deleting information displaying notifications rendering video displaying images and text displaying vector based content sending and storing information etc. In some embodiments the user interfaces include user interface elements that allow users to interact with the client device and input information and commands such as text entry fields selection boxes drop down menus buttons virtual keyboards and numeric pads etc. as further discussed below with reference to

Referring now to an example method for prescribing electronic resources based on observational assessments is described. The method begins by identifying one or more electronic resources based on observation data. In some embodiments the recommendation engine identifies the one or more electronic resources by querying a library of electronic resources for resources that match one or more aspects of the observation data. If a plurality of electronic resources is identified the recommendation engine can rank and filter the electronic resources and thus recommend which electronic resources are the most suitable for a target subject. Next the method provides a summary of the one or more electronic resources to an observer such as a supervisor or evaluator for assignment to subject that he she is observing. For example the client device of the observer may receive a summary of training videos or other resources identified and ranked by the recommendation engine and may display the summary to the observer via a user interface. The observer may use the interface to preview the videos or other resources and or assign one or more of the videos or other resources to the target subject.

Next the method receives an assignment of one or more electronic resources. In some embodiments the assignment engine receives an assignment request describing the one or more electronic resources that are to be assigned to the target subject by the assignment engine . The method continues by associating the assignment of the one or more electronic resources with the target subject. In some embodiments to associate the assignment the assignment engine stores the assignment request or information therefrom in the data store in association with the a user profile of the target subject. The method is then complete and ends.

Next the method receives observation data reflecting an observational assessment made about a target subject. In some embodiments the observation data reflects an answer to a question from an observation template. For example the observation data can describe how the target subject is performing with reference to a particular skill requirement standard etc. Using the metadata associated with the electronic resources the method queries for one or more electronic resources that match the observation data. The match can be loose and allow electronic resources that generally pertain to the observation data to be identified or may be strict and require that the electronic resources be precisely directed to the assessment reflected in the observation data. For example if the target subject is identified as lacking in his or her ability to communicate with students who speak English as a second language a loose match may identify resources generally related to classroom communication and a strict match may identify resources that specifically relate to communicating with students who speak English as second language.

The method continues by ranking the electronic resources identified in block provided multiple electronic resources are identified. In some embodiments the ranking of the electronic resources is based on one or more criteria. Examples of a criterion may include but are not limited to a conclusion result fact statistic or artifact included in the observation data interaction data demographics data achievement data student data teacher data and or standards data. In one example the electronic resources may be ranked based on student and teacher artifacts such as student work or performance lesson plan curriculum maps etc. so as to surface the resources that are the most relevant to the teachers the subject being taught and or the direction of the curriculum being taught. In another example the electronic resources may be ranked based on which electronic resources most closely match the observation data how popular electronic resources are e.g. how many times they have been uniquely interacted with etc. In yet another example the electronic resources may be ranked based on the progress improvement a teacher is making as identified in the observation data in the achievement data for the students of the teacher a combination of the foregoing etc. It should be understood however that the above examples are provided by way of illustration and many other ways to rank the users are possible contemplated and within the scope of this disclosure.

This ranking is beneficial as the electronic resources or a description thereof can automatically be provided in order of most relevant or useful to the observer for assignment to the target subject. In embodiments where only one resource is identified in block the ranking in block is skipped and the method proceeds to block . Next the method sends the electronic resource or resources for assignment to the target subject and the method is complete and ends.

If the method determines that the request does not include a preview request the method then determines whether the request includes an assignment request for assigning one or more electronic resources to a target subject for completion. If so the method determines if any assignment parameters are associated with the assignment request. In some embodiments an assignment parameter places a condition on how the assignment of an electronic resource is to be completed. For example the assignment parameter may be a due date by which the target subject must interact with the electronic resource by. As a further example if electronic resource is a video the assignment parameter may be a due date by which the target subject must watch the video by using an interface associated with the professional service. If it is determined that the request does not include an assignment request the method is then complete and ends.

Next the method assigns the one or more electronic resources to the target subject based on the one or more assignment parameters. In some embodiments the method may assign the one or more electronics resources by storing a record of the assignment in the data store in association with a user profile of the target subject. The record can include information describing the one or more electronic resources and the one or more assignment parameters. The method is then complete and ends.

The method continues by exchanging communications between the target subject and the observer of the target subject. In some embodiments the method facilitates the exchange by providing the contact information e.g. an electronic messaging address of target subject to the observer and vice versa. In other embodiments the method exchanges communication by relaying electronic messages between messaging accounts of the target subject and the observer using an internal messaging service. Exchanging communication using other messaging services such as email instant messaging SMS etc. is also contemplated. In these embodiments the method may store record of any communications exchanged between the target subject and the observer for later reference and retrieval. Exchanging communication between the observer and the target subject is advantageous in a number of respects including that it provides a feedback loop between the target subject and the observer. For example the target subject may communicate questions to the observer about what specific areas the target subject should focus on improving when interacting with an electronic resource assigned to him her by the observer and the observer may provide feedback to the target subject. In some embodiments the communications exchanged by the method may be included in a report generated by the reporting module to summarize the interaction between a target subject and an observer.

Next the method determines the conclusion of the assignment. For example the method can determine whether the assignment was successfully completed was never begun or was in progress at the conclusion of the time set for completing the assignment. The method then updates the user profile of the target subject to reflect the conclusion. In some embodiments the reporting module updates a record stored in the data store with data reflecting the conclusion.

The method continues by generating a report describing the status of the assignment and providing it to the observer and or other users. The report may include the conclusion determined by the method in block any electronic communication exchanged between the target subject in the observer in block and any other information about the assignment including a description of the electronic resource s information from the observation file associated with the assignment statistics and results from other observational assessments performed previously of the target subject any related industry standards performance benchmarks or job requirements etc.

The method then determines whether the assignment was successfully completed. In some embodiments this determination is based on the conclusion from block . If the method determines the assignment to have been successfully completed the method continues by identifying one or more related supplemental electronic resources. In some embodiments the method identifies these resources in response to receiving a supplemental resource request from a client device . In other embodiments the method identifies the supplemental electronic resources in response to receiving a signal for the resources from one of the components of the observation engine . For example upon determining that the assignment had been successfully completed the reporting module may signal the recommendation engine to identify supplemental electronic resources related to the observation data or electronic resource associated with the assignment. The method may then provide a summary of the related supplemental electronic resources identified in block to the observer or another user for assignment to the target subject. For example a summary of these supplemental resources may be included in a report provided to the observer and the client application may display the report to the observer and provide functionality to the observer for assigning one or more of the supplemental resources to the target subject. In some embodiments blocks can be performed prior to block and then information describing the additional resources identified in blocks or can be included in the report generated in block and provided in block to the observer. In these embodiments blocks and would be eliminated.

If the method determines the assignment to have not been successfully completed the method continues by identifying discipline related electronic resources. In some embodiments the reporting module may signal the recommendation engine to identify one or more discipline related electronic resources that can be assigned to the target subject. The recommendation engine may identify these resources based on the conclusion determined in block and using operations that are substantially similar to or the same as the operations described above with reference to block of method . The recommendation engine may also rank these resources for example using the operations discussed above with reference to block of method . Additionally or alternatively one or more electronic resources that are discipline related may be pre prepared for circumstances where a target subject fails to complete an assignment and may be identified as such in a data store such as the resource library database. For example in educational setting a school district may have prepared an electronic resource such as the instructional digital video emphasizing the importance of the observation process and the need for target subjects to complete any professional development training assigned to them via the observation engine .

The method may then provide a summary of the discipline related supplemental electronic resources identified in block to the observer or another user for assignment to the target subject. For example a summary of these electronics resources may be included in a report provided to the observer and the client application may display the report to the observer and provide functionality to the observer for assigning one or more of the discipline related resources to the target subject. The method is then complete and ends.

The one or more electronic resources are then displayed by the method to the observer. Next the method receives user input selecting one of the electronic resources and determines whether the user input includes an instruction to present the resource for review. If so the method requests the electronic resource for presentation. In some embodiments the method sends a presentation request to the server hosting the resource requesting the server provide the electronic resource for presentation. For example the electronic resource is a video and the assignment engine receives a video stream from the media distribution server responsive to sending a preview request to the content engine . If the user input does not include an instruction to present the resource the method continues by determining whether the user input includes an instruction to assign the electronic resource to the target subject for completion. If so the method requests the assignment of the electronic resource to the target subject. In some embodiments an assignment request is sent by the assignment unit to the assignment engine via the network requesting the electronic resource be assigned to the target subject for completion. If the method determines that the user input does not include an instruction to assign the electronic resource the method is then complete and ends.

It should be understood that the methods are provided by way of example and the variations and combinations of these methods as well as other methods are contemplated. For example in some embodiments at least a portion of the methods represent various segments of one or more larger methods and may be concatenated or various steps of these methods may be combined to produce other methods which are encompassed by the present disclosure. Additionally it should be understood that the assignments of electronic resources and reporting on the conclusions of the assignments as described with reference to at least the methods could be iterative and thus repeated as many times as necessary to assist a target subject with his or her professional development.

To illustrate various aspects of the system and the methods the following non limiting example is provided. A school principal may visit the classrooms of each teacher in his her school to observe the teacher in action and provide an assessment of the teacher s performance. The principal may launch the client application on his her wireless client device and once launched the observation unit of the client application may refresh a local repository with updated teacher information and observation templates received from the observation engine via the network . The principal using an interface generated by the interface engine may select previously completed observation files for a given teacher to view how the teacher performed during previous observation sessions. The principal using an interface of the client application may also select to perform a new observation assessment of the teacher by selecting the observation template that should be used as a basis for the observation and the name of the teacher that he is to observe. In response to the selection the observation unit then opens the observation template for the principal to populate with his her observations e.g. assessments evaluations ratings comments etc. and assignments etc. The principal using the question and answer feedback fields provided in the template provides input observation data assessing the performance e.g. execution compliance effectiveness etc. of the teacher with respect to various criteria standards.

Upon answering a question about whether the teacher implements effective classroom management to maximize student learning the principal selects a predefined answer indicating that the teacher is developing in this area. The assignment unit responds to receiving the input by sending a resource request to the recommendation engine including information associated with the question and or answer and in reply the recommendation engine using the information provided with the resource request identifies ranks and provides a list of recommended training videos related to classroom management. This list is displayed by the interface engine to the observer and the observer selects the first video in the list and assigns it to the teacher with a due date of two weeks from the date of the observation using the functionality of the client application . In response the assignment unit sends an assignment request to the assignment engine which records the assignment request in the data store in association with a user profile of the teacher. The reporting module monitors the teacher s progress in watching the training video and reports the progress to the observer by generating and sending weekly reports summarizing the progress to the observer via email. The reporting module also stores the reports in the data store for access by the principal via an interface of the client application . The teacher watches the video by accessing the video via a webpage served by the professional development application engine in cooperation with the media distribution server the day before the due date and the reporting module reports the completion of the assignment to the principal by sending a report to the observer via email and storing the report in the data store for later access by the observer via the client application .

Referring now to an example observation interface for assigning electronic resources is described. It should be understood that the user interface illustrated in is provided merely by way of example and that other user interfaces may be generated and displayed by the client application to allow users to interact with the system and to allow the system to present information to the users. For example various user interfaces may be produced to display reports and statistics display dialogs set parameters and settings send electronic communications view listen to and or interact with the electronic resources provided by the professional development service etc.

As depicted in the observation interface includes a menu region and an observation region . The menu region includes selectors for selecting the user for which an observation will be performed. The menu region also includes an observation creation button . Selecting a user selector displays a corresponding observation file created being created for that user. For example in the depicted embodiment the user selector for John Smith has been selected and a corresponding observation file for John Smith is being populated with assessment information by the observer in the observation region . Selecting the observation creation button creates a new observation file from an observation template. In some embodiments in response to the selection of the observation creation button a dialog not shown displaying a list of users is presented to the observer. In some embodiments the list of users represents all of the users that are associated with a particular organization or company. For example in educational setting the list of users may include all of the teachers of a school or may be a segmented list listing all of the schools within a school district and their corresponding teachers and administrators. In some embodiments this list is provided on demand to the observation unit by the observation module via the network and rendered for display by the interface engine . In other embodiments the observation unit may retrieve the list from a local repository and provide it to the interface engine for display. Using the user interface the observer may then select who the target subject is from the list of users and responsive to receiving this input the interface engine may render the observation interface for the target subject similar to the one displayed in .

The observation region includes a header region and a body region . The header region includes fields for displaying who the target subject of the observation is e.g. John Smith who the observer is e.g. Mary Anderson which observation template is being used for the observation and for inputting the date and time the observation session was started and completed. The header region also includes an options dialogue for configuring settings such as how the observation file is to be distributed and stored. For example the observer may check a checkbox to set an option for storing the observation file in the data store for later access.

The body region includes elements for the observer to input his her assessments made during the observation. For example as depicted in the body region includes an assessment region including a standard that the target subject must meet a question indicator for the observer and answer elements for answering the question indication. For instance the question indicator states t eacher implements effective classroom management to maximize student learning and the observer inputs information indicating that the target subject s performance in this area is developing and information commenting about the target subject s performance.

As depicted the body region also includes a resource region for displaying one or more electronic resources. In some embodiments the electronic resources displayed in the resources region are received from the recommendation engine and displayed in the resource region responsive to the observer inputting information into the answer elements . For example upon receiving the input from the observer the observation unit transmits a resource request to the recommendation engine requesting a list of related electronic resources be provided based on the input e.g. observation data .

The resource region as depicted includes a resource scrolling region a scrollbar one or more electronic resources a resource description region an assignment button a preview button and a due date button . The resource scrolling region provides the user with functionality to scroll through and select one or more of the various electronic resources displayed therein. The scrolling can be performed by interacting with the scrollbar or the resource scrolling region e.g. swiping the resource scrolling region via a touch sensitive display with an input element such as a finger . The selecting can be performed by interacting with the representations of the electronic resources in the resource scrolling region. For example selecting on an electronic resource once selects the resource and selecting it again unselects the resource. Multiple selection is also possible using known selection methods.

Once one or more resources have been selected by the observer they can be previewed or assigned using the corresponding preview and assignment buttons and . In some embodiments selecting the preview button transmits a request for a selected electronic resource and once received displays the selected electronic resource s in a preview interface with interface elements allowing the user to view and interact with the electronic resource. For example the selected electronic resource is a video and the selecting the preview button displays a media player for viewing the video.

In some embodiments selecting the assignment button sends an assignment request to the assignment unit requesting the assignment of the one or more selected electronic resources to the target subject. In reply the assignment unit may send a confirmation response to the assignment unit indicating that the one or more resources were successfully assigned. Once this response has been received the scrollable resource region may be refreshed to only display the resources that were assigned and the assignment button may change to an unassign button to indicate that the displayed resources have been assigned and provide functionality for the observer to unassign them if desired. The due date button is an example of an input element for setting an assignment parameter. As depicted when the due date button is selected a calendar dialog is displayed for selecting a date for when the assignment of the one or more electronic resources should be completed. It should be understood that the observation interface could include any number of interface elements for setting assignment parameters.

In some embodiments the resource region may initially be hidden from display until the user inputs observation data into one or more of the answer elements . In other embodiments the resource region may always be displayed or may be hidden or displayed by selecting a corresponding expansion contraction button not shown . While only one assessment region and resource region are displayed in the depicted embodiment it should be understood that numerous assessment regions and corresponding resource regions could be included. For example there could be numerous standards and associated questions indicators for measuring the target subject s performance during observation and thus numerous corresponding resource regions for displaying electronic resources that correspond to the various assessments that have been made by the observer during the observation session.

An example system and methods for prescribing electronic resources based on observational assessments have been described. In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It should be understood that the technology described in the various example embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description.

Reference in the present disclosure to some embodiments an embodiment an example embodiment other embodiments etc. means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the description. The appearances of the phrase in some embodiments in various places in the present disclosure are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiments.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including for example processing or computing or calculating or ranking or identifying or determining or displaying or receiving or conducting or collecting or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present embodiment of the present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium including for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The present disclosure can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the present disclosure is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems wireless adapters and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present disclosure as described herein.

It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present disclosure or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present disclosure is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the subject matter set forth in the following claims.

