---

title: Identifier encoding scheme for use with multi-path connectors
abstract: One exemplary embodiment is directed to a method of tracking a plurality of communication paths in a connector assembly having a plurality of first attachment points and a plurality of second attachment points. The plurality of first attachment points and the plurality of second attachment points are configured to attach physical communication media to the connector assembly. The method comprises reading, from a storage device associated with the connector assembly first, information indicative of a plurality of communication paths formed within the connector assembly between the first attachment points and the second attachment points. The method further comprises reading second information stored on or in physical communication media that is attached to the connector assembly and communicating the first and second information to an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the connector assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081537&OS=09081537&RS=09081537
owner: ADC Telecommunications, Inc.
number: 09081537
owner_city: Berwyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 729 filed on Mar. 25 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 715 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DOUBLE BUFFER INSERTION COUNT STORED IN A DEVICE ATTACHED TO A PHYSICAL LAYER MEDIUM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 426 821 filed on even date herewith titled DOUBLE BUFFER INSERTION COUNT STORED IN A DEVICE ATTACHED TO A PHYSICAL LAYER MEDIUM which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 725 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled DYNAMICALLY DETECTING A DEFECTIVE CONNECTOR AT A PORT which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 426 805 filed on even date herewith titled DYNAMICALLY DETECTING A DEFECTIVE CONNECTOR AT A PORT which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 736 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING VARIABLE LENGTH DATA FIELD STORAGE SCHEMES ON PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION MEDIA SEGMENTS which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 426 777 filed on even date herewith titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING VARIABLE LENGTH DATA FIELD STORAGE SCHEMES ON PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION MEDIA SEGMENTS which is hereby incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 467 743 filed on Mar. 25 2011 titled EVENT MONITORING IN A SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY OBTAINING AND MANAGING PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION USING A RELIABLE PACKET BASED COMMUNICATION which is hereby incorporated herein by reference and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 426 764 filed on even date herewith titled EVENT MONITORING IN A SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY OBTAINING AND MANAGING PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION USING A RELIABLE PACKET BASED COMMUNICATION which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Communication networks typically include numerous logical communication links between various items of equipment. Often a single logical communication link is implemented using several pieces of physical communication media. For example a logical communication link between a computer and an inter networking device such as a hub or router can be implemented as follows. A first cable connects the computer to a jack mounted in a wall. A second cable connects the wall mounted jack to a port of a patch panel and a third cable connects the inter networking device to another port of a patch panel. A patch cord cross connects the two together. In other words a single logical communication link is often implemented using several segments of physical communication media.

A network or enterprise management system generally referred to here as a network management system or NMS is typically aware of the logical communication links that exist in a network but typically does not have information about the specific physical layer media that are used to implement the logical communication links. Indeed NMS systems typically do not have the ability to display or otherwise provide information about how logical communication links are implemented at the physical layer level.

Physical layer management PLM systems do exist. However existing PLM systems are typically designed to facilitate the adding changing and removing of cross connections at a particular patch panel or a set of patch panels at a given location. Generally such PLM systems include functionality to track what is connected to each port of a patch panel trace connections that are made using a patch panel and provide visual indications to a user at a patch panel. However such PLM systems are typically patch panel centric in that they are focused on helping a technician correctly add change or remove cross connections at a patch panel. Any intelligence included in or coupled to the patch panel is typically only designed to facilitate making accurate cross connections at the patch panel and troubleshooting related problems for example by detecting whether a patch cord is inserted into a given port and or by determining which ports are coupled to one another using a patch cord .

Moreover any information that such PLM systems collect is typically only used within the PLM systems. In other words the collections of information that such PLM systems maintain are logical islands that are not used at the application layer level by other systems. Though such PLM systems are sometimes connected to other networks for example connected to local area networks or the Internet such network connections are typically only used to enable a user to remotely access the PLM systems. That is a user remotely accesses the PLM related application layer functionality that resides in the PLM system itself using the external network connection but external systems or networks typically do not themselves include any application layer functionality that makes use of any of the physical layer related information that resides in the PLM system.

One exemplary embodiment is directed to a method of tracking a plurality of communication paths in a connector assembly having a plurality of first attachment points and a plurality of second attachment points. The plurality of first attachment points and the plurality of second attachment points are configured to attach physical communication media to the connector assembly. The method comprises reading from a storage device associated with the connector assembly first information indicative of a plurality of communication paths formed within the connector assembly between the first attachment points and the second attachment points. The method further comprises reading second information stored on or in physical communication media that is attached to the connector assembly and communicating the first and second information to an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the connector assembly.

Each segment of physical communication media is attached to a respective port . Each port is used to connect two or more segments of physical communication media to one another for example to implement a portion of a logical communication link . Examples of connector assemblies include for example rack mounted connector assemblies such as patch panels distribution units and media converters for fiber and copper physical communication media wall mounted connector assemblies such as boxes jacks outlets and media converters for fiber and copper physical communication media and inter networking devices such as switches routers hubs repeaters gateways and access points .

At least some of the connector assemblies are designed for use with segments of physical communication media that have identifier and attribute information stored in or on them. The identifier and attribute information is stored in or on the segment of physical communication media in a manner that enables the stored information when the segment is attached to a port to be read by a programmable processor associated with the connector assembly . Examples of information that can be stored in or on a segment of physical communication media include without limitation an identifier that uniquely identifies that particular segment of physical communication media similar to an ETHERNET Media Access Control MAC address but associated with the physical communication media and or connector attached to the physical communication media a part number a plug or other connector type a cable or fiber type and length a serial number a cable polarity a date of manufacture a manufacturing lot number information about one or more visual attributes of physical communication media or a connector attached to the physical communication media such as information about the color or shape of the physical communication media or connector or an image of the physical communication media or connector and other information used by an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or inventory control system. In other embodiments alternate or additional data is stored in or on the media segments. For example testing media quality or performance information can be stored in or on the segment of physical communication media. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be the results of testing that is performed when a particular segment of media is manufactured.

Also as noted below in some embodiments the information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media can be updated. For example the information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media can be updated to include the results of testing that is performed when a segment of physical media is installed or otherwise checked. In another example such testing information is supplied to an aggregation point and stored in a data store maintained by the aggregation point both of which are described below . In another example the information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media includes a count of the number of times that a connector not shown attached to a segment of physical communication media has been inserted into port . In such an example the count stored in or on the segment of physical communication media is updated each time the connector is inserted into port . This insertion count value can be used for example for warranty purposes for example to determine if the connector has been inserted more than the number of times specified in the warranty or for security purposes for example to detect unauthorized insertions of the physical communication media .

In the particular embodiment shown in each of the ports of the connector assemblies comprises a respective media interface via which the respective programmable processor is able to determine if a physical communication media segment is attached to that port and if one is to read the identifier and attribute information stored in or on the attached segment if such information is stored therein or thereon . The programmable processor associated with each connector assembly is communicatively coupled to each of the media interfaces using a suitable bus or other interconnect not shown .

In the particular embodiment shown in four exemplary types of connector assembly configurations are shown. In the first connector assembly configuration shown in each connector assembly includes its own respective programmable processor and its own respective network interface that is used to communicatively couple that connector assembly to an Internet Protocol IP network .

In the second type of connector assembly configuration a group of connector assemblies are physically located near each other for example in a bay or equipment closet . Each of the connector assemblies in the group includes its own respective programmable processor . However in the second connector assembly configuration some of the connector assemblies referred to here as interfaced connector assemblies include their own respective network interfaces while some of the connector assemblies referred to here as non interfaced connector assemblies do not. The non interfaced connector assemblies are communicatively coupled to one or more of the interfaced connector assemblies in the group via local connections. In this way the non interfaced connector assemblies are communicatively coupled to the IP network via the network interface included in one or more of the interfaced connector assemblies in the group. In the second type of connector assembly configuration the total number of network interfaces used to couple the connector assemblies to the IP network can be reduced. Moreover in the particular embodiment shown in the non interfaced connector assemblies are connected to the interfaced connector assembly using a daisy chain topology though other topologies can be used in other implementations and embodiments .

In the third type of connector assembly configuration a group of connector assemblies are physically located near each other for example within a bay or equipment closet . Some of the connector assemblies in the group also referred to here as master connector assemblies include both their own programmable processors and network interfaces while some of the connector assemblies also referred to here as slave connector assemblies do not include their own programmable processors or network interfaces . Each of the slave connector assemblies is communicatively coupled to one or more of the master connector assemblies in the group via one or more local connections. The programmable processor in each of the master connector assemblies is able to carry out the processing described below for both the master connector assembly of which it is a part and any slave connector assemblies to which the master connector assembly is connected via the local connections. As a result the cost associated with the slave connector assemblies can be reduced. In the particular embodiment shown in the slave connector assemblies are connected to a master connector assembly in a star topology though other topologies can be used in other implementations and embodiments .

Each programmable processor is configured to execute software or firmware shown in that causes the programmable processor to carry out various functions described below. The software comprises program instructions that are stored or otherwise embodied on an appropriate non transitory storage medium or media such as flash or other non volatile memory magnetic disc drives and or optical disc drives . At least a portion of the program instructions are read from the storage medium by the programmable processor for execution thereby. The storage medium on or in which the program instructions are embodied is also referred to here as a program product . Although the storage medium is shown in as being included in and local to the connector assembly it is to be understood that remote storage media for example storage media that is accessible over a network or communication link and or removable media can also be used. Each connector assembly also includes suitable memory not shown that is coupled to the programmable processor for storing program instructions and data. In general the programmable processor and the software executing thereon determines if a physical communication media segment is attached to a port with which that processor is associated and if one is to read the identifier and attribute information stored in or on the attached physical communication media segment if the segment includes such information stored therein or thereon using the associated media interface .

As shown in in the first second and third configurations and each programmable processor is also configured to communicate physical layer information to devices that are coupled to the IP network . The physical layer information PLI includes information about the connector assemblies associated with that programmable processor also referred to here as device information as well as information about any segments of physical media attached to the ports of those connector assemblies also referred to here as media information . The device information includes for example an identifier for each connector assembly a type identifier that identifies the connector assembly s type and port priority information that associates a priority level with each port. The media information includes identity and attribute information that the programmable processor has read from attached physical media segments that have identifier and attribute information stored in or on it. The media information may also include information about physical communication media that does not have identifier or attribute information stored in or on it. This latter type of media information can be manually input at the time the associated physical media segments are attached to the connector assembly for example using a management application executing on the programmable processor that enables a user to configure and monitor the connector assembly .

In the fourth type of connector assembly configuration a group of connector assemblies are housed within a common chassis or other enclosure. Each of the connector assemblies in the configuration includes their own programmable processors . In the context of this configuration the programmable processors in each of the connector assemblies are slave processors . Each of the slave programmable processor is also communicatively coupled to a common master programmable processor for example over a backplane included in the chassis or enclosure . The master programmable processor is coupled to a network interface that is used to communicatively couple the master programmable processor to the IP network . In this configuration each slave programmable processor is configured to determine if physical communication media segments are attached to its port and to read the identifier and attribute information stored in or on the attached physical communication media segments if the attached segments have such information stored therein or thereon using the associated media interfaces . This information is communicated from the slave programmable processor in each of the connector assemblies in the chassis to the master processor . The master processor is configured to handle the processing associated with communicating the physical layer information read from by the slave processors to devices that are coupled to the IP network .

The system includes functionality that enables the physical layer information that the connector assemblies capture to be used by application layer functionality outside of the traditional physical layer management application domain. That is the physical layer information is not retained in a PLM island used only for PLM purposes but is instead made available to other applications. In the particular embodiment shown in the system includes an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the connector assemblies via the IP network .

The aggregation point includes functionality that obtains physical layer information from the connector assemblies and other devices and stores the physical layer information in a data store.

The aggregation point can be used to receive physical layer information from various types of connector assemblies that have functionality for automatically reading information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media. Examples of such connector assemblies are noted above. Also the aggregation point and aggregation functionality can also be used to receive physical layer information from other types of devices that have functionality for automatically reading information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media. Examples of such devices include end user devices such as computers peripherals such as printers copiers storage devices and scanners and IP telephones that include functionality for automatically reading information stored in or on the segment of physical communication media.

The aggregation point can also be used to obtain other types of physical layer information. For example in this embodiment the aggregation point also obtains information about physical communication media segments that is not otherwise automatically communicated to an aggregation point . One example of such information is information about non connectorized physical communication media segments that do not otherwise have information stored in or on them that are attached to a connector assembly including for example information indicating which ports of the devices are connected to which ports of other devices in the network as well as media information about the segment . Another example of such information is information about physical communication media segments that are connected to devices that are not able to read media information that is stored in or on the media segments that are attached to their ports and or that are not able to communicate such information to the aggregation point for example because such devices do not include such functionality because such devices are used with media segments that do not have media information stored in or on them and or because bandwidth is not available for communicating such information to the aggregation point . In this example the information can include for example information about the devices themselves such as the devices MAC addresses and IP addresses if assigned to such devices information indicating which ports of the devices are connected to which ports of other devices in the network for example other connector assemblies and information about the physical media attached to the ports of the devices. This information can be provided to the aggregation point for example by manually entering such information into a file such as a spreadsheet and then uploading the file to the aggregation point for example using a web browser in connection with the initial installation of each of the various items. Such information can also for example be directly entered using a user interface provided by the aggregation point for example using a web browser .

The aggregation point can also obtain information about the layout of the building or buildings in which the network is deployed as well as information indicating where each connector assembly physical media segment and inter networking device is located within the building. This information can be for example manually entered and verified for example using a web browser in connection with the initial installation of each of the various items. In one implementation such location information includes an X Y and Z location for each port or other termination point for each physical communication media segment for example X Y and Z location information of the type specified in the ANSI TIA EIA 606 A Standard Administration Standard For The Commercial Telecommunications Infrastructure .

The aggregation point can obtain and maintain testing media quality or performance information relating to the various segments of physical communication media that exist in the network. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be results of testing that is performed when a particular segment of media is manufactured and or when testing is performed when a particular segment of media is installed or otherwise checked.

The aggregation point also includes functionality that provides an interface for external devices or entities to access the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point . This access can include retrieving information from the aggregation point as well as supplying information to the aggregation point . In this embodiment the aggregation point is implemented as middleware that is able to provide such external devices and entities with transparent and convenient access to the PLI maintained by the access point . Because the aggregation point aggregates PLI from the relevant devices on the IP network and provides external devices and entities with access to such PLI the external devices and entities do not need to individually interact with all of the devices in the IP network that provide PLI nor do such devices need to have the capacity to respond to requests from such external devices and entities.

The aggregation point in the embodiment shown in implements an application programming interface API by which application layer functionality can gain access to the physical layer information maintained by the aggregation point using a software development kit SDK that describes and documents the API. Also in those embodiments where the connector assemblies include one or more light emitting diodes LEDs for example where each port has an associated LED the API and aggregation point can include functionality that enables application layer functionality to change the state of such LEDs using the API.

For example as shown in a network management system NMS includes physical layer information PLI functionality that is configured to retrieve physical layer information from the aggregation point and provide it to the other parts of the NMS for use thereby. The NMS uses the retrieved physical layer information to perform one or more network management functions for example as described below . In one implementation of the embodiment shown in the PLI functionality of the NMS retrieves physical layer information from the aggregation point using the API implemented by the aggregation point . The NMS communicates with the aggregation point over the IP network .

As shown in an application executing on a computer can also use the API implemented by the aggregation point to access the PLI information maintained by the aggregation point for example to retrieve such information from the aggregation point and or to supply such information to the aggregation point . The computer is coupled to the IP network and accesses the aggregation point over the IP network .

In the embodiment shown in one or more inter networking devices used to implement the IP network include physical layer information PLI functionality . The PLI functionality of the inter networking device is configured to retrieve physical layer information from the aggregation point and use the retrieved physical layer information to perform one or more inter networking functions. Examples of inter networking functions include Layer 1 Layer 2 and Layer 3 of the OSI model inter networking functions such as the routing switching repeating bridging and grooming of communication traffic that is received at the inter networking device. In one implementation of such an embodiment the PLI functionality uses the API implemented by the aggregation point to communicate with the aggregation point .

The PLI functionality included in the inter networking device can also be used to capture physical layer information associated with the inter network device and the physical communication media attached to it and communicate the captured physical layer information to the aggregation point . Such information can be provided to the aggregation point using the API or by using the protocols that are used to communicate with the connector assemblies .

The aggregation point can be implemented on a standalone network node for example a standalone computer running appropriate software or can be integrated along with other network functionality for example integrated with an element management system or network management system or other network server or network element . Moreover the functionality of the aggregation point can be distributed across many nodes and devices in the network and or implemented for example in a hierarchical manner for example with many levels of aggregation points .

Moreover the aggregation point and the connector assemblies are configured so that the aggregation point can automatically discover and connect with devices that provide PLI to an aggregation point such as the connector assemblies and inter network device that are on the network . In this way when devices that are able to provide PLI to an aggregation point such as a connector assembly or an inter networking device are coupled to the IP network an aggregation point is able to automatically discover the connector assembly and start aggregating physical layer information for that connector assembly without requiring the person installing the connector assembly to have knowledge of the aggregation points that are on the IP network . Similarly when an aggregation point is coupled to the IP network the aggregation point is able to automatically discover and interact with devices that are capable of providing PLI to an aggregation point without requiring the person installing the aggregation point to have knowledge of the devices that are on the IP network . Thus the physical layer information resources described here can be easily integrated into the IP network .

The IP network can include one or more local area networks and or wide area networks including for example the Internet . As a result the aggregation point NMS and computer need not be located at the same site as each other or at the same site as the connector assemblies or the inter networking devices .

Various conventional IP networking techniques can be used in deploying the system of . For example conventional security protocols can be used to secure communications if they are communicated over a public or otherwise unsecure communication channel such as the Internet or over a wireless communication link .

In one implementation of the embodiment shown in each connector assembly each port of each connector assembly and each media segment is individually addressable. Where IP addresses are used to individually address each connector assembly a virtual private network VPN dedicated for use with the various connector assemblies can be used to segregate the IP addresses used for the connector assemblies from the main IP address space that is used in the IP network .

Also power can be supplied to the connector assemblies using conventional Power over Ethernet techniques specified in the IEEE 802.3af standard which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In such an implementation a power hub or other power supplying device located near or incorporated into an inter networking device that is coupled to each connector assembly injects DC power onto one or more of the wires also referred to here as the power wires included in the copper twisted pair cable used to connect each connector assembly to the associated inter networking device. The interface in the connector assembly picks the injected DC power off of the power wires and uses the picked off power to power the active components of that connector assembly . In the second and third connector assembly configurations and some of the connector assemblies are not directly connected to the IP network and therefore are unable to receive power directly from the power wires. These connector assemblies receive power from the connector assemblies that are directly connected to the IP network via the local connections that communicatively couple such connector assemblies to one another. In the fourth configuration the interface picks the injected DC power off of the power wires and supplies power to the master processor and each of the slave processors over the backplane.

In the particular embodiment shown in the system also supports conventional physical layer management PLM operations such as the tracking of moves adds and changes of the segments of physical media that are attached to the ports of the connector assemblies and providing assistance with carrying out moves adds and changes. PLI provided by the aggregation point can be used to improve upon conventional guided MAC processes. For example information about the location of the port and the visual appearance for example the color or shape of the relevant physical media segment or connector attached thereto can be communicated to a technician to assist the technician in carrying out a move add or change. This information can be communicated to a computer or smartphone used by the technician. Moreover the PLI functionality that resides in the system can also be used to verify that a particular MAC was properly carried out by checking that the expected physical media segment is located in the expected port . If that is not the case an alert can be sent to the technician so that the technician can correct the issue.

The PLM functionality included in the system can also support conventional techniques for guiding the technician in carrying out a MAC for example by illuminating one or more light emitting diodes LEDs to direct a technician to a particular connector assembly and or to a particular port or by displaying messages on a liquid crystal display LCD included on or near the connector assemblies .

Other PLM functions include keeping historical logs about the media connected to the connector assembly. In the embodiment shown in the aggregation point includes PLM functionality that implements such PLM functions. The PLM functionality does this using the physical layer information that is maintained at the aggregation point .

The IP network is typically implemented using one or more inter networking devices. As noted above an inter networking device is a type of connector assembly and a particular implementation of an inter networking device is referenced separately in for ease of explanation only . Generally an inter networking device can be configured to read media information that is stored in or on the segments of physical media that are attached to its ports and to communicate the media information it reads from the attached segments of media as well as information about the inter networking device itself to an aggregation point like any other connector assembly described here.

In addition to connector assemblies the techniques described here for reading media information stored in or on a segment of physical communication media can be used in one or more end nodes of the IP network . For example computers such as laptops servers desktop computers or special purpose computing devices such as IP telephones IP multi media appliances and storage devices can be configured to read media information that is stored in or on the segments of physical communication media that are attached to their ports and to communicate the media information they read from the attached segments of media as well as information about the devices themselves to an aggregation point as described here.

In one implementation of the system shown in the ports of each connector assembly are used to implement the IP network over which each connector assembly communicates physical layer information associated with that connector assembly . In such an implementation such physical layer information is communicated over the IP network just like any other data that is communicated over the IP network . As noted below the media interface determines if a physical communication media segment is attached to the corresponding port and if one is reads the identifier and attribute information stored in or on the attached segment if such information is stored therein or thereon without affecting the normal data signals that pass through that port . Indeed such physical layer information may actually pass through one or more of the ports of connector assemblies in the course of being communicated to and or from a connector assembly aggregation point network management system and or computer . By using the IP network to communicate physical layer information pertaining to it a separate network need not be provided and maintained in order to communicate such physical layer information. However in other implementations and embodiments the physical layer information described above is communicated using a network that is separate from the network to which such physical layer information pertains.

Each port comprises a first attachment point and a second attachment point . The first attachment point is used to attach a first segment of physical communication media to the port and the second attachment point is used to attach a second segment of physical communication media to the port .

In the particular embodiment shown in the first attachment point is located near the rear of the connector assembly. As a consequence the first attachment point and the first segment of physical media attached thereto are also referred to here as the rear attachment point and the rear media segment respectively. Also in this embodiment the rear attachment point is configured to attach the rear media segment to the port in a semi permanent manner. As used herein a semi permanent attachment is one that is designed to be changed relatively infrequently if ever. This is also referred to sometimes as a one time connection. Examples of suitable rear connectors include punch down blocks in the case of copper physical media and fiber adapters fiber splice points and fiber termination points in the case of optical physical media .

In the embodiment shown in the second attachment point is located near the front of the connector assembly . As a consequence the second attachment point and the second segment of physical media are also referred to here as the front attachment point and the front media segment respectively. In the embodiment shown in the front attachment point for each port is designed for use with connectorized front media segments that have identifier and attribute information stored in or on them. As used herein a connectorized media segment is a segment of physical communication media that includes a connector at at least one end of the segment. The front attachment point is implemented using a suitable connector or adapter that mates with the corresponding connector on the end of the front media segment . The connector is used to facilitate the easy and repeated attachment and unattachment of the front media segment to the port . Examples of connectorized media segments include CAT and twisted pair cables having modular connectors or plugs attached to both ends in which case the front connectors are implemented using compatible modular jacks or optical cables having SC LC FC LX. MTP or MPO connectors in which case the front connectors are implemented using compatible SC LC FC LX. MTP or MPO connectors or adapters . The techniques described here can be used with other types of connectors including for example BNC connectors F connectors DSX jacks and plugs bantam jacks and plugs and MPO and MTP multi fiber connectors and adapters.

Each port communicatively couples the respective rear attachment point to the respective front attachment point . As a result a rear media segment attached to the respective rear attachment point is communicatively coupled to any front media segment attached to the respective front attachment point . In one implementation each port is designed for use with a rear media segment and a front media segment that comprise the same type of physical communication media in which case each port communicatively couples any rear media segment attached to the respective rear attachment point to any front media segment attached to the respective front attachment point at the physical layer level without any media conversion. In other implementations each port communicatively couples any rear media segment attached to the respective rear attachment point to any front media segment attached to the respective front attachment point in other ways for example using a media converter if the rear media segment and the front media segment comprise different types of physical communication media .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the port is configured for use with front media segments that include a storage device in which the media information for that media segment is stored. The storage device includes a storage device interface that when the corresponding connector is inserted into or otherwise attached to a front attachment point of the port communicatively couples the storage device to a corresponding media interface so that the associated programmable processor can read the information stored in the storage device . In one implementation of the embodiment shown in each connector itself houses the storage device . In another implementation of such an embodiment the storage device is housed within a housing that is separate from the connector . In such an implementation the housing is configured so that it can be snapped onto the media segment or the connector with the storage device interface positioned relative to the connector so that the storage device interface will properly mate with the media interface when the connector is inserted into or otherwise attached to the front attachment point . Although in the exemplary embodiment shown in only the front media segments include storage devices it is to be understood that in other embodiments connector assemblies and or other devices are configured to read storage devices that are attached to or otherwise included with rear media segments and or any auxiliary media segments for example media segments coupled to the network interface .

In some implementations at least some of the information stored in the storage device can be updated in the field for example by having an associated programmable processor cause additional information to be written to the storage device or changing or deleting information that was previously stored in the storage device . For example in some implementations some of the information stored in the storage device cannot be changed in the field for example identifier information or manufacturing information while some of the other information stored in the storage device can be changed in the field for example testing media quality or performance information . In other implementations none of the information stored in the storage device can be updated in the field.

Also the storage device may also include a processor or micro controller in addition to storage for the media information. In which case the micro controller included in the storage device can be used to execute software or firmware that for example controls one or more LEDs attached to the storage device . In another example the micro controller executes software or firmware that performs an integrity test on the front media segment for example by performing a capacitance or impedance test on the sheathing or insulator that surrounds the front physical communication media segment which may include a metallic foil or metallic filler for such purposes . In the event that a problem with the integrity of the front media segment is detected the micro controller can communicate that fact to the programmable processor associated with the port using the storage device interface . The micro controller can also be used for other functions.

The port connector storage device and media interface are configured so that the information stored in the storage device can be read without affecting the communication signals that pass through the media segments and .

Further details regarding system and the port can be found in the following United States patent applications all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 624 Application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK is also referred to here as the 497 Application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 501 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled INTER NETWORKING DEVICES FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 501 Application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 506 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR USE WITH PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION also referred to here as the 506 Application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 514 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY DEVICES SYSTEMS AND METHODS also referred to here as the 514 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 395 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 208 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS also referred to here as the 964 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 386 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled FIBER PLUGS AND ADAPTERS FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY the 961 Application and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled BLADED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM the 948 Application .

Each plug also comprises or is attached to a storage device for example an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or other non volatile memory device . The media information described above for the patch cord is stored in the storage device . The storage device includes sufficient storage capacity to store such information. Each storage device also includes a storage device interface that when the corresponding plug is inserted into a front connector of a port communicatively couples the storage device to the corresponding media interface so that the programmable processor in the corresponding patch panel can read the information stored in the storage device .

Examples of such a patch cord and plug are described in the 395 Application the 208 Application and the 964 Application.

Each LC connector also comprises or is attached to a storage device for example an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or other non volatile memory device . The media information described above for the patch cord is stored in the storage device . The storage device includes sufficient storage capacity to store such information. Each storage device also includes a storage device interface that when the corresponding LC connector is inserted into a front connector of a port communicatively couples the storage device to the corresponding media interface so that the programmable processor in the corresponding fiber patch panel can read the information stored in the storage device .

In some implementations of the patch cords and the storage devices and are implemented using a surface mount EEPROM or other non volatile memory device. In such implementations the storage device interfaces and media interfaces each comprise four leads a power lead a ground lead a data lead and an extra lead that is reserved for future use. In one such implementation an EEPROM that supports a serial protocol is used where the serial protocol is used for communicating over the signal data lead. The four leads of the storage device interfaces come into electrical contact with four corresponding leads of the media interface when the corresponding plug or connector is inserted in the corresponding front connector of a port . Each storage device interface and media interface are arranged and configured so that they do not interfere with data communicated over the patch cord. In other embodiments other types of interfaces are used. For example in one such alternative embodiment a two line interface is used with a simple charge pump. In other embodiments additional lines are provided for example for potential future applications .

Examples of such fiber patch cords and connectors are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS THEREOF also referred to here as the 386 Application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled FIBER PLUGS AND ADAPTERS FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY the 961 Application and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled BLADED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM the 948 Application . The 386 Application the 961 Application and the 948 Application are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In some implementations of the patch cords and each plug or connector itself houses the respective storage device and storage device interface. In implementations each storage device and corresponding storage device interface are housed within a housing that is separate from the corresponding plug or connector. In such implementations the housing is configured so that it can be snapped onto or otherwise attached to the cable or the plug or connector with the storage device interface positioned relative to the plug or connector so that the storage device interface will properly mate with the relevant media interface when the plug or connector is inserted into the front connector of the corresponding port.

Moreover functionality described here as being implemented in software executing on a programmable processor can be implemented in other ways. For example such functionality can be implemented in hardware using discrete hardware application specific integrated circuits ASICS programmable devices such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or complex programmable logic devices CPLDs and or combinations of one or more of the foregoing and or combinations of one or more of the foregoing along with software executing on one or more programmable processors. For example the detection of the insertion of a connector into a port of a connector assembly and or the reading of information from any storage device attached to the connector can be implemented in hardware for example using one or more programmable devices and or an ASIC in addition to or instead of being implemented as software.

When a segment of physical communication media having a single communication path such as a copper wire is connected to a module or patch panel a communication path linking the segment of physical communication media and the module is known because there is a one to one relationship between the segment and the module. However some cables or physical communication media comprise multiple communication paths for example multiple wires or fibers that are bundled together referred to herein as a multipath cable . Typically a first end of a connectorized multipath cable has a single connector that connects all the fibers at once. In some multipath cables a second end of the cable has a plurality of connectors where each fiber or group of fibers has its own connector. However once one of the plurality of connectors is connected and creates a logical communication link with the module there is no indication of which fiber is used in that logical communication link also referred to herein as pathway . In other words when such a multipath cable is coupled to a module it is often unknown where exactly each fiber is connected.

In the embodiments of connector assemblies described above each front attachment point is associated with only a single rear attachment point and each rear attachment point is only associated with a single front attachment point . In other words there is a one to one relationship between each front attachment point and each rear attachment point and between each rear attachment point and each front attachment point . For example in connector assemblies that are used with twisted pair cables each front attachment point implemented using a RJ 45 jack for example is associated with a single a rear attachment point implemented using a punch down block for example and each rear attachment point is associated with a single front attachment point .

These one to one relationships exist even though each front attachment point is coupled to the rear attachment point using the eight lines four pairs that are within a twisted pair cable. In another example where a connector assembly is used with simplex optical fiber cables each front attachment point implemented using an LC connector for example is associated with a single rear attachment point also implemented using an LC connector for example and each rear attachment point is associated with a single front attachment point . In yet another example a connector assembly is used with duplex fiber optic cables where each fiber cable comprises two separate optical fibers where one of the fibers is commonly referred to as the TX fiber and the other is commonly referred to as the RX optical fiber . In such an example each duplex fiber is terminated with two LC connectors one connector for the TX fiber and the other connector for the RX fiber. These connectors are commonly packaged together in a duplex connector package also referred to as a duplex connector . That is attachment points of the connector assembly are used to connect a single duplex fiber optic cable to the connector assembly . In this example it is still the case that each front attachment point implemented using an LC connector for example is associated with a single a rear attachment point also implemented using an LC connector for example and each rear attachment point is associated with a single front attachment point .

However in some embodiments at least some of the attachment points of a connector assembly will be associated with more than one other attachment point of the connector assembly . One such exemplary embodiment is shown in . are block diagrams of one exemplary embodiment of a connector assembly that is configured to be used with multi fiber push on MPO connectors. In this exemplary embodiment each of the rear attachment points shown in is implemented using a respective MPO connector that is associated with a respective six front attachment points shown in . That is in the embodiment shown in there is not a one to one relationship between each rear attachment point and a single front attachment point and instead there is a one to six relationship between each rear attachment point and six front attachment points .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the connector assembly shown in makes use of a master slave configuration of the type described above in connection with configuration of . In this exemplary embodiment the connector assembly includes four MPO modules . In one implementation of such an embodiment the connector assembly is implemented as a shelf that includes the four MPO modules . The connector assembly includes a master programmable processor also referred to here as master processor and a network interface . The network interface is configured to communicatively couple the master processor to an IP network so that the master processor and one or more aggregation points not shown in can communicate with each other. Each of the four MPO modules includes a respective slave programmable processor also referred to here as a slave processor shown in . The master processor communicates with each of the slave processors over a backplane shown in . In one implementation of such an embodiment the four MPO modules are housed within a common chassis where the backplane is implemented within the common chassis. Also in one implementation of such an embodiment the master processor and the slave processors communicate with one another using a master slave protocol.

The master processor is configured to execute software or firmware also referred to here as master software that causes the master processor to carry out various functions described below. The master software comprises program instructions that are stored or otherwise embodied on an appropriate non transitory storage medium or media such as flash or other non volatile memory magnetic disc drives and or optical disc drives . At least a portion of the program instructions are read from the storage medium by the master processor for execution thereby. The storage medium on or in which the program instructions are embodied is also referred to here as a program product . Although the storage medium is shown in as being included in and local to the connector assembly it is to be understood that remote storage media for example storage media that are accessible over a network or communication link and or removable media can also be used. Each connector assembly also includes suitable memory not shown that is coupled to the master processor for storing program instructions and data.

The connector assembly also includes a storage device in which information about the connector assembly is stored. The storage device can be combined with the storage medium used to store the master software .

The master processor and the master software executing thereon is configured to carry out the master processor functionality described above in connection with the master slave configuration shown in . For example the master processor and the master software executing thereon is configured to interact with the IP network and one or more aggregation points . The master processor also interacts with and controls the slave processors .

Each slave processor shown in is configured to execute software or firmware also referred to here as slave software that causes the slave processor to carry out various functions described below. The slave software comprises program instructions that are stored or otherwise embodied on an appropriate non transitory storage medium or media such as flash or other non volatile memory magnetic disc drives and or optical disc drives . At least a portion of the program instructions are read from the storage medium by the slave processor for execution thereby. The storage medium on or in which the program instructions are embodied is also referred to here as a program product . Although the storage medium is shown in as being included in and local to a respective one of the MPO modules it is to be understood that the storage medium can be combined with storage medium used by the master processor and or remote storage media for example storage media that are accessible over a network or communication link and or removable media can be used. Each MPO module also includes suitable memory not shown that is coupled to the slave processor for storing program instructions and data.

Each slave processor and the slave software executing thereon is configured to carry out the slave processor functionality described above in connection with the master slave configuration shown in . For example the slave processor and the slave software executing thereon is configured to determine if an optical cable is attached to each of the rear and front attachment points and shown in included in the associated MPO module and if one is to read any information stored in or on the attached optical cable if the optical cable includes information stored therein or thereon using a respective media interface shown in .

As noted above the connector assembly and the MPO modules shown in are configured to be used with MPO connectors. In particular the exemplary embodiment shown in is described here as being implemented for use with MPO connectors that are used to terminate six separate optical fibers. In this embodiment the rear attachment points are implemented using MPO connectors. The rear attachment points are also referred to here in the context of as MPO connectors . Each MPO connector of each MPO module is configured to connect to a respective MPO connector attached to one end of a trunk cable . The trunk cable includes six optical fibers . The MPO connector attached to the trunk cable is used to terminate all six of those optical fibers in the trunk cable at the MPO module . Each MPO connector included in the MPO module includes six internal attachment points each of which is used to terminate a respective one of the optical fibers in the trunk cable . Each such internal attachment point is internal in the sense that each internal attachment point is within that is is internal to one of the MPO connectors .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in each front attachment point is implemented using an LC connector. The front attachment points are also referred to here in the context of as LC connectors . Each LC connector of each MPO module is configured to connect to a respective LC connector attached to one end of a fiber optic cable . Each fiber optic cable includes a single optical fiber .

Each MPO module includes internal optical connections . Each internal optical connection is used to optically couple one of the LC connectors to one of the internal attachment points within one of the MPO connectors . In this way each optical fiber in the trunk cable that is attached to an MPO connector of an MPO module can be optically coupled to a corresponding optical fiber in an fiber optic cable that is attached to a corresponding LC connector of that MPO module .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in each MPO module includes four MPO connectors twenty four LC connectors and twenty four internal attachment points . Also in each of the attachment points is separately referenced using a number from 1 to 52 wherein the LC connectors that is the front attachment points are numbered through the MPO connectors that is the rear attachment points are numbered through and the internal attachment points are numbered through . Also in the example shown in there are twenty four internal optical connections which are individually numbered in as through .

Each MPO connector and LC connector of each MPO module has a respective media interface via which the slave processor is able to determine if an optical cable is attached to that connector and if one is to read information from any storage device attached to the optical cable. The slave processor in each MPO module is communicatively coupled to each of the media interfaces using a suitable bus or other interconnect not shown .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in each MPO module also includes a storage device in which information about the MPO module is stored. The storage device can be combined with the storage medium used to store the slave software . As noted above each slave processor communicates the information read from the storage devices and to the master processor over the backplane .

The information stored in the storage device includes information that identifies the MPO module as well as information that identifies the associations between the MPO connectors the LC connectors the internal attachment points and the internal optical connections .

For example in the exemplary embodiment shown in MPO connector is associated with internal attachment points through MPO connector is associated with internal attachment points through MPO connector is associated with internal attachment points through and MPO connector is associated with internal attachment points through . Also in this example each of the internal attachments points through is associated with a respective one of the LC connectors through .

In this example the internal optical connections through are associated with LC connectors through respectively as well as internal attachment points through respectively and MPO connector . The internal optical connections through are associated with LC connectors through respectively as well as internal attachment points through respectively and MPO connector . The internal optical connections through are associated with LC connectors through respectively as well as internal attachment points through respectively and MPO connector . The internal optical connections through are associated with LC connectors through respectively as well as internal attachment points through respectively and MPO connector .

Multiple separate communication paths can be formed from each MPO connector through the MPO module . For example when an MPO connector attached to trunk cable is inserted into MPO connector of the MPO module one communication path is formed by coupling one of the optical fibers in the trunk cable to internal attachment point . Internal attachment point is coupled to internal optical connection which is coupled to LC connector . An LC connector attached to a fiber optic cable can be connected to LC connector in order to couple the single optical fiber within that fiber optic cable to the internal connection . In this way a communication path is formed through the MPO module between the optical fiber in the trunk cable and the optical fiber in the fiber optic cable . In the example shown in twenty four such communication paths can be formed where six separate communication paths can be formed for each MPO connector of the MPO module .

As shown in each association comprises an association type and two associate identifiers . In this example there are two association types . One of the association types is an automatic type that refers to an association that can be automatically discovered by the aggregation point or other entity in the system. In this example the second association type is a manual type that refers to an association that has been manually supplied to the aggregation point or other entity in the system.

Each associate identifier is constructed as follows. The particular connector that is being identified by each associate identifier is also referred to here as the identified connector . The first part of the associate identifier is a logical device identifier that identifies a logical device of which the corresponding communication path is a part. A logical device refers to a connector assembly or other device that includes one or more attachment points or an assembly or other grouping thereof. A logical device can refer to a physical connector assembly or other device a physical assembly or other grouping of connector assemblies or other devices or a logical grouping of connector assemblies or other devices or assemblies or other groupings thereof. In this way the aggregation point and the other entities that make use of the data aggregated by the aggregation point can track connector assemblies and other devices in ways that are meaningful or convenient to users of the system. In this example each logical device is assigned a logical device identifier that uniquely identifies that particular logical device within the particular system of interest.

The next parts of each associate identifier are a module number that identifies the particular MPO module of which the identified connector is a part and a logical port number that identifies a particular one of the connectors located within the identified module . In this exemplary embodiment each MPO connector is referred to as a single logical port even though it is associated with multiple LC connectors . Also in this exemplary embodiment each MPO module is assigned a module number that is locally unique within the context of the respective logical device the MPO shelf of in this example . Furthermore each MPO connector and LC connector is assigned a logical port number that is locally unique within the context of the respective MPO module .

The next part of each associate identifier is a path index . The path index identifies which internal attachment point and internal optical connection are used to form the identified communication path. In this exemplary embodiment each path index is locally unique within the context of the respective MPO module .

The next part of each associate identifier is an associate type that identifies whether the identified connector is a rear attachment point an MPO connector in this example or a front attachment point an LC connector in this example .

The final part of each associate identifier is a port group that identifies the type of port identified by that associate identifier . In this exemplary embodiment each logical port can be included in one of the following three groups a standard port that refers to a logical port that is used to make a connection with a single logical communication channel a trunk port that refers to a logical port that is used to a make a connection with multiple logical communications channels and an auxiliary port that refers to a management port that is used to couple that device to the aggregation point if a separate port is provided for that purpose. In this exemplary embodiment the LC connectors are included in the standard port group the MPO connectors are included in the trunk port group and the network interface of MPO shelf shown in is included in the auxiliary port group.

In this example one association is used to describe the communication path that is formed between MPO connector and LC connector of . In this example all of the associations are of the automatic type that is they can be automatically discovered by the aggregation point or other entity in the system . As a result the association has an association type of AUTOMATIC . Association associates an associate identifier for MPO connector of with an associate identifier for LC connector of in order to identify the communication path formed therebetween. In this example the connector assembly shown in is its own logical device and has the logical device identifier of MPOSHELF1 . Also in this example the MPO module for this set of associations has a module identifier of 55555 . Therefore the associate identifier for MPO connector has a logical device identifier of MPOSHELF1 and a module identifier that has a value of 55555 .

In this example the logical ports of the MPO module are numbered from 1 to 28 as shown in . Thus the associate identifier for MPO connector has a logical port number of 25 . The associate identifier for MPO connector also has a path index of 1 which corresponds to the internal attachment point of the MPO connector and the corresponding internal optical connection of that are used to form the communication path between MPO connector and LC connector . The associate identifier for MPO connector also has an associate type of REAR since MPO connector is a rear attachment point in the example shown in . The associate identifier for MPO connector has a port group of TRUNK since it refers to a logical port that is used to a make a connection with multiple logical communications channels.

In this example the associate identifier for LC connector has a logical device identifier of MPOSHELF1 and a module identifier that has a value of 55555 .

The associate identifier for LC connector has a logical port number of 1 . The associate identifier for LC connector also has a path index of 1 which corresponds to internal optical connection of that is coupled between the MPO connector and the LC connector . The associate identifier for LC connector also has an associate type of FRONT since LC connector is a front attachment point in the example shown in . The associate identifier for LC connector has a port group of STANDARD since it refers to a logical port that is used to make a connection with a single logical communication channel.

Therefore association which includes associate identifiers and identifies the communication path shown in that is formed between the internal attachment point of MPO connector and LC connector of the MPO module .

As shown in the set of associations includes an appropriate association for each of the twenty four communication paths in the MPO module shown in . For example as shown in association describes a communication path through the MPO module of from the MPO connector to LC connector . For the reason noted above the association has an association type of AUTOMATIC . In association the MPO connector is identified by associate identifier and the LC connector is identified by associate identifier .

Similarly association describes a communication path through the MPO module of from the MPO connector to LC connector . For the reason noted above the association has an association type of AUTOMATIC . In association the MPO connector is identified by associate identifier and the LC connector is identified by associate identifier .

Information indicative of the set of associations for and therefore the communication paths through the MPO module are stored in the storage device in the MPO module and or the storage device in the MPO shelf .

In one example implementation the set of associations for the communication paths through the MPO module can be directly stored in the storage device of the MPO module . In another example implementation the set of associations is stored in a compressed form. That is in such an implementation the aggregation point infers the set of associations from information that is read from the storage device in the MPO module and or the storage device in the MPO shelf . In such an implementation the logical device identifier can be read from the storage device in the MPO shelf and the module number can be read from the storage device in the MPO module . Also in such an implementation the configuration of the MPO connectors and LC connectors can be inferred from other data that is read from the storage device of the MPO module for example data that specifies the number and type of MPO modules the number and type of LC modules the number of LC modules that are associated with each MPO module if it is not otherwise inferable from the type of MPO connector and a numbering scheme for the logical ports and path indexes .

As described in more detail below in connection with the slave processor associated with the MPO module reads this information and communicates it to the aggregation point .

In this example each logical port is identified by an association. As with the example described above in connection with each association is formed between two associates where each associate identifies a particular attachment point either an MPO connector or an LC connector . Each logical port is also given a logical port identifier that is the same as the identifier that is assigned to the front attachment point associated with that logical port.

Each associate is identified using an associate identifier that is constructed as follows. The first part of the associate identifier is an attachment point identifier that identifies the particular attachment point within the MPO module that is being identified by that associate identifier . In this particular example the attachment point identifier is used to identify either an MPO connector or an LC connector . Furthermore in this example each MPO connector and LC connector is assigned an attachment point identifier that is locally unique within the context of the respective MPO module for example by consecutively numbering the connectors as shown in .

The next part of each associate identifier is an attachment point type that identifies whether the identified attachment point is a rear attachment point an MPO connector in this example or a front attachment point an LC connector in this example . The final part of each associate identifier is a path index . The path index identifies which internal optical connection is coupled to the identified attachment point.

The port map includes an association for each of the twenty four logical ports and associated communication paths of the MPO module shown in . In the example shown in the port map includes an association for logical port . Logical port is associated with LC connector and MPO connector . Thus association associates MPO connector identified by an associate identifier with LC connector identified by associate identifier . In this example the associate identifier for MPO connector has an attachment point identifier that has a value of 25 which corresponds to MPO connector of . The associate identifier also has an attachment point type of REAR which indicates that the MPO connector is a rear attachment point for the MPO module . The associate identifier also has a path index that has a value of 1 corresponding to internal optical connection of .

The associate identifier for LC connector has an attachment point identifier that has a value of 1 which corresponds to LC connector of . The associate identifier also has an attachment point type of FRONT which indicates that the LC connector is a front attachment point for the MPO module . The associate identifier also has a path index that has a value of 1 corresponding to internal optical connection of .

The port map includes appropriate associations for each of the twenty four logical ports and associated communication paths of the MPO module shown in . For example as shown in the port map includes an association for logical port which is associated with LC connector and MPO connector . Association associates MPO connector identified by associate identifier with LC connector identified by associate identifier . Similarly the port map includes an association for logical port which is associated with LC connector and MPO connector . Association associates MPO connector identified by associate identifier with LC connector identified by associate identifier .

The port map is stored in the storage device along with a module identifier for the particular module . Likewise a logical device identifier for the particular MPO shelf is stored in the storage device included in the MPO shelf . As described in more detail below in connection with the slave processor associated with each MPO module reads the port map and module identifier and communicates it to the aggregation point and the master processor reads the logical device identifier and communicates to the aggregation point .

Each logical port and communication path associated therewith can be uniquely addressed in a manner that is unique within the context of the system of which the MPO module is a part by appending to the respective logical port number a logical device identifier and an module identifier of the type described above in connection with . For example logical port of the MPO module shown in which is associated with LC connector can be addressed by appending to the logical port number the logical device identifier assigned to the MPO shelf of the logical device identifier of MPOSHELF1 in this example and the module identifier assigned to MPO module the module identifier of 55555 in this example . In this way a different port map does not need to be generated for each MPO module that is manufactured and instead the same port map can be used for a particular model of MPO module.

One advantage of the scheme described in connection with is that a technician or other person who is near the front of the MPO module can identify a particular logical port by identifying the appropriate LC connector . The number or other identifier assigned to each LC connector can be printed on the fascia of the MPO module near that LC connector . As noted above this number or other identifier is used as the port identifier for the logical port that is associated with that LC connector . Also the logical device identifier assigned to the corresponding MPO shelf can be printed on the MPO shelf and the module identifier assigned to that MPO module can be printed on the MPO module . As a result the technician is able to identify a particular logical port by identifying the logical port identifier for the LC connector the module identifier for the MPO module and the logical device identifier for the MPO shelf printed on the MPO module and the MPO shelf .

Method comprises reading from a storage device associated with the connector assembly first information indicative of a plurality of communication paths formed within the connector assembly between the first attachment points and the second attachment points of the connector assembly block . In one example where the set of associations shown in are directly stored in the storage device in the MPO module the slave software executing on the slave processor associated with the MPO module reads the set of associations from the storage device . In another example where information indicative of the set of associations shown in is stored in the storage device of the MPO shelf and the storage device of the MPO module in compressed form the master software executing on the master processor of the MPO shelf reads among other things the logical device identifier assigned to the MPO shelf and the slave software executing on the slave processor associated with the MPO module reads from the storage device for example data that specifies the number and type of MPO modules the number and type of LC modules the number of LC modules that are associated with each MPO module if it is not otherwise inferable from the type of MPO connector and a numbering scheme for the logical ports and path indexes and or a port map of the type described above in connection with . This reading can be done when the MPO shelf and or MPO module more specifically the master processor and or slave processor are first powered on periodically after initial power on and or in response to a request from another device such as a master processor or aggregation point .

Method further comprises reading information stored on or in physical communication media that is attached to the connector assembly block . More specifically in the context of the MPO module shown in when an MPO connector attached to one end of a trunk cable is attached to one of the MPO connectors the software executing on the slave processor learns of that fact and uses the corresponding media interface to read the information stored in the storage device associated with that MPO connector . Likewise when an LC connector attached to one end of fiber optic cable is inserted into one of the LC connectors of the MPO module the software executing on the slave processor learns of that fact and uses the corresponding media interface to read the information stored in the storage device associated with that LC connector .

Method further comprises communicating information read from the storage devices to an aggregation point that is communicatively coupled to the connector assembly block . More specifically in the context of the MPO module shown in the software executing on the slave processor in or otherwise associated with the MPO module communicates the information it has read from the storage device to the master processor over the backplane . Also the software executing on the slave processor in or otherwise associated with the MPO module communicates the information it has read from any storage device associated with an MPO or LC connector or to the master processor over the backplane . The software executing on the master processor is configured to send at least some of this information to the aggregation point over the network to which the MPO module is connected via the network interface . In some examples the master software also sends information it has read from the storage device included in the MPO shelf to the aggregation point .

Method further comprises providing at least some of the information stored at the aggregation point to at least one other device block . More specifically in the context of the embodiment shown in application layer functionality executing on a computer shown in that is communicatively coupled to the aggregation point via the network can use the API provided by the aggregation point to retrieve at least some of the information that was read from the storage devices and .

Method further comprises walking a communication path within a connector assembly using at least some of the information read from the storage device associated with the connector assembly block . More specifically in the context of the embodiment shown in the application layer functionality executing on the computer shown in can use the set of associations that describe the communication paths through the MPO module in order to walk that communication path. As used herein walking a communication path refers to tracing and identifying the individual segments of physical communication media connectors and other attachment points that make up a given communication path. Walking a communication path can be done in connection with analyzing that communication path for example in connection with validating or troubleshooting the communication path .

The particular embodiments described above in connection with are merely exemplary. The techniques described here can be used with other types of connector assemblies and connectors. For example although the embodiment described above with described in connection with simplex LC connectors where each logical port comprises a single LC connector it is to be understood that the techniques described here can be used in connector assemblies that make use of duplex LC connectors where each logical port comprises two LC connectors.

Similar techniques can be used to track communications paths that are formed within cables or other segments of physical communication media collectively referred to as cables in the following description . One such example is shown in . is an exemplary embodiment of a fiber cable that includes multiple communication paths . In the embodiment shown in the fiber cable includes 6 communication paths . Each communication path is implemented using a respective optical fiber. The fiber cable includes a single MPO connector at one end that terminates a respective end of all of the optical fibers. The fiber cable also includes 6 LC connectors at the other end of the fiber cable . Each LC connector terminates the other end of a respective one of the optical fibers.

As noted above each connector is used to terminate at one end one or more communication paths and the associated optical fibers that are used to implement such communication paths each connector that is used to terminate the other end of each such communication path and the associated optical fiber is also referred to here as an opposite connector. That is all six of the LC connectors are the opposite connectors for the MPO connector . Likewise the MPO connector is the opposite connector for each of the LC connectors .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the MPO connector includes a storage device and each LC connector includes a respective storage device . The storage devices and are used to store information about the fiber cable and the MPO connector and the LC connectors that are a part thereof . The storage devices and and the connectors and are configured so that a respective media interface is able to read data from and or write data to the storage devices and when the associated connector or is inserted into an appropriate port.

Also in the exemplary embodiment shown in the cable includes one or more ties or clips to hold the various optical fibers together along at least a portion of its length. In other embodiments the optical fibers are held together in other ways or not at all.

The communication paths in the fiber cable can be tracked using the exemplary scheme described below in connection with .

The connector data includes a cable identifier that identifies the particular fiber cable of which the identified connector is a part. In this example each fiber cable is assigned a cable identifier that uniquely identifies that particular cable within the particular system of interest.

The connector data also includes a connector identifier that identifies the particular identified connector associated with the storage device or in which that instance of the connector data is stored. The connector identifier in this example can either be an identifier that is locally unique only with respect to the particular fiber cable of which the identified connector is a part or be identifier that is globally unique within the particular system of interest.

The connector data also includes one or more connector identifiers that identify the one or more opposite connectors associated with that particular identified connector. These connector identifiers are also referred to here as the opposite connector identifiers . In this example the same identifier scheme used for the connector identifier is also used for the opposite connector identifiers .

As shown in the connector data for the MPO connector of the fiber cable includes a cable identifier of 123456789 and a connector identifier of 1 . The connector data also includes six opposite connector identifiers one having a value of 2 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 2 one having a value of 3 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 3 one having a value of 4 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 4 one having a value of 5 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 5 one having a value of 6 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 6 and one having a value of 7 corresponding to the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 7 .

The connector data for the LC connector assigned the connector identifier of 2 includes a cable identifier of 123456789 and a connector identifier of 2 . The connector data also includes one opposite connector identifier having a value of 1 which corresponds to the MPO connector . Similar connector data is provided for the other LC connectors .

When each of the connectors and is inserted into a port of a connector assembly or other device the connector data stored in the associated storage device or is read and communicated to an aggregation point or other entity in the system. The aggregation point or other entity is able to infer the communication paths through the fiber cable using the connector data read from the storage devices and since the connector data identifies both the identifier connector as well as the associated one or more opposite connectors for each connector and . Alternatively an explicit port map could be stored in and read from one or more of the storage devices or .

Although an MPO LC connector fiber cable is shown in it is to be understood that the scheme described above in connection with can be used with any type of cable or segment of physical communication media including for example copper media simplex cables duplex cables and other types of break out cables including for example MPO LC fiber cables that include multiple MPO connectors as wells as multiple LC connectors .

Further details embodiments and implementations can be found in the following United States patent applications all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 964 filed on Oct. 19 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 253 208 filed on Oct. 20 2009 titled ELECTRICAL PLUG FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 907 724 filed on Oct. 19 2010 titled MANAGED ELECTRICAL CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 948 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled PANEL INCLUDING BLADE FEATURE FOR MANAGED CONNECTIVITY U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 844 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 439 693 filed on Feb. 4 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 730 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 737 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 743 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 750 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled COMMUNICATIONS BLADED PANEL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 303 961 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled Fiber Plug And Adapter For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 828 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 437 504 filed on Jan. 28 2011 titled Fiber Plugs And Adapters For Managed Connectivity U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 784 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 788 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 797 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 025 841 filed on Feb. 11 2011 titled Managed Fiber Connectivity Systems U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 413 856 filed on Nov. 15 2010 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 466 696 filed on Mar. 23 2011 titled CABLE MANAGEMENT IN RACK SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 395 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 689 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 386 filed on Oct. 16 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 658 filed on Oct. 15 2010 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY IN FIBER OPTIC SYSTEMS .

A number of embodiments of the invention defined by the following claims have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

