---

title: Printer search and selection for a cloud-based print service
abstract: The embodiments provide a print server including at least one processor, and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions executable by the at least one processor. The instructions are configured to implement an application manager configured to receive a print request over a network from an application associated with a device, and a printer searcher configured to determine printer search criteria associated with the print request, search a plurality of available printers associated with a user account of a user of the application based on the determined printer search criteria, and determine a subset of available printers based on the search. The application manager is configured to provide, over the network, a print dialog to the user of the application in response to the print request, where the print dialog may be configured to provide a list of the subset of available printers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854669&OS=08854669&RS=08854669
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08854669
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 567 616 filed on Dec. 6 2011. The disclosure of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 567 616 is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A cloud printing system may provide users with an ability to print content from virtually any application or device using any cloud aware printer. In other words the cloud printing system may provide an ability for virtually any application running on any device within a network to communicate with a cloud print service to thereby print to any printer that is also in communication with the cloud print service. In one example in the context of cloud printing an application may send a print request over a network to the cloud print server for printing a document using the cloud print service. In return the cloud print server may provide a print dialog including a number of available cloud printers as well as printing options associated with each available cloud aware printer. The cloud aware printers may include all the printers that are associated with a user account of the user and all publically available printers. As such the number of available printers may be relatively large. Conventionally the user may have to review the entire printer list and options in order to determine which printer and printing options are best suited for the print job. However this conventional method is time consuming and does not assist the user in selecting the best printer and printing options for the print job.

The embodiments provide a print server including at least one processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions executable by the at least one processor. The instructions are configured to implement an application manager configured to receive a print request over a network from an application associated with a device and a printer searcher configured to determine printer search criteria associated with the print request search a plurality of available printers associated with a user account of a user of the application based on the determined printer search criteria and determine a subset of available printers based on the search. The application manager is configured to provide over the network a print dialog to the user of the application in response to the print request where the print dialog may be configured to provide a list of the subset of available printers.

The print request may include attribute information indicating a type of document subject to the print request and the printer searcher may be configured to determine the printer search criteria based on the attribute information.

The printer search criteria may include at least one of a desired printer location printing option and printing cost. The printer searcher may be configured to determine the printer search criteria based on information associated with the user account. The printer searcher may be configured to determine the printer search criteria based on previous print job information.

The print server may further include a database configured to store a plurality of printer characteristics and associate the plurality of printers with the plurality of printer characteristics where the printer searcher may be configured to search the database using the determined search criteria as a search term.

The printer searcher configured to determine the subset of available printers may include selecting available printers achieving or approximately achieving the determined printer search criteria.

The printer searcher may be configured to rank the subset of available printers based on a level of achieving the printer search criteria and at least one of previous print job information and printer characteristic information and the print dialog may include the list of the subset of available printers according to the rank.

The printer characteristic information may include printer location information indicating a location of each available printer printer quality information indicating a quality of each available printer and or printer availability information indicating an availability of each of the plurality of printers.

The printer searcher may be configured to determine a subset of printing options among a plurality of printing options based on the determined print search criteria and the print dialog may include the subset of printing options.

The printer searcher may be configured to rank a plurality of printing options based on the print search criteria and at least one of previous print job information and printer characteristic information and the print dialog may be configured to provide the plurality of printing options according to the rank.

The print dialog may include a search box permitting the user to enter at least one search term associated with the printing request. The printer searcher may be configured to re search the plurality of available printers and re determine the subset of available printers using the at least one search term as the printer search criteria.

The print server may further include an environmental criterion database configured to store printing options in conjunction with weighted values where each weighted value may correspond to a relative environmental impact of a corresponding printing option. The printer searcher may be configured to determine an environmental level associated with the print request where the environmental level may indicate a degree of environmental impact. The printer searcher may be further configured to select environmental printing options based on the weighted values in order to achieve the determined environmental level.

The printer searcher may be configured to determine the environmental level based on the user account. The environmental level may be one of a plurality of default environmental levels and each default environmental level may indicate a different degree of environmental impact. The degree of environmental impact associated with the environmental level may be a desired total value and the printer searcher may be configured to select the environmental printing options in order to achieve the desired total value. Each weighted value may be information indicating a numerical value and the numerical value may increase as the relative environmental impact of a corresponding printing option increases.

The embodiments also provide a method of searching printers in a cloud printing system performed by one or more processors. The method may include receiving a print request over a network from an application associated with a device determining printer search criteria associated with the print request searching a plurality of available printers associated with a user account of a user of the application based on the determined printer search criteria determining a subset of available printers based on the search and providing over the network a print dialog to the user of the application in response to the print request where the print dialog may be configured to provide a list of the subset of available printers.

The print request may include attribute information indicating a type of document subject to the print request and the determining printer search criteria associated with the print request may include determining the printer search criteria based on the attribute information. The printer search criteria may include at least one of a desired printer location printing option and printing cost.

The determining the printer search criteria associated with print request may include determining the printer search criteria based on information associated with the user account. The determining the printer search criteria associated with the print request may include determining the printer search criteria based on previous print job information. The determining the subset of available printers based on the search may include selecting available printers achieving or approximately achieving the determined printer search criteria.

The embodiments also provide a non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to search printers in a cloud printing system. The instructions comprising instructions to receive a print request over a network from an application associated with a device determine printer search criteria associated with the print request search a plurality of available printers associated with a user account of a user of the application based on the determined printer search criteria determine a subset of available printers based on the search and provide over the network a print dialog to the user of the application in response to the print request where the print dialog may be configured to provide a list of the subset of available printers.

In a device is illustrated as an example of virtually any computing device from which a user may wish to execute a print job. By way of non limiting example then the device may include a laptop or desktop computer a netbook a tablet computer a smartphone a camera or any device which may store or have access to data which the user may desire to print.

In the example of an operating system is illustrated as executing an application . Again these elements are included by way of illustration and example and may include virtually any operating system or other platform on which virtually any application may run. For example the operating system may include operating systems such as the Windows operating system Mac OS or Linux and may include mobile platforms such as Android Symbian or iPhone OS to name a few examples. In other examples the operating system may include a browser based operating system such as the Chrome OS.

Consequently the application may include virtually any application which may run on any underlying operating system or platform. Examples of such applications are well known and too numerous to mention in any detail but generally include document processing applications email applications image editing or presentation software a web browser or virtually any application which provides the user with a rendering of data which the user may wish to print.

In particular as referenced above the application may represent a web application which executes on a remote application server as application . That is the application may include any application functionality which is accessed by the user over the network and experienced locally as the application e.g. using a browser running at the device . As is known such web applications allow an owner of the application server to assume responsibility for installing configuring executing and maintaining the application at the application server so that the user of the device may obtain the benefit of the application without many or any of the associated costs and responsibilities. Techniques for executing such a web application and related technology are well known in the art and are therefore not described further in detail herein except as may be helpful or necessary to understand operations of the system of .

The network may thus represent for example the public Internet or other wide area public or private network. The network may represent in further examples a corporate or other intranet and or a smaller scale local or personal network any of which may be implemented using standard network technology.

Further in a cloud aware printer is illustrated which is configured to communicate with the cloud print service over the network . In this regard the term cloud or cloud aware references the use of cloud computing which generally speaking includes a style of computing in which computing resources such as application programs and file storage are remotely provided over a network such as the Internet typically through a web browser. For example many web browsers are capable of running applications which can themselves be application programming interfaces API s to more sophisticated applications running on remote servers. In the cloud computing paradigm a web browser interfaces with and controls an application program that is running on a remote server. Through the browser the user can create edit save and delete files on the remote server via the remote application program. Thus it may be observed that the application server and associated application may also represent examples of cloud computing.

In the context of the cloud aware printer the cloud print service enables the application to print directly to the cloud aware printer without a requirement or need for e.g. independently of involvement of the operating system . In other words the application may communicate directly with the cloud print service to thereby print to the cloud aware printer without e.g. requiring a local driver within the operating system . As a result virtually any application that may be configured to communicate with the cloud print service may make use of the cloud aware printer as described in detail below.

For example the cloud print service may be configured to register the user and or the device as well as the cloud aware printer . In a specific example the device may be a smartphone and the user may use the application to purchase a ticket e.g. a movie ticket or an airline ticket . Then the user may print the purchased ticket directly to the cloud aware printer even though the device and or the operating system may not have the resources or otherwise be configured to support native printing in a conventional sense e.g. may not currently be executing a print driver of any sort associated with the cloud aware printer . In this way the user of the application may be provided with a print option and associated abilities that are not currently provided in conventional printing paradigms and techniques. Many other such examples are described herein or would be apparent.

The cloud aware printer may be contrasted with a legacy printer which does not natively support communication with the cloud print service . Therefore to illustrate additional or alternative examples of implementations of the system of a separate device is illustrated which as described below may be modified to impart the advantages of the cloud print service to the legacy printer . Similarly a router may additionally or alternatively be modified to thereby enable the legacy printer to participate in the cloud printing paradigm defined by the operations of the cloud print service as described in detail below.

In short the system provides an ability for virtually any application running on any device within the network e.g. the applications and devices to communicate with the cloud print service to thereby print to any printer which is also in direct or indirect communication with the cloud print service . Consequently users may benefit from increased printing options and abilities and experience an overall decrease in the costs and efforts associated with doing so. Meanwhile printer manufacturers may experience a decreased or eliminated need to provide users with the updated driver s and other prerequisites for users to fully experience the benefits of their products. This may result in for example higher customer satisfaction and a decreased cost of producing and maintaining printers.

As referenced above the system may provide a number of enhanced features and functions related to printer searching and selection. For example the application may provide a print dialog in conjunction with the cloud print service . The print dialog may include a search box and a printer list identifying a number of printers including the cloud aware printer the legacy printer as well as any other available cloud aware printer that is associated with a user account e.g. the registered printers . The print dialog may include one or more printing options corresponding to each of the printers in the printer list and a print button to generate a print job.

The cloud print service may search rank and select one or more available printers among the plurality of registered printers that are better suited for the print job and or the user s preferences based on the user s location and or preferences previous print job history attributes of the document subject to the print request e.g. whether the document is an image document or text document printer characteristics information such as the location quality availability and characteristics of the printers and or other information available to the cloud print service . In other words according some aspects of the example embodiments instead of providing the entire list of the registered printers associated with the user account in the printer list the cloud print service returns via the print dialog a subset of available printers that are better suited for the print job and or the user in the printer list . Similarly the cloud print service may search rank and select one or more printing options that are better suited for the user and or the print job. Typically a user may have a relatively excessive number of printing options e.g. may have access to a large number of printers each of which may have different characteristics e.g. location price timeliness printing options . As such the cloud print service may search rank and select a subset of printing options that are better suited for the print job and or the user based the user s location and or preferences previous print job history the attributes of the document subject to the print request and or other information available to the cloud print service . As shown in the print dialog may be configured to provide the printing options in the printing options list

As shown in the search box with which the user may search from among and ultimately select between such available printers and or printing options. Based on search criteria entered using the search box the printer list may be provided which includes the corresponding printer search results and the printing options which includes the corresponding printing options search results. The user may ultimately select a desired printer and printing options and thus proceed with printing using the print button . In example implementations the search box may be a single box into which the user may enter search terms for desired printing functionality. For example the user may enter a zip code a desired range of paper sizes and a desired cost per sheet. In other example embodiments the search box may represent a plurality of techniques for receiving printer search criteria. For example the print dialog may include a number of selectable options for desired printer characteristics. Then the user may enter printer search criteria simply by selecting desired printing features.

Further according to another embodiment instead of providing the entire list of available printers and default printing options or user defined printing options in the print dialog as further explained below the cloud print service may search and select a subset of environmental printing options among the universe of printing options so as to modify the default printing options in order to achieve a desired environmental level e.g. the most green printing options and provides the selected environmental printing options in the printing options of the print dialog . Also the cloud print service may search and select a subset of available environmental printers including the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer that have the environmental printing options and may provide the selected environmental printers in the printer list of the print dialog .

For example the cloud print service may assist the user in selecting a subset of environmental printing options and a subset of available environmental printers to be used for a particular print job in order to achieve a certain environmental level. In other words instead of the user independently searching the printing options associated with each of the printers associated with the user account and selecting a printer and printing options in order to make the print job more environmentally aware the cloud print service may search and select the appropriate subset of printers and printing options according to the environmental level set by the user.

The environmental printing options may relate to certain characteristics of the printers themselves such as the amount of power consumed by a respective printer or whether the printer utilizes recycled paper for example. In addition the environmental printing options may not necessary be related to printing characteristics for a respective printer but also include options that relate to how the printing job is performed such as whether the operator of a respective printer uses green energy resources and or any other type of option that may be considered good for the environment relative to the user.

Further the user may have the ability to determine the environmental level for the environmental printing. For instance the user may be able to select among a plurality of default environmental levels provided by the cloud print service . For example the user may be provided with an option of selecting between an environmental level that is considered most green an environmental level that is considered least green and any other level or levels between the most green environmental level and the least green environmental level. The environmental level indicates a degree of environmental impact that the printing job may have on the environment. For instance the most green environmental level may be characterized as having the least environmental impact because the most environmental printing options are selected. As such the user may select one of the default environmental levels to be used for selecting the environmental printing options.

Also the user may have the ability to define an environmental level e.g. a user defined environmental level. For example in defining the environmental level the user may choose which printing options are to be used for environmental printing. For instance the user may prefer to utilize certain environmental printing options for each printing request. Also the user may choose which printing options are given more weight than others for selecting environmental printing options. In one example the user may consider the use of recycled paper relatively important for the environment and the amount of power consumed by the printer relatively not as important as the recycled paper option. According to the example embodiments for creating the user defined environmental level the user may be able to assign more weight to the recycled paper aspect than the printer power aspect. As such the cloud print service may select the appropriate printing options based on the weights which may be adjusted by the user.

Referring to the cloud print server may include a number of example components or modules which may be utilized to implement functionalities of the cloud print service and in particular may be utilized to implement the printer searching capabilities and or various environmental aspects described herein. In more detail the cloud print service includes a registration manager which may be configured to register printers and users. As shown then a printer manager may be configured to receive a registration of the cloud aware printer and or the legacy printer including storing identification information therefore within a data store of registered printers. Similarly a user manager may be configured to register a user s who may currently or potentially wish to execute print jobs using the cloud print service and to store identification information for such users within a data store of registered users.

There are many example scenarios and techniques by which users and or printers may come to be registered with the cloud print service through the registration manager . In general for example a user of the device may use a browser to visit a website associated with the cloud print service and may enter a username password combination to establish a user account with the print service.

In other examples such users already may have a user account with a separate and possibly related service or service provider. For example various online services e.g. other cloud based computing resources may provide functionality such as email data storage and document processing and in such cases a user already may have a secure user account established in connection therewith. In such cases the cloud print service may leverage or access such existing user accounts e.g. to avoid a need to create a new user account and to facilitate access of existing users of other services with the cloud print service.

Consequently it may be appreciated that although the user manager and registered users database are illustrated as being within the cloud print service it also may occur that related functionality exists externally to the cloud print service and is accessed thereby. For example the application server may provide an email application as the application and a user of the device may be registered with this email application service . In such a case the application server may have the responsibility of maintaining the user s account and the cloud print service may simply interface with the application server and provide access to the user once the user is logged into the application .

Techniques for registering users maintaining user accounts and maintaining security of users accounts are well known in the art and are not necessarily described here in detail except as may be necessary or helpful to understand operations of the system or related systems. Meanwhile the printer manager as referenced above is responsible for registering the cloud aware printer the legacy printer and or any printer which may interface with the cloud print service and which may currently or potentially be accessed by a user of the cloud print service.

Further the registration manager may register users with environmental printing. In one example the registration manager may be configured to render environmental registration information to the user via the application in order to allow the user to register with environmental printing. For example the environmental registration information may include information that permits the user to select or determine a particular environmental level to be used for environmental printing. The environmental registration information may be render via the print dialog or a separate registration screen. For example the print dialog may include an option to register for environmental printing. Upon selection of the environmental printing option the environmental registration information may include information that permits the user to select or determine a particular environmental level. In addition the print dialog may include an environmental printing option and when the user selects the environmental printing option the default environmental level is selected. Alternatively the user may register with environmental printing at a time of registering with the cloud print service with a new or existing user account or may register with environmental printing at any time after the user registers with the cloud print service e.g. providing environmental registration information under a managing printers option.

The environmental registration information may provide for a selection among the plurality of default environmental levels. For example the user may be provided with an option of selecting between the environmental level that is considered most green the environmental level that is considered least green and any other level or levels between the most green environmental level and least green environmental level. However the example embodiments encompass any type and number of environmental levels.

Also the registration manager may provide environmental registration information that allows the user to customize the environmental level. For example as explained above the user may want to select certain environmental printing options or assign more weight to a printing option to be used for the cloud printing job. The registration manager may store the selected or defined environment level in the user account of the data store of registered users.

An application manager may be configured to communicate with any application which may be desired to be used for printing within the system including e.g. the application and the application . Thus for example the application manager may implement various application programming interfaces APIs which enable such communication with external applications.

In general the application manager may include the functions of receiving a print request and then receiving an actual print job from e.g. the application . In general the first function of receiving a print request may include providing the user of the application directly or indirectly with a print dialog or other user interface with which the user may select an available associated registered printer. Receiving the print job may include receiving print data to be printed along with print characteristics characterizing preferences and other aspects of how the print data is desired to be printed e.g. color vs. black and white paper size orientation number of copies or any other relevant or desired print characteristic . The application manager may conduct other communications with the application as well such as e.g. providing a status of a printer or print job. The application manager may communicate with the application or other application in a format that is independent of a specific printer e.g. that is generic with respect to all available or relevant printers within the system .

In the application is illustrated as including the print dialog which as referenced above may be provided to the user of the device in order to receive a print request therefrom. The cloud print service may determine the subset of available printers and printing options as well as environmental friendly printers and or printing options among the registered printers in response to the print request e.g. when the user initially receives the print dialog . In addition the cloud print service may render the list of available printers and then utilize the search terms provided by the user in the search box to further refine the list of printers.

In example implementations the printer searcher may be implemented at the cloud print service which receives or otherwise determines printer search criteria e.g. specified through the user of the search box as just referenced and which executes a search of available printer characteristics . For example the printer characteristics may be understood to represent various aspects of available printers which represent a universe of possible printers which might be used by the user for a current print job. As described herein or as would be apparent such characteristics may be specific to a given printer or may be specific to the user account of the user in question. In other example implementations as described above the printer searcher determines the printer search criteria without utilizing the search box . For example the printer searcher may determine the search criteria at or around a time when the application manager receives the print request via a suitable API. In this example the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria using at least one of the attribute information previous print job information the user s location and or preferences printer characteristics information such as the location quality availability and characteristics of the registered printers or any other information available to the cloud print service . Then the printer searcher may search and select a subset of available printers achieving or approximately achieving the determined printer search criteria and present the subset of available printers in the printer list of the print dialog in response to the print request. Thereafter the user may utilize the search box to further refine the subset of available printers or search the entire list of registered or otherwise available printers .

Also the printer searcher may rank the registered printers based on at least one of the attribute information previous print job information the user s location and or preferences printer characteristics information such as the location quality availability and characteristics of each printer or any other information available to the cloud print service . The print dialog may be configured to provide the ranked list of registered printers or determined subset in the printer list

In addition the printer searcher is configured to rank the printing options using the attribute information previous print job information the user s location and or preferences printer characteristics information such as the location quality availability and characteristics of each printer or any other information available to the cloud print service . The print dialog may be configured to provide the subset of printing options according to the rank in the printing options list . The provided subset of printing options may be populated by the cloud print service so that the user does not have to independently select the determined printing options. The user may have the option of de selecting the chosen printing options and select other printing options associated with a respective printer.

Furthermore if the user enters additional search terms in the search box the printer searcher may be configured to re search re select and re rank the plurality of registered printers or the determined subset as well as the printing options. In one example the user may over time utilize a number of available printers. Then the printer searcher may return a list of n most recently used printers. From among this list the user may filter for a desired subset. For example when the user initially receives the print dialog the printer searcher may automatically determine a default number n of most recently used printers from registered printers associated with the user account of the user where such information may be updated in the context of the printer characteristics and may provide this list within the printer list . Then the user may utilize the search box to filter this list to obtain a revised subset of the available printers. For example where the printers are provided with names the user may begin typing a desired name e.g. home printer or home printer into the search box . Then the printer searcher may gradually filter non conforming printer names until only a single printer remains for selection or until the user selects a printer. Furthermore the user may enter any type of search term associated with a printing request. For example the user may enter search terms associated with a desired printer location printing option and or printing cost.

In additional or alternative implementations the printer characteristics may include many other examples. For example the printer characteristics may include a physical location of each printer. As shown in the cloud aware printer is at a first location . Meanwhile the legacy printer is illustrated as being located at a second location . Consequently upon receipt of the print request from the application the printer searcher may determine a location of the user device as part of printer search criteria received with the print request and may compare this location with the locations to determine a preferable e.g. closer location. For example the user may enter his or her location using the search box or may enter a preferred location e.g. a zip code where the user wishes to print. In addition the printer searcher may obtain the user location from the user account stored in the registered user s database or from a suitable GPS system associated with the application . As such the printer searcher provides the initial list of the printers in the printer list as including the available printers having a location that is relatively close to the user s location. Further the list of printers in the printer list may be ranked according to the distance away from the user s location and or previous print job information.

As indicated above the printer characteristics may include printer specific features and functions. For example the printer characteristics may describe whether a given printer has color printing high speed printing two sided printing large paper size printing or various other known or future printing capabilities. Furthermore the printer characteristics may include printer availability information indicating an available of each of the printers location information indicating a location of each of the printers and previous print job information indicating the printing characteristics for previous print jobs. Also it is noted that the job history information may be stored in the job storage . The previous print jobs and associated information such as the location the user s preferences printer availability and printer characteristics may be categorized characterized and ranked in a method similar to the way web pages are indexed.

In other examples as referenced above the registered printers may include publically available printers which may not at least initially be registered with the user account of the user but which may be available for cost or fee based printing. Then the printer searcher may search such printers perhaps in conjunction with a location or other characteristics thereof in order to provide the printer list

The printer searcher may execute one or more search algorithms and related techniques. For example the printer searcher may include or be associated with a search index not explicitly illustrated in which facilitates rapid location of a desired subset of available printers and or printing options. Then one or more search algorithms may be used to leverage the search index. For example the printer characteristics may include a rank as previously described above representing e.g. a frequency of use of a given printer by the user or other users and or a printer rating given to a given printer by the user or previous users.

In the example of for the sake of clarity and explanation the printer searcher and the printer characteristics are illustrated as separate components. However it may be appreciated that the components may be implemented in whole or in part in the context of a related component s . For example the printer manager may be configured to implement the printer searcher and the printer characteristics may be stored in conjunction with the registered printers .

Also with respect to the environmental aspect of the embodiments the printer searcher may be configured to determine the environmental level associated with the print request. For example the printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on the registered users database . For example the printer searcher may communicate with the registered users database in order to determine the environmental level which has been selected by the user during the registration process. Alternatively the printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on the environmental level information included in the print request.

Then the printer searcher may be configured to select environmental printing options from the printing options such that one or more selectable printing options are changed using an environmental criterion database in order to achieve the determined environmental level. For example the environmental criterion database may be configured to store printing options in conjunction with weighted values. Each weighted value corresponds to a relative environmental impact of a corresponding printing option. Further the environmental criterion database may be configured to associate a plurality of printers associated with the user account with the corresponding printing options. As such the printer searcher may be configured to search and select the appropriate environmental printing options among the plurality of printing options stored in the environmental criterion database . Also although the environmental criterion database and the printer characteristics database are illustrated as separated databases the embodiments encompass any number of databases including one database for storing the types of information described herein.

The parameter N may be any integer greater or equal to one. However in reality the printing options may be relatively large. Further although illustrates three printers e.g. Printer A Printer B and Printer C the example embodiments encompass any number of printers to be used for cloud printing. As explained above the printing options may include any type of printing options that may be associated with a printer such as printer specific characteristics or printing options related to the printing job itself. The printer specific characteristics may include location information indicating a location of the printer. As shown in each printing option may correspond to a weighted value which may indicate a numerical value. The numerical value increases as the relative environmental impact of a corresponding printing option increases. Also the weighted value may be any other type of value that may indicate a measurement. In one explanatory example the printing option 1 may be double sided printing which has a numerical value of 50 whereas printing option 2 may be printing with a resolution of 300 dpi which has a numerical value of 10. The numerical value of 50 indicates that a higher importance of environmental impact relative to the user is associated with the double sided printing than the printing option of 300 dpi resolution which has a numerical value of 10.

Each weighed value associated with a corresponding printing option in the environmental criterion database may be initially preset. However the user may adjust one or more weighted values depending on the user s preference. For example the user may want to assign a relatively higher importance to the type of resolution utilized during the printing job. As such during the registration process the environmental registration information provided by the registration manager may include information that allows the user to adjust the weighted values corresponding to the printing options. As such the registration manager may adjust the weighted values stored in the environmental criterion database . Alternatively the print dialog may include information that allows the user to adjust the weighted values associated with the printing options. As such the application manager receives the information provided from the user via the print request where the printer searcher may adjust the appropriate weighted values in the environmental criterion database

In terms of weighted values the degree of environmental impact associated with the environmental level may be characterized as a desired total value. For example if the user has selected the most green environment level the desired total value may be higher than an environmental level below the most green environmental level. The printer searcher may be configured to search and select the printing options in the environmental criterion database using the assigned weighted values such that the total desired value of the environmental level is achieved. In one example the printer searcher may be configured to select the printing options such that their corresponding weighted values are summed to achieve or approximately achieve the total desired value of the environmental level. However the printer searcher may be configured to utilize any type of algorithm to search and select the printing options in the environmental criterion database in order to achieve a desired level.

Also the printer searcher may be configured to select at least one available printer among the plurality of printers based on the selected printing options in order to achieve the determined environmental level. For example the printer searcher may communicate with the environmental criterion database in order to make such a determination. The environmental criterion database may associate the plurality of printing options associated with each printer. After the printing options are selected by the printer searcher the printer searcher may determine which printers among the available printers associated with the user account of the user have these selected options.

The application manager may be configured to provide the selected environmental printing options and selected printers to the user in the print dialog . The environmental printing options may be pre populated in the print dialog . For example the application manager may provide the print dialog having the environmental printing options which are already preselected. Then the user may review the preselected environmental printing options and determine whether such printing options are in fact desired.

Referring back to because various types of printers have a wide variety of printing options which may describe the same printing options in a number of different formats the cloud print service may also include an options translator in order to provide the display of the printing options in a uniform manner. For example the options translator is configured to determine one or more printing options associated with the registered printers and translate a native printer display format of the printing options to a common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . The native printer display format for a particular printing option may be the display format provided by the individual vendor of the printer. However multiple display formats may exist for the same printing option. As such the cloud print server may translate the native printer display format of the printing options into the common protocol display format. The common protocol display format may be a display format that is uniform across all cloud aware printers.

The printing options that are understood by the cloud print service and translated into the common protocol display format may be considered semantically supported and may be referred to as semantic printing options. The cloud print service may semantically support any number and type of printing options such as page resolution duplex printing e.g. long side short side page range page orientation size type of paper options for color rendering staples or no staples split sheet capability option for bypass tray to put cards cover inserter color brightness page order being forward or reverse lines per inch in the document being a range from 300 to 1800 and more specifically 300 600 1200 and 1800 lines per inch job fonts glossy adjust and gradation smoothing for quality of printing ink separation screening parameters for quality of printing color matching folding binding collating booklet making slip sheet drilling and trimming for job finishing. These options constitute broad capabilities for printing such as job layout job definition job quality job content job description job color job imposition and job finishing.

In one example the options translator may determine the printing options from capability files that may be stored with the printer characteristics . The printer characteristics may include any type of characteristic associated with the registered printers such as capabilities e.g. in a form of a capability file features and any other type of attribute associated with the printer. The capability files may include information created by vendors to describe the entire set of features and capabilities available for a particular printer. Based on the capability files the options translator may determine a set of printing options for the registered printers in response to receipt of the print request and may translate the native printer display format of the printing options associated with the registered printers into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may disregard the native print display format of the printing options provided in the capability files and select the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service from a translation database

The translation database may store the common protocol display format associated with each capability. For example for each capability the translation database may store a corresponding common protocol display format which may be a common description for a particular printing option. In other words for a particular printing option e.g. page resolution the common protocol display format may be a display format for the printing option that is the same for each printer having the page resolution printing option. Therefore regardless of the vendor specific language description the printing options may be provided to the user in a uniform manner. In addition the translation database may provide a translation of the common protocol display format in a number of different languages.

Instead of using the native display format of the printing options the options translator may search the translation database for the capabilities and locate the corresponding common protocol display format for the appropriate printing options. In addition the options translator may determine the language associated with the user locate the capability names corresponding to the printing options in the translation database and provide the common protocol display format for the printing options in the determined language. For example the options translator may determine the language of the user based on the user s account from the database of registered users. Also the options translator may determine the language based on the internet protocol IP address associated with the print request. Further it is noted that the embodiments encompass any known mechanism that may identify a location of the user. Also although the translation database is illustrated as a separate database from the printer characteristics and the environmental criterion database the embodiments encompass any number of databases including one that may store the capabilities characteristics of the registered printers as well as the weighting information associated with the environmental aspects.

The common protocol display format may permit the printer searcher to search the number of different printers print options associated with the cloud print service in a reliable and consistent manner. In particular the cloud print service may leverage the common protocol display format of the printing options in order to more accurately search the number of available printers printing options associated with the cloud print service . For example the options translator may translate the native printer display format of the printing options for the printers meeting the print search criteria into the common protocol display format associated with the cloud print service .

After the user selects the desired printing options and printer the print job may be generated and forwarded to the cloud print service via the application manager . The print jobs received at the application manager may be passed to the format converter which may be configured to receive the print job and facilitate or execute conversion of the print job into a format associated with the designated type of printer for the print job in question. Such conversion may thus generally include as needed conversion of the print data itself as well as conversion of the print characteristics specified in conjunction with the given print job.

For example printers generally require low level device or type specific instructions which provide a basis by which printers actually apply ink to paper to achieve a desired appearance. Such instructions therefore may include very specific portrayal of the desired print outcome using e.g. a Page Description Language PDL . For example the language PostScript may be used to describe a desired print outcome and then rendered e.g. rasterized by a specific printer to generate printed text or images. Additionally fixed layout document formats exist which are designed to facilitate device independent printing while maintaining document fidelity. For example the portable document format .pdf is an example of such a format where .pdf documents may be generated using PostScript. Somewhat similarly the XML Paper Specification XPS provides such a fixed layout document format which is based on the eXtensible Markup Language XML .

Print data may be received from the application in virtually any format including e.g. Hypertext Markup Language HTML or in a format associated with document processing and or images e.g. .jpeg or in the PDF or XPS formats referenced above. The format converter may thus be configured to receive print data in these and other various formats and convert the print data into a format that is recognizable by a designated printer.

Similarly the format converter may be configured to convert the print characteristics associated with the print job into a format that is recognizable by the designated printer. That is as referenced above the print characteristics may include aspects of how the print data should or can be printed i.e. based on preferences of the user and or on capabilities or lack thereof of the designated printer s . For example the legacy printer may be a black and white printer with no two sided printing abilities while the cloud aware printer may be a color printer with two sided printing. The format converter may then provide conversion accordingly depending on a selected printer.

The format converter may provide and execute the resulting converted print job using e.g. a protocol referred to herein as a cloud print protocol CPP . Thus the cloud print protocol allows the cloud print service to communicate with the cloud aware printer or the legacy printer . Further detail and other aspects of the cloud print protocol are described in more detail below.

The converted print job may be stored in a data store illustrated as the job storage in . Although illustrated separately in for the sake of clarity and description it may be appreciated that the job storage may overlap or coincide with the data stores of the registration manager . That is for example print jobs of a given user may be stored in conjunction with the user account of the user and in conjunction with one or more printers registered to that user. As a result print jobs may be committed to long term storage so that for example users may locate identify and re print desired print jobs even if the user later accesses the cloud print service from a different device than was used to originally send a given print job.

Thus it may be observed that conversion of the print job at least partially occurs at a separate device s e.g. the cloud print server the cloud aware printer the device or the router from the device s on which the originating application is executing e.g. the device the application server or the device . In this way for example it is possible to formulate and submit a print job at least partially separately from a conversion of the print job into a printer specific format and to thereby divorce such conversion from an underlying operating system of the executing application.

A print job router may be configured to route the converted print job to a designated printer and otherwise monitor and mediate execution and success failure of the print job. The print job router may thus be responsible for managing and monitoring on going print jobs from a plurality of users which are designated for a corresponding plurality of printers as described in detail below.

In so doing the print job router may be configured to execute e.g. with a print client executing on firmware of the cloud aware printer . The print client may communicate with the cloud print service e.g. with the print job router and or the registration manager using the cloud print protocol referenced above.

More specifically the print client may be configured to register the cloud aware printer with the cloud print service and to thereby associate the thus registered printer with a user of the device . Moreover the print client may be configured to actually drive the cloud aware printer and thereby execute the desired printing.

In the example of the cloud aware printer is illustrated as including the print client within the firmware . The firmware as would be appreciated by one of skill in the art may represent factory installed hardware and or software which provides designated functions without generally requiring or allowing user modification or configuration e.g. may utilize read only memory . Thus the cloud aware printer may be pre configured from before a time of purchase to communicate and coordinate with the cloud print service to thereby provide a convenient and enjoyable user experience.

For example the cloud aware printer may include a network access manager user input and a display or other user output which may generally represent conventional components that are not described here in detail except as needed to assist in understanding the operation of the system . Of course the cloud aware printer also may include other conventional components which are not discussed here for the sake or clarity and conciseness.

The network access manager may represent associated hardware and or software which enables the cloud aware printer to communicate over the network with the cloud print service . For example such communication may be conducted wirelessly if the cloud aware printer is within range of an appropriate wireless network. In other examples the network access manager may enable a wired connection of the cloud aware printer to the network e.g. by way of connection to a router such as the router .

The user input may represent virtually any sort of keypad stylus or other techniques for entering data to the cloud aware printer . Similarly the display may represent virtually any sort of audio and or video display to output information to a user of the cloud aware printer .

In example scenarios then a user may purchase the cloud aware printer . Upon powering the cloud aware printer may automatically output or identify the cloud print service e.g. by printing a URL or other identifier on paper loaded in a paper tray of the cloud aware printer or by displaying such information using the display . Similarly the cloud aware printer may output registration information for itself e.g. a serial number or other unique identifier.

Then in one example scenario the purchaser may use the device or other network device to communicate with the cloud print service e.g. by using a browser to visit a website of the cloud print service provided by the cloud print server . The user purchaser may then log into his or her user account associated with the cloud print service and be prompted to enter the registration information for the cloud aware printer .

In other example implementations the user input and display may similarly be used to communicate directly with the cloud print service using the network access manager . For example upon powering the cloud aware printer may automatically connect to the cloud print service using the print client and the network access manager and then use the display to prompt the user purchaser to login to the cloud print service to thereby automatically associate the cloud aware printer as being registered to the user purchaser.

In contrast the legacy printer may not be manufactured to include the print client and or other components of the cloud aware printer . For example the legacy printer may have been manufactured prior to an availability of the cloud print service or simply may have been made without the necessary components to communicate with the cloud print service .

In such a case the legacy printer may be connected in a conventional way to the device e.g. by USB or other suitable wired or wireless connection . For example the device may include an operating system which may be used to host a print client which is conceptually similar to the print client and which serves as a proxy for the legacy printer to thereby allow the legacy printer to participate in the system .

In some implementations the print client proxy may communicate directly with the legacy printer to execute a print job from the cloud print service . In other implementations the operating system may have a conventional printer driver installed for the legacy printer in which case the system may leverage some or all of the functionality of the print driver to drive the legacy printer .

Thus in operation the print client proxy may be configured to register the legacy printer with the registration manager printer manager of the cloud print service in a similar manner s as described above and depending on a presence or absence of capabilities of the legacy printer e.g. whether the legacy printer includes network access user input and or display components .

Once registered an application which may desire to print to the legacy printer may communicate a print job to the cloud print service e.g. in the manner described above with respect to the application . As the legacy printer is thus incorporated and integrated into the system it may be appreciated that the application and or the application may thus print to the legacy printer as easily as to the cloud aware printer . For example a user of the device may use the application to execute a print job to the legacy printer even if the legacy printer is remote from the device over the network at the time of the printing.

Similarly a print client may be installed as a proxy component on the router as an addition or alternative to the print client to integrate the legacy printer into the system . The print client proxy may thus similarly allow for registration of the legacy printer with the cloud print service and with one or more users e.g. of the device and or the device and may accept print jobs from the cloud print service which are designated for the legacy printer .

Many features and advantages are provided by the system and variations thereof as referenced herein and or as would be apparent to one of skill in the art. For example as described the system facilitates remote printing in a straight forward and easily implementable fashion because a user need only log in to the cloud print service and register a printer using any device e.g. personal computer smartphone or other mobile device or a printer itself . Then the user can thereafter login to the cloud print service from any device anywhere on the network and send a print job to the thus registered printer from any compatible application even if the device and printer are remote from one another.

In other example implementations it is possible to share printers between different users. For example techniques currently exist for sharing documents in existing cloud based document processing management systems such as when a first user sends an email to a second user with a link to a document to be shared. With the system such techniques and concepts can be extended to the realm of printing. For example the first user may send a link referencing a printer to be shared e.g. referencing or including registration information for the printer so that the second receiving user may simply follow the link to associate the identified printer with the second user s cloud print service user account. In these and other scenarios users may e.g. print documents directly to a receiving user or print work documents to a home printer or vice versa and otherwise experience the benefits of remote printing.

In the example of a print request associated with a user account may be received . For example the application manager may receive the print request from the application where the user thereof may be signed in as a registered user with the registration manager .

Printer search criteria associated with the print request may be determined . For example the printer searcher may implicitly determine or derive such printer search criteria simply by virtue of receiving the print request. The print request may include attribute information indicating a type of document subject to the print request such as whether the document is an image document or a text document. Therefore in the case of an image document the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria as registered printers which have the capabilities of printing an image document. Also the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria as the user s location so that the printer searcher may search and select printers close to the user s location. Further the printer searcher may utilize the previous print job history where the printer searcher may determine n most recently used printers which have been used by the user having the user account. Still further the printer searcher may determine a current location of the user based on a GPS or other location based information associated with the user or with the device assuming the user has optionally granted permission for activation of this or related features . In additional or alternative examples the user may proactively enter desired printer search criteria in the search box such as a current location of the user a location of the desired printer capabilities or functions of the desired printer fees associated with the desired printing or other search criteria. Also the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria using a combination of any of the above described information as well as any other information available to the cloud print service .

Available printers may be searched based on the print search criteria and the user account . For example the printer searcher may consider the implicit and or explicit search criteria provided by the user and or the print dialog in conjunction with relevant potential printers and associated printer characteristics . As described various search algorithms and related techniques may be utilized to execute such a search.

A subset of available printers may be determined based on the search . For example the printer searcher may select a subset of available printers that achieve or approximately achieve the determined printer search criteria and provide the printer list including the determined subset for selection therefrom by the user.

As referenced above some or all of the operations may proceed in an iterative or looped fashion. For example the printer list may initially include an initial set of printer search results and the user may thereafter filter or otherwise refine this initial result set. For example as referenced above the user may begin typing a name of a desired printer or type of printer into the search box to filter an initial list of printers. In other examples the user may enter additional search criteria into the search box and the printer searcher may re execute some or all of the search using the refined search criteria.

As also shown an option for managing printers may be included. For example as described herein with respect to the printer manager the user may be enabled to update a list of registered printers to include new registered printers to be associated with the user account for example such as when registered printers are shared between users .

Such printer management functionality may include an ability of the user to update the printer characteristics associated with one or more specific printers. For example the user may if authorized be permitted to manually update or describe a location of a specific printer or other characteristics thereof. Then these printer characteristics may be used privately by the user for future printer searches. Or in other implementations such updates may be made publically available for printer searches by other users or classes of users.

Somewhat similarly the printer searcher may include or be associated with a printer monitor which may monitor or otherwise determine relevant printer characteristics. For example such a printer monitor may monitor current toner levels usage queues e.g. current wait times or other time varying characteristics of the printers so that such information may be used in providing the printer list

Thus by using the above and related features and functions the system may provide users with intelligent search and selection of available printers even if the user is not currently aware of a relative suitability or even existence of such printer s . In this way a user of the system may experience convenient cost effective and otherwise optimized printing.

According to some aspect of the example embodiments the printer searcher may select a subset of printing options among the universe of printing options to be provided in the print dialog . Referring to the list of printing options may indicate that double sided printing and a resolution of 600 dpi have been previously used by the user and then the printer searcher may select these printing options e.g. prepopulate the printing options as probable printing options to be considered by the user. Also it is envisioned that the print dialog may include a plurality of other printing options such as whether the user wishes to print the entire document or a subset thereof. Further the printing options may include other attributes of a respective printer such as the location of the printer as well as the cost associated with a particular print job if such printer is a publically available printer that charges a fee.

Further the print dialog includes the search box as previously described above. The user may enter any search term associated with a printing request such as the location cost of printing or particular printing options. In response to submitting such a search request the printer searcher may re search and re rank the plurality of registered printers and select the printer s and or printing options that achieve or approximately achieve the print search criteria. In addition the print dialog may include information indicating how the printer was selected. For example if the search term entered into the search box included a desired location the print dialog may update the printer list to include one or more printers having the desired location along with search result information. The search result information may be a representative portion of the searched database that caused the respective printer or printers to be selected. In the case of the search result being the desired location the search result information would be the location s of the selected printer s .

A print request may be received over the network . For example as described above the application manager may receive a print request from a user of the application executing on the device or of the application executing on the application server or of the application of the device . The print request may be received over the network using an API that is common to the application and the application manager . As explained above the print request may include attribute information indicating a type of document subject to the print request such as whether the document is an image document or a text document. Further the print request may include user preference information such as a desired printer location printing option and printing cost.

Printer search criteria may be determined . For example as previously described the printer searcher may implicitly or explicitly determined the print search criteria from information contained in the printing request itself such as the user s preferences and or attribute information of the document subject to the print request previous print job information user information from the user account of registered users the printer characteristics information such as the location quality availability and characteristics of each printer and or other information available to the cloud print service . One or more of these types of information may be stored in the printer characteristics database the registered printers database the registered users database and or the job storage . In one example the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria based on information associated with the user account. Generally the information associated with the user account may include any type of user preferences that the user has established with the account. Further the user account may store information related to characteristics of the user such as the user s location for example.

Also the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria based on previous print job information. For example the previous print job history may indicate which printing options were used in conjunction with which printers. Further the previous print job history may include other printer characteristics associated with previous used printers. The printer characteristics may encompass any type of printer characteristic associated with a respective printer. In one example if the attribute information indicates that the document subject to the print request is an image document and the previous print job history indicates a certain number of printers used by the user for printing image documents the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria as printers having the capabilities of printing image documents and have been used or recently used by the user. The printer searcher may make the determination of printer search criteria in response to the print request or in response to the user proactively entering search terms in the search box

Also the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria to include printing options in conjunction with the printers. In one example using the previous print job information the printer searcher may determine the printer search criteria as a number of recently used printing options. Still further the printer searcher may determine the print search criteria as the number of recently used printing options for image documents based on the previous print job information and the attribute information. Again the printer searcher may make the determination of printer search criteria in response to the print request or response to the user proactively entering the search terms in the search box

A plurality of available printers are searched and ranked . For example the printer searcher may search the registered printers in the relevant databases e.g. the print characteristics in order to determine which registered printers achieve or approximately achieve the print search criteria. As indicated above the printer searcher may execute one or more search algorithms and related techniques. For example the printer searcher may include or be associated with a search index not explicitly illustrated in which facilitates rapid location of a desired subset of printers. Then one or more search algorithms may be used to leverage the search index. Further the printer searcher may search and ultimately determine which registered printers meet the determined print search criteria as well as which registered printers are available. For example the printer searcher may search the available printers among the registered printers based on the availability information included in the printer characteristics . Further the printer searcher may be operable in conjunction with a print manager which monitors the availability of each of the registered printers via a suitable API in communication with a respective print client such as print clients or of . For instance based on information provided from a respective print client the printer searcher may determine that a certain registered printer is not currently available for printing.

Also the printer characteristics may include a rank representing e.g. a frequency of use of a given printer by the user or other users and or a printer rating given to a given printer by the user or previous users. Based on the print search criteria the printer searcher may re rank the plurality of printers. For example the printer searcher may be configured to rank the plurality of printers based on a level of achieving the printer search criteria and using at least one of the previous print job information and printer characteristic information such as the quality of the printer and or the location of the printer. The printer searcher may use any type of ranking technique known in the art. Also as indicated above the printer searcher may be configured to rank the plurality of printers based on user feedback information. For example the cloud print service may provide a mechanism to permit the user to rate or provide comments on the performance of a printer in the cloud print service . Based on the user s feedback information the printer searcher may determine a lower ranking if such feedback information is negative.

A plurality of printing options may be searched and ranked . Similar to the searching and ranking of the plurality of printers the printer searcher may search the printing options in the relevant databases in order to determine which printing options achieve or approximately achieve the print search criteria. As indicated above the printer characteristics may include a relatively large number of printer characteristics to be used as printing options. The printer searcher may search the printer characteristics using the determined printer search criteria as a search term. The printer searcher may operate in conjunction with the options translator in the common display format and provide the selected printing options in the common display format e.g. instead of the native display format . The printer searcher may execute one or more search algorithms and related techniques. Further the printer characteristics may include a rank representing e.g. a frequency of use of a given printing option by the user or other users. For example the printer searcher may be configured to rank the plurality of printing options in the printer characteristics based on the print search criteria and using the previous print job information. The previous print job information may indicate which printing options have been used for particular print jobs.

A subset of printers and printing options may be determined based on the search and the rank . For example the printer searcher may select a subset of available printers that achieve or approximately achieve the determined printer search criteria according to the rank. For example the printer searcher may select a number of available printers that achieve or approximately achieve the determined printer search criteria where the selected number is a certain number of top ranked printers. In addition the printer searcher may determine the printing options for each selected printer in the subset based on the printing options rankings e.g. choosing the top ranked printing options.

A print dialog may be provided over the network to the user in association with the application the print dialog configured to provide for a selection of the subset of available printers associated with the user account . For example the application manager may provide the print dialog to the user of the application in response to the print request. The print dialog includes the list of selected available printers and the list of selected printing options in the common display format. In the print dialog the printing options may be populated wherein the user has the option of selecting the populated printing options or de selecting the printing options. Further the user may have the ability to review and select other printing options that are not readily displayed by selecting an advance option menu button for example. The print dialog was previously illustrated with respect to .

The print dialog may also include the search box . As such a user may enter one or more search terms into the search box in order to further narrow the subset of printers or search the entire list of registered printers . In such a case the printer searcher receives the search criteria which have been entered into the search box by the user and the printer searcher may be configured to re search and re rank the available printers and or printing options and provide the updated search results on the print dialog . In addition the printer searcher may determine search result information that indicates a representative portion of the searched database e.g. the printer characteristics that caused the printer or printers to be selected. For example if the user enters a particular printer characteristic such as double sided printing search result information may be provided on the print dialog to include a representative portion of the searched database that caused the printers to be selected.

Furthermore the printer searcher may determine ranking information for each selected printer in the print dialog . For example the ranking information may include numerical or graphical information that reflects the ranking of the printer. Each printer in the list may be numbered such as 1 2 3 4 for example. Also each printer in the list may be associated with one or more symbols that indicate the relevancy of the search result e.g. 3 out of 4 stars .

A print job may be received via the print dialog which includes the selected printer from the selection as well as the selected printing options . For example the application manager may receive a selection of one of the plurality of registered printers which may include either the cloud aware printer or the legacy printer .

The print job including print data and print characteristics expressed in a first format. For example the application manager may receive the print job designating either of the printers . The print job as described may include both the actual print data to be printed as well as print characteristics specifying a manner in which the print data is to be printed relative to printer capabilities of the selected printer s . For example such print characteristics may include a designation of one sided versus two sided printing paper size paper tray color versus black and white and various other such well known print characteristics.

The print job including the print data and such print characteristics may be expressed in the first format as a printer independent format. That is the print job may be communicated to the application manager by way of an appropriate API and in a manner which is generic or agnostic with respect to the selected printer or to any printer. Consequently the application in question need not have any knowledge of the printer to be used even after the printer has been selected in order to transmit the print job.

The print job may be converted from the first format into a printer specific format associated with the selected printer . For example the format converter may be configured to convert the first e.g. printer independent format into a printer specific format for a selected one of the printers . As may be appreciated and as described herein the term printer specific in this context may include e.g. reference to a specific type category or brand of printer or to a uniquely identified printer. The print job in the printer specific format may include a full rasterization of the print job for use in printing by the selected printer e.g. when the selected printer includes the cloud aware printer or may include a partial conversion so that final rasterization may occur later e.g. at the print client proxy and or the print driver of the device as described herein .

The print job may then be stored in association with the user account of the user e.g. within the job storage . The print job may be stored in either the printer independent format as received from the application or in the printer format associated with the selected printer. In either case as referenced above such persistent storage of the print job in association with the user account allows for later location and printing of the same print job at a later date without having to re generate the document to be printed e.g. without having to visit a website at which a document was originally generated .

The print job may then be output to a corresponding print client . For example the print job router may output the converted print job to either of the printers or both depending on which was selected earlier. If the selected printer does not include a cloud aware printer e.g. includes a legacy printer then the print job may be received at the local print client and communicated to the local print driver e.g. may be received at the print client s and communicated to the print driver .

It may be appreciated that the burden of converting the print job from the printer independent format received from the application for actual printing at one of the printers may be shared to varying extents between the format converter and the various print clients . For example in one example using the cloud aware printer the format converter may provide essentially the entire process of determining printer commands for the cloud aware printer . In this case the print client may be used to receive the print job for forwarding to appropriate printer hardware e.g. processor s driving the associated ink dispensers . In such a case the cloud aware printer may be very inexpensive to manufacture with minimal hardware software requirements.

In other scenarios the format converter may execute a partial format conversion and the print clients may be more involved in calculating or otherwise determining actual low level printer commands. Such a practice may be suitable for example where a manufacturer of the printer in question has certain specific needs or requirements which are not readily compatible with the cloud print service or in other cases where the printer in question already has the processing capabilities to be responsible for a certain amount of the conversion process. In the latter case although such printers may be relatively more expensive due to supporting the associated hardware and software requirements associated with the conversion s it may make sense simply to leverage such existing resources if they do already exist rather than support them independently at the cloud print service . In particular the legacy printer may already have a relatively large amount of hardware software resources including the print driver so that it may make sense to perform a relatively small proportion of the format conversion process at the format converter while allowing the print client and the print driver to finalize and execute a final print job.

In either case the print job may proceed with execution during which the print job router having provided the print job may continue to maintain the print job status for provision to the application as needed. For example after execution of the print job begins a paper jam may occur at the legacy printer . Then the print job router may become aware of the paper jam through the print client and may thereafter output a notification to the application perhaps using the print dialog of the application manager .

Registration information is provided to the user in order to register with environmental printing . For example the registration manager may be configured to provide environmental register to the user via application in order to allow the user to register with environmental printing. The environmental registration information may be render via the print dialog or a separate registration screen.

In one aspect the environmental registration information may include information that permits the user to determine of a plurality of default environmental levels as described above. Further the environmental registration information includes information that permits the user to create a user defined environmental level. For example the environmental registration information includes information that permits the user to select an appropriate environmental level. For example as indicated above the degree of environmental impact associated with environmental level may be a desired total value. As such the environmental registration information includes information that allows the user to adjust the desired total value. For instance the environmental level may be associated with a level to level where level is associated with the most green environmental level. In the user defined environmental level the user may adjust the environmental level to any level of level to level . It is noted that levels are illustrated for the sake of explanation where the example embodiments encompass any number of environmental levels.

A selected environmental level among a plurality of default environmental levels or a user defined environmental level may be received from the user . For example the application manager may receive information indicating the selected environmental level or user defined environmental level along with the print request if such registration information is provided in the print dialog . Further the registration manager may receive information indicating that the selected environmental level if the registration information is provided in a separate registration screen. If such information is provided in a separate registration screen the registration manager may stored the selected environmental level in the registered users database .

An adjustment to the weighting of the environmental criterion database may be optionally received . For example during the registration process the registration manager via the separate registration screen or the application manager via the print dialog may provide information permitting the user to adjust the weighted values of the environmental criterion database . For example a user may wish to adjust the environmental impact of a corresponding printing option. In this case the user may believe a higher environmental impact is associated with printing with recycled paper for example. The adjustment information may include information permitting the user to adjust the weighed values using a low medium and high selection. The low selection being associated with a relatively low weighted value the high selection being associated with a relatively high weighed value e.g. higher than the low section and the medium selection being associated with a weighted value in between the high selection and the low selection. The registration screen or the print dialog may illustrate these selections and the user selects one of them. Also the adjustment information may include information indicating the actual values of the weighted values and the user may be permitted to adjust the numerical value associated with the weighted values. It is will appreciated that these examples are further description purposes only where the example embodiments encompass any type of information that permits the user to adjust the weighted values.

The received environmental level is associated with the user account and or the environmental criterion database is updated . For example the registration manager and or the application manager may associated the received environmental level with the registered users database . Further the registration manager and or the application manager may updated the environmental criterion database according to the user adjustment.

In the example of a print request from an application associated with a device may be received . For example the application manager may receive the print request from the application over the network where the user thereof may be signed in as a registered user with the registration manager . In a more specific example a user of the device may be using the application e.g. by reading an email or other document or by viewing an image within an image viewing application. Within the application the user may select a print option e.g. by using a generally conventional technique s such as selecting from within a drop down menu or selecting a printer icon displayed within the application. Such action may initiate or execute a communication between the application and the application manager so as to notify the application manager that a print job may be forthcoming.

In some examples the print request may include a number of printing options that may be default or user defined. Also the print request may include attribute information indicating a type of a document subject to the print request e.g. image document or text document information indicating that environmental printing is selected and or environmental level information indicating the environmental level the user wishes to utilize. Still further the print request may include a number of user preferences.

An environmental level associated with the print request may be determined . For example the printer searcher may determine the environmental level according to a number of different ways. In one example the printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on information associated with the user account. For example as explained above the user may register with environmental printing and select an environmental level among a plurality of default environmental levels where each environmental level is associated with a different degree of environmental impact. Further the user may create a user defined environmental level. The selected environmental level and or user defined environmental level may be stored in the registered users database . The printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on the environmental level stored in the registered users database .

Also the printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on environmental level information received with the print request. For example in submitting the printing request the user may have indicated a default environmental level or user defined environmental level. As such when the print request is received by the application manager the printer searcher determines the environmental level based on the print request.

Further the printer searcher may determine the environmental level based on information indicating that environmental printing is selected. For example in submitting the print request the user may have indicated that environmental printing is selected without necessarily identifying a desired environmental level. However the printer searcher may determine the environmental level as a default environmental level which has been predefined by the system .

Environmental printings options are selected using an environmental criterion database in order to achieve the determined environmental level . For example the printer searcher is configured to search and select environmental printing options from the printing options included in the environmental criterion database such that at least one of the default or user defined printing options is changed based on the weighted values in the environmental criterion database in order to achieve the determined environmental level. In one example the printer searcher is configured to search and select the printing options such that their corresponding weighted values are summed to achieve or approximately achieve the total desired value of the environmental level. However the printer searcher may be configured to utilize any type of algorithm to search and select the printing options in the environmental criterion database in order to achieve a desired level.

Furthermore if the printing request includes the attribute information the printer searcher may be configured to select and determine the printing options based on not only the weighted values but also the attribute information. For example if the attribute information indicates that the document subject to the print request is an image document a different set of printing options may be determined or selected in order to meet the environmental level. For example if such document is an image the user may want to print the document using color printings and single sided printing. As such the printer searcher may search and select the appropriate printing options taking into account the attribute information. Also the example embodiments are not limited to attribute information. Rather the printer searcher may be configured to account for any type of user preferences such as location. For example the user may not want to travel outside a particular area in order to take advantage of more environmental friendly settings. As such the printer searcher may be configured to account for the location registration in searching and selecting the appropriate environmental printing options so that the environmental level is achieved.

At least one available environmental printer is selected based on the environmental criterion database . Initially the application manager may communicate with a printer manager to determine which registered printers are associated with the user s account including any printers shared by the user by another user as well as any publically available printers that use the cloud print service . For example the application manager may determine that the user is associated with the cloud aware printer . Based on the status checks referenced above by the print job router it may be assume that the printer has been determined to be available for printing.

At least one environmental printer is selected based on the environmental criterion database . For example the printer searcher is configured to determine an available printer among the plurality of printers associated with the user account of the user based on the selected environmental printing options. For example the printer searcher communicates with the environmental criterion database in order to make such a determination. For example the environmental criterion database associates the plurality of printing options associated with each printer. After the printing options are selected by the printer searcher the printer searcher determines which printers among the available printers associated with the user account of the user have these selected options. However it is noted that the selection of the printer may be limited by the user preferences. For instance with the submission of the print request the user may have indicated a preferred location for printing. Also the preference of using a certain printer may be stored in the registered users database . As such the printer searcher may consult with the registered users database in order to determine whether there is any user preferences for cloud printing. Therefore printer searcher searches and selects one or more available printers based on the selected printing options and in accordance with the users preference.

A print dialog with a list of selected environmental printing options and selected at least one environmental printer is provided to the user . For example the application manager may provide such a print dialog either directly or indirectly.

In the example of the cloud print service is illustrated as including a print dialog API which is in communication with a tickler . The tickler may be operable to send notification s of new print jobs available for a given printer s .

Then upon authorization of a user by the print dialog API a list of printers associated printer capabilities and current jobs per printer and other status information may be provided to the application user e.g. by way of a common print dialog which may be rendered e.g. using Javascript. As already explained such a print dialog may in appearance resemble conventional print dialogs except as otherwise set forth herein e.g. may allow for selection of an available printer and associated print features . In an example of a non conventional aspect of the common print dialog the common print dialog may include a field s to allow a user to search and identify a previous stored print job that is persistently stored by the cloud print service .

The print dialog API may thus provide e.g. render the common print dialog essentially in its entirety for the application user and thereby provide a common print dialog experience across applications interfacing with the cloud print service . As also described the print dialog API also may simply provide sufficient information for an application developer to construct a third party dialog which may be different in appearance than the common print dialog e.g. may have a proprietary appearance associated with a suite of applications provided by the developer provider thereof.

Assuming authorization of the user proceeds the user may then provide printer selection s and associated desired print characteristics as well as the actual print data. The print data may be expressed in any conventional format e.g. HTML PDF XPS or an image format such as JPG to name a few.

The print job may then be received at a job submit API e.g. from either dialog . In some implementations the print data may be included by reference to remote print data e.g. by identification of an appropriate URL. Then an application data fetcher may be used to retrieve data to be printed.

The job submit API may receive the print job in to give a specific and non limiting example s a hyper text transfer protocol HTTP multi part request which may include the printer capabilities expressed e.g. in XPS as well as a MIME type identifying the content type. The job submit API may then provide the print job including the print data and print characteristics to a format converter . The format converter operates essentially as described herein with respect to the format converter of and stores the print job within storage .

A print client which may represent any of the print clients of communicates with a job control API and a job fetch API to execute the print job. Specifically the job fetch API may provide the print job to the print client e.g. may be used by the print client to fetch the next available job for the specified printer.

The job control API may be responsible for authorizing the print client as needed and for receiving updated status information from the printer in question such as whether the print job has completed or failed. Such status information may also be stored within the storage in associated with a corresponding print job. The job control API may include status information including e.g. whether a print job is currently queued and not yet downloaded to a corresponding print client or spooled downloaded and added to the client side native printer queue if applicable .

In further examples of the print client as the print client proxy it may occur that the proxy fetches print jobs in PDF format along with the user selected print characteristics represented as XML. Then the proxy may use a PDF interpreted library to rasterize and print the PDF.

Finally in a user printer register API is illustrated which is responsible for communicating with the print client to register the user s and all associated printers. Such registration information may be communicated using a HTTP multi part request and may include identification of the printer along with the printer capabilities e.g. expressed in XPS and may be stored in the storage with the various print jobs. Further such registration processes and information may occur previously to actual print job executions or interspersed therewith. In the latter case for example the user may seek to execute a print job only to find that all available printers are currently occupied jammed or offline. Nonetheless it would be a simple matter for the user then to register a new printer with the cloud print service and proceed accordingly with the newly registered printer to execute the desired print job.

Many other examples and variations of the systems and operations of would be apparent to one skilled in the art. For example instead of printing to a hardware printer the system s or similar systems may be used to print to PDF or other software format.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning system receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Thus various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

It will be appreciated that the above embodiments that have been described in particular detail are merely example or possible embodiments and that there are many other combinations additions or alternatives that may be included.

Also the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present features in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations may be used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

