---

title: Sleep state video interface of an information handling device
abstract: An apparatus for a sleep state video interface of an information handling device includes a storage device storing machine-readable code and a processor executing the machine-readable code. The apparatus includes a notification module receiving a sleep notification to place an information handling device into a sleep state. The information handling device receives a video signal. The apparatus includes a sleep module entering the information handling device into the sleep state in response to the notification module receiving the sleep notification. The video signal passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430023&OS=09430023&RS=09430023
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) PTE. LTD.
number: 09430023
owner_city: New Tech Park
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20120625
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to a video interface and more particularly relates a sleep state video interface of an information handling device.

The use of portable information handling devices such as smartphones and personal desktop assistants PDA s has proliferated and with it the capabilities of these portable information handling devices. For example a user may store and stream various kinds of content on the user s smartphone. Current portable information handling devices such as smartphones and tablet computers often have video output capabilities which allow them to connect to devices having video input such as monitors and televisions.

Often personal computers and laptops lack video input ports such as HDMI ports leaving a user without the option of displaying video from his or her mobile device. Furthermore even information handling devices that include some form of video input typically receive video input while operating at full power.

Based on the foregoing discussion the inventors have recognized a need for an apparatus system and method for a sleep state video interface of an information handling device. Beneficially such an apparatus system and method would place an information handling device into a sleep state while a video signal passes through the information handling device to a display.

The embodiments of the present subject matter have been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available information handling devices. Accordingly the embodiments have been developed to provide a method apparatus and system for a sleep state video interface of an information handling device.

An apparatus is provided with a storage device storing machine readable code a processor executing the machine readable code and a plurality of modules configured to functionally execute the steps for a sleep state video interface of an information handling device. These modules in at least a portion of the described embodiments include a notification module and a sleep module.

In one embodiment the notification module receives a sleep notification to place an information handling device into a sleep state. The information handling device in one embodiment receives a video signal. In one embodiment the sleep module enters the information handling device into the sleep state in response to the notification module receiving the sleep notification. In one embodiment the video signal passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state.

A method is also presented in the disclosed embodiments the method substantially includes the steps to carry out the functions presented above with respect to the operation of the described apparatus. In one embodiment the method includes receiving a sleep notification to place an information handling device into a sleep state. The information handling device in one embodiment receives a video signal. In one embodiment the method includes entering the information handling device into the sleep state in response to receiving the sleep notification. The video signal in one embodiment passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state.

A computer program product including a storage device storing machine readable code executed by a processor to perform operations is also presented. In one embodiment operations include receiving a sleep notification to place an information handling device into a sleep state. The information handling device in one embodiment receives a video signal. In one embodiment the operations include entering the information handling device into the sleep state in response to receiving the sleep notification. The video signal in one embodiment passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state.

References throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language do not imply that all of the features and advantages may be realized in any single embodiment. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic is included in at least one embodiment. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the embodiments may be embodied as a system method or program product. Accordingly embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a program product embodied in one or more storage devices storing machine readable code. The storage devices may be tangible non transitory and or non transmission.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in machine readable code and or software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of machine readable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of executable code which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of machine readable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. Where a module or portions of a module are implemented in software the software portions are stored on one or more storage devices.

Any combination of one or more machine readable medium may be utilized. The machine readable storage medium may be a machine readable signal medium or a storage device. The machine readable medium may be a storage device storing the machine readable code. The storage device may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared holographic micromechanical or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the storage device would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this file a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A machine readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with machine readable code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A machine readable signal medium may be any storage device that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Machine readable code embodied on a storage device may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable Radio Frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Machine readable code for carrying out operations for embodiments may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The machine readable code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of an embodiment.

Aspects of the embodiments are described below with reference to schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and program products according to embodiments. It will be understood that each block of the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams can be implemented by machine readable code. These machine readable code may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The machine readable code may also be stored in a storage device that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the storage device produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The machine readable code may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the program code which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatuses systems methods and program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions of the program code for implementing the specified logical function s .

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more blocks or portions thereof of the illustrated Figures.

Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flowchart and or block diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding embodiments. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the depicted embodiment. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted embodiment. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and machine readable code.

The processor memory the IO module the BIOS module the USB module the storage module the network module the PCIe module referred to herein as components may be fabricated of semiconductor gates on one or more semiconductor substrates. Each semiconductor substrate may be packaged in one or more semiconductor devices mounted on circuit cards. Connections between the components may be through semiconductor metal layers substrate to substrate wiring circuit card traces and or wires connecting the semiconductor devices.

The memory stores computer readable programs. The processor executes the computer readable programs as is well known to those skilled in the art. The computer readable programs may be tangibly stored in the storage module . The storage module may comprise at least one Solid State Device SSD . In addition the storage module may include a hard disk drive an optical storage device a holographic storage device a micromechanical storage device or the like.

The processor may include integrated cache to reduce the average time to access memory . The integrated cache may store copies of instructions and data from the most frequently used memory locations. The processor may communicate with the memory .

In addition the processor may communicate with the IO module . The IO module may support and communicate with the BIOS module the network module the PCIe module and the storage module .

The PCIe module may communicate with the IO module for transferring data or power to peripheral devices. The PCIe module may include a PCIe bus for attaching the peripheral devices. The PCIe bus can logically connect several peripheral devices over the same set of connections. The peripherals may be selected from a printer a scanner or the like. The PCIe module may also comprise an expansion card as is well known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment the PCIe module is in communication with a display. Specifically in one embodiment the PCIe module comprises a PCIe expansion card in communication with the display. In one embodiment the PCIe expansion card comprises a PCIe Mini Card. The display may be a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD monitor or the like.

The BIOS module may communicate instructions through the IO module to boot the information handling device so that computer readable software instructions stored on the storage module can load execute and assume control of the information handling device . The BIOS module may comprise a coded program embedded on a chipset that recognizes and controls various devices that make up the information handling device . The BIOS module may refer to various approaches to providing a firmware interface for booting an information handling device including traditional BIOS unified extensible firmware interface UEFI Open Firmware and others. The BIOS module in one embodiment includes a storage device that stores the relevant instructions for booting. The storage device may be a solid state storage device such as Flash memory. The BIOS module may be a solid state storage device with relevant code that is attached to a motherboard of the information handling device .

The network module may communicate with the IO module to allow the information handling device to communicate with other devices over a network. The devices may include routers bridges computers printers and the like. The USB module may communicate with one or more USB compatible devices over a USB bus.

Often personal computers and laptops lack video input ports leaving a user without the option of displaying video from another information handling device such as a mobile device. Furthermore even information handling devices that include some form of video input typically receive video input while operating at full power. Consequently in the depicted embodiment the first information handling device includes a video input e.g. a cable connection port and the second information handling device includes a video output. In one embodiment the first information handling device and the second information handling device are coupled with a video connection between the video output and video input. In one embodiment the video connection is a cable connection. In certain embodiments the video connection is a two way connection capable of transmitting data from the first information handling device to the second information handling device and from the second information handling device to the first information handling device . Consequently each information handling device in one embodiment may have both video input and video output capabilities.

The second information handling device may transmit a video signal over the video connection . A video signal in one embodiment includes digital video data and in certain embodiments may also include digital audio data. The second information handling device may transmit the video signal according to a digital video interface. In one embodiment the digital video interface is a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface the video connection is an HDMI connection and the video signal is an HDMI signal. In this embodiment the first and second information handling devices include HDMI ports for HDMI video input output. In one embodiment the digital video interface is a mobile high definition link MHL interface. In other embodiments the interface is a Digital Visual Interface DVI interface a Firewire interface or other suitable digital video interface. In one embodiment the second information handling device also includes and or is in communication with a display.

In one embodiment the second information handling device transmits the video signal and the first information handling device receives the video signal through the video connection . The first information handling device transmits conveys and or transfers the video signal to the display . The display may comprise one embodiment of the display described above in relation to . In one embodiment the display is separate from the first information handling device and is connected to the first information handling device by for example a cable connection. In another embodiment the display is part of and or integrated with the first information handling device . For example the display may be a laptop display a tablet display or the like.

In one embodiment the video interface apparatus enters the first information handling device into a sleep state and allows the video signal to pass through the information handling device while it is in the sleep state. As a result the first information handling device remains in a reduced power state while the video is displayed. The video interface apparatus may enter the first information handling device into the sleep state in response to various events such as a window of a user interface displaying the video on the first information handling device transitioning into a full screen mode in response to the first information handling device receiving the video signal and or the like.

The first information handling device and or the second information handling device may include memory a storage device storing computer readable programs and a processor that executes the computer readable programs as is known to those skilled in the art. The first and or second information handling devices may comprise embodiments of information handling device depicted in or comprise at least a portion of the components of the information handling device . In one embodiment the second information handling device is a portable or handheld device such as a personal desktop assistant PDA a tablet computer a slate computer an e Book reader a mobile phone a smartphone and the like. In one embodiment the first information handling device is a desktop computer a portable computer a tablet computer a laptop computer a server a mainframe computer and or the like.

In one embodiment all or a portion of the video interface apparatus comprises a computer readable program stored and executed by the first information handling device . In one embodiment the video interface apparatus includes an application executing on an operating system of the first information handling device and or is integrated with the operating system.

In one embodiment the active portion comprises an expansion card of the first information handling device . In one embodiment the expansion card is an mPCIe card and may comprise at least a portion of the PCIe module depicted above in . The active portion in one embodiment includes a video input that may be substantially similar to the video input described above in relation to the first information handling device . In the depicted embodiment the active portion includes a signal processing module . The second information handling device transmits the video signal to the signal processing module . The signal processing module may transmit and or convey audio data of the video signal to a speaker and may transmit and or convey video data of the video signal to the display . In one embodiment the signal processing module converts the video signal to a signal suitable for displaying by the display . For example in one embodiment the signal processing module converts an HDMI signal to a low voltage differential signal LVDS .

In one embodiment the second information handling device comprises a portable information handling device that transmits a video signal in a mobile high definition link MHL protocol. In this embodiment the signal processing module converts the MHL video signal from the second information handling device to HDMI.

In one embodiment the active portion maintains power while the first information handling device is in the sleep state. For example in one embodiment the active portion is an mPCIe expansion card that receives power from the host computer the first information handling device through a pin on the PCI e connector. In one embodiment when the first information handling device is asleep the voltages are still available to the expansion card. In one embodiment video processing of the signal processing module is independent of the first information handling device . The signal processing module in one embodiment continues processing the video signal while the first information handling device is in the sleep state. In one embodiment processing the video signal refers to receiving the video signal converting the video signal and or conveying the video signal to the display . In one embodiment the signal processing module comprises a portion of the video interface apparatus . In one embodiment at least a portion of the video interface apparatus is implemented on the active portion .

The resume module in one embodiment communicates with the active portion through for example a serial connection or other suitable connection. In one embodiment the resume module communicates with one or more peripheral devices such as a keyboard and a mouse . In one embodiment the resume module is an embedded controller. In certain embodiments the resume module may detect and or receive a predetermined signal from the mouse and or keyboard to wake up the first information handling device from the sleep state. The resume module may wake the first information handling device from the sleep state in response to the predetermined signal. For example in one embodiment the predetermined signal comprises a certain key combination or button press to wake the first information handling device .

The laptop computer may enter the sleep state in response to a variety of events. depicts one embodiment of one such event. depicts another embodiment of the laptop computer and smartphone of . In the depicted embodiment the laptop computer displays the video from the smartphone in a full screen mode on the display . In one embodiment the laptop computer may enter a sleep state in response to the window in which the video is initially displayed entering into a full screen mode . For example the user may trigger the window to enter into the full screen mode and the laptop computer may enter the sleep state in response to the window entering the full screen mode .

The notification module in one embodiment receives a sleep notification to place an information handling device into a sleep state. The information handling device in one embodiment comprises one embodiment of the first information handling device depicted in . The information handling device may receive a video signal. In one embodiment a second information handling device transmits the video signal to the information handling device . The second information handling device may comprise one embodiment of the second information handling device depicted in . In one embodiment the video signal is an MHL signal an HDMI signal or other digital video signal. In one embodiment the video signal includes video comprises video data for a screen of the second information handling device . Specifically the video signal may be a continuous screen capture of the second information handling device e.g. showing video content the second information handling device has would have on its display . In one embodiment the information handling device communicates with and or is integrated with a display as described above.

The sleep notification in one embodiment is a signal trigger and or notification to place the information handling device in a sleep state. The sleep notification may include a predetermined event and or a notification of a predetermined event. The sleep notification may originate from within the information handling device such as from an application executing on the information handling device .

For example in one embodiment the sleep notification includes a setting change of an application and or operating system executing on the information handling device . In a further embodiment the setting change may be a setting change on a window of a user interface of the information handling device . The user interface may comprise a user interface of an application executing on the information handling device and or an operating system executing on the information handling device .

The window in one embodiment displays video of the video signal on the user interface of the information handling device . The setting change may comprise a size change of the window a maximization of the window the window entering into a full screen mode or the like. For example in one embodiment the information handling device executes a Windows operating system from Microsoft and the window is a window displayed by the operating system and or an application running on the operating system. In one embodiment the video transmitted by the second information handling device is displayed in the window which as described above in relation to may be sized initially as a sub region of the display . In one embodiment if a user and or application maximizes the window triggers the window to expand to cover an entire area of the display and or causes the window to enter into a full screen mode the sleep notification may comprise an indication that of the window becoming maximized and or entering into the full screen mode. In one embodiment the sleep notification may be generated as described below in response to detecting the information handling device receive the video signal from the second information handling device .

The sleep notification may also originate from a source external to the information handling device such as from the second information handling device . For example in one embodiment the notification module receives the sleep notification from the second information handling device in communication with the information handling device . The second information handling device may be the source of the video signal transmitted to the information handling device . In one embodiment the second information handling device transmits a signal to the sleep notification module through an HDMI connection. For example a user may be transmitting video from his or her smartphone e.g. the second information handling device to a laptop computer e.g. the information handling device with an HDMI video connection and may enter a command on the smartphone to put the laptop computer to sleep. The smartphone may transmit the sleep notification to the sleep notification module in response to the user entering the command. In one embodiment the second information handling device transmits the sleep notification in response to receiving a notification from the information handling device of a window setting change or other indication that the information handling device should be placed into the sleep state. For example a user may enter a full screen mode with the video on the user s laptop and the laptop computer may transmit a notification that the window has been converted to the full screen mode to the user s smartphone which is transmitting the video signal. The user s smartphone may transmit the sleep notification to the laptop computer.

The sleep module in one embodiment enters the information handling device into the sleep state in response to the notification module receiving the sleep notification. The sleep state may comprise one of various low power states of the information handling device and or an operating system executing on the information handling device . In one embodiment the sleep state is an Advanced Configuration and Power Interface ACPI state such as an S S S or S state. In certain embodiments the sleep state may comprise any suitable state in which the information handling device and or an operating system executing and or managing the information handling device is maintained in a lower power state where at least a subset of components and or processes of the information handling device and or operating system are suspended such as a processor non volatile memory or the like.

In one embodiment entering the information handling device into the sleep state refers to signaling the information handling device and or an operating system managing the information handling device to enter into the sleep state issuing a command to an operating system to enter into the sleep state or otherwise causing the information handling device and or operating system to enter into the sleep state.

In one embodiment the sleep module enters the information handling device into the sleep state using an operating system command such as an Application Programming Interface API call. For example with a Windows operating system the sleep module may use the Windows.Forms.Application object s SetSuspendState command to enter the operating system into the sleep state.

In one embodiment a video signal passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state. The video signal may be transmitted from the second information handling device as described above. In one embodiment the video signal passing through the information handling device to the display means that a portion of the information handling device such as an expansion card maintains power and continues to process the video signal while the information handling device and or operating system managing the information handling device is in the sleep state as described above in relation to . In one embodiment the video signal passing through the information handling device further includes the video signal being received processed and output to the display as described above in relation to .

The signal processing module in one embodiment receives the video signal and transmits the video signal to the display . The signal processing module in one embodiment maintains power while the information handling device is in the sleep state. In one embodiment the signal processing module continues processing the video signal while the information handling device is in the sleep state and or passes through the information handling device to a display as the information handling device is in the sleep state. The signal processing module in one embodiment comprises one embodiment of the signal processing module described above in relation to .

The video detection module in one embodiment detects the information handling device receiving the video signal. The video signal in one embodiment is an HDMI signal. In this embodiment the video detection module may detect an incoming HDMI signal. In one embodiment the video detection module communicates with the signal processing module receiving the video signal as described above in relation to . In one embodiment the video detection module sends the sleep notification to the sleep notification module in response to detecting the information handling device receiving the video signal. For example a user may connect a second information handling device to the information handling device and begin transmitting video and the information handling device may enter the sleep state in response to the transmitted video.

The window module in one embodiment displays video of the video signal in a window on a user interface of the information handling device . In one embodiment the window module displays the video in the window in response to the detection module detecting the information handling device receiving the video signal. For example in one embodiment the information handling device executes a Windows operating system from Microsoft and the window is a window displayed by a user interface of the operating system and or an application running on the operating system. In one embodiment the video transmitted by the second information handling device is displayed in the window which as described above in relation to may be sized initially as a sub region of the display . The window module in one embodiment receives references and or obtains the video signal from the active portion e.g. the expansion card and displays video of the video signal in the window.

In one embodiment the sleep notification comprises an indication of a setting change of the window and the sleep module enters the information handling device into the sleep state in response to the setting change of the window. In one embodiment the setting change comprises a maximization of the window. In one embodiment a maximization of the window occurs when the window expands to cover an entire displayable area of the display . In certain embodiments borders and or toolbars of the window may remain visible when the window is maximized. In one embodiment the setting change comprises converting the window into a full screen mode. In one embodiment the window enters into a full screen mode by expanding to fill the entire displayable area of the display . In certain embodiments borders and or toolbars of the window may be hidden during full screen mode and or a resolution of the display may be changed during a full screen mode. In one embodiment the window module issues the sleep notification to the sleep notification module in response to detecting a setting change of the window. In one embodiment the window module detects the setting change of the window from a signal from the operating system indicating the setting change.

The resume module in one embodiment receives a resume notification and or wakes the information handling device from the sleep state in response to the resume notification. The resume module may comprise one embodiment of the resume module depicted in . In one embodiment the resume notification includes a notification from a second information handling device in communication with the information handling device . For example in one embodiment the second information handling device may transmit the resume notification across the video connection e.g. the HDMI connection to the resume module . In one embodiment the expansion card communicates with the resume module and at least a portion of the resume module comprises a microcontroller that communicates with other components of the information handling device to wake the information handling device from the sleep state in response to the resume notification. Specifically in one embodiment the resume module wakes up from the sleep state in response to the resume notification. The resume module may then wake up other components of the information handling device by transmitting additional signals to the other components.

In one embodiment the resume notification includes a button press and or one or more keystrokes. In this embodiment the resume module may be in communication with a keyboard and or a mouse and may receive input from the keyboard and or mouse to wake the information handling device . For example the resume notification may include a certain keystroke combination. If the resume module detects the keystroke combination the resume module may wake up the information handling device .

If the resume module does not detect a resume notification the signal processing module continues to process the video signal. If the resume module detects a resume notification the resume module wakes the information handling device and the method ends.

Embodiments may be practiced in other specific forms. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

