---

title: Methods and apparatuses of using metal needle arrays for specimen lift-out and circuit edit
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide method and apparatus of restoring probes attached to the manipulator in a control environment (e.g. vacuum chamber of an focus ion beam) without a need to open the vacuum chamber. Another embodiment of the present invention teaches construction and application of various shapes of nanoforks from a nanoneedles array inside a FIB vacuum chamber. In another embodiment, the present invention teaches edition and correction of completed and oxide-coated circuit boards by re-nano-wiring using nanoneedles of a nanoneedles array (as nanowire supply), contained in the same controlled space. In this embodiment, individual nanoneedles in a nanoneedle array are manipulated by a manipulator and placed in such a way to make electrical contact between the desired points.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08819926&OS=08819926&RS=08819926
owner: 
number: 08819926
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120204
---
This invention was made with Government support under Grant IIP 1058576 awarded by National Science Foundation Grant KSTC184 512 10 107 awarded by Kentucky Science Technology Corporation and by the National Science Foundation under Grant IIP 1059286 to the American Society for Engineering Education ASEE . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The microprocessor industry continues to scale down the feature sizes and the number of transistors on VLSI circuits. Scaling below the 100 nm node has produced the situation in which SEM inspection no longer offers suitable resolution to image key artifacts and structures. Therefore the transmission electron microscope TEM is considered to be the method of choice for process control and failure analysis especially for measurements such as the thickness of non planar barrier and seed layers. However TEM samples must be thin in order for the high energy electrons to transmit through the samples and image the sample. To prepare such specimens focused ion beam FIB microscope is used to cut a biopsy specimen from the silicon wafer and thin it to be used for TEM imaging and evaluation. After the specimen is cut by FIB a nanomanipulator is used for in situ lift out to lift the specimens and put it on the TEM grid for imaging. For that a sharp probe mainly a tungsten probe is brought in contact with the specimen using a nanomanipulator arm. Then using ion beam metal deposition the tungsten probe is welded to the specimen and the specimen lift and move by the manipulator and placed on the TEM grid. Then using the FIB the tungsten probe is cut and separated from the specimen.

However after each cut the probe tip become thicker due to conical shape of the tungsten probe and finally the user must either sharpen it using the FIB or eventually change the probe when sharpening takes very long time.

As just another challenge in failure analysis of devices in semiconductor industry currently there are methods for modifying circuits after they are insulated by oxide coatings or similar materials. The circuit can be edited and or redesigned by forming secondary connections on top of the insulating layer. Currently the FIB is used to first open vias i.e. hole in the silicon oxide layer and reach to the metal contact underneath. Then metal e.g. tungsten is deposited using ion beam metal deposition to fill the vias with metal. Finally the metal is deposited between the two vias to connect the two points together. However the metal deposition rate between the two vias is usually a slow process and takes several minutes to deposit a few micrometer long contacts.

In one embodiment of the present invention sharp probes attached to the manipulator are restored or modified without a need to open up a controlled space which is usually vacuumed. The method apparatus for in situ restoration of probe tips saves considerable time and resources. Another embodiment of the present invention teaches construction and application of a nanofork to handle specimen without the need to weld the specimen to the probe. Yet another embodiment of the present invention teaches edition and correction of completed and oxide coated circuit boards by re nano wiring using nanoneedles on nanoneedle arrays contained in the same controlled space.

One embodiment of the present invention is a method for restoring the probe tip by adding a new tip to the tip of a probe that is blunt or shortened inside the FIB chamber without breaking the vacuum. This embodiment comprises the steps of loading an array of freestanding needles through the load lock into the FIB chamber bringing the tungsten probe in contact with one of the needles in the array welding the needles to the probes by ion beam metal deposition cutting the other end of the needle from the array to add the needle from the array to the probe. In one embodiment this process is repeated whenever the needle is cut or shortened and or whenever the probe needs to be sharpened again. In this embodiment having a large inventory of needles in the array inside the closed vacuumed space a probe tip can be restored numerous times. In one embodiment an array of having 1000 needles with a length of 20 to 50 m long can have a sum of 20 to 50 mm long needle and can last for several thousand lifts.

In one embodiment the needle array can be coated with a metal coating such as tungsten or multiple metal coating to be stable in the FIB. In this mode by controlling the thickness of the coated metal film the needles thickness in the array can be controlled to manipulate the electrical mechanical and chemical properties of the nanoneedles in the array.

Shown in as pieces of the nanoneedle tip of the probe are severed cut when removing the specimen the nanoneedles get shorter and shorter until the nanoneedles is almost consumed entirely and only a small piece remains.

As shown in in one embodiment of the present invention the spent nanoneedle tip or the tungsten probe itself in case there is no residual tip is brought in contact to the nanoneedle array and touches a new nanoneedle in the nanoneedles array . Then the probe tip is welded to the nanoneedles and the nanoneedles is cut from the nanoneedle array hence leaving a new tip in place . The re sharpened nanoneedle probe can then be used again. The nanoneedle probe become shorter after each lift and cut and eventually finishes. Therefore the restoring process can be done by adding another needle from the array to the probes 

As shown in one embodiment of the present invention represents a method for using a needle array for making special forks for specimen lift out without a need for welding the probe tip to the specimen. Depending on the shape of the specimen considered for lift out different fork shapes can be fabricated to lift out the specimen without welding the specimen to the probe. One embodiment of the present invention which addresses this objective comprises the steps of 1 welding one needle to the tungsten probe to form a stem 2 bringing the first needle in contact with a second needle 3 welding the second needle to the first needle at the free end and cut the second needle from the middle to form a first branch as shown in and 4 welding the remaining of the second needle or a third needle to the first needle at the junction of the first and first branch forming a second branch such that the second branch is parallel to the first branch and therefore forming a nanoscale fork nanofork with two arms as shown in . In this embodiment there is a small gap between the first and second branch.

As shown in in one embodiment by aligning said fork s opening gap with the specimen such that by pushing the nanofork on the specimen the nanofork s flexible and highly elastic arms and are slightly opened and the specimen slides into being held by above mentioned arms . Then the specimen is cut off from its base and is lifted by the nanofork . In one embodiment to release the specimen it is first brought in contact with the TEM grid holder and is welded to the holder and then the fork is moved away from the specimen to leave the specimen in the TEM grid .

As shown in in yet another embodiment of the present invention two or more nanoneedles as arms are bent and welded to each other at one end and also welded to a stem or otherwise a probe at the same end while their concave sides are opposing each other to form a loop shape nano tweezers. This embodiment which addresses the fabrication of the loop shape nano tweezers comprises the steps of 1 welding one needle to the tungsten probe to form a stem 2 Welding a first branch to first needles 3 welding a second branch to the first needle 4 connecting and closing the freestanding end of the first and second branch to each other by welding and therefore forming a loop shape nano tweezers . In this embodiment there is a gap that is larger than the size of the specimen between the second and third branch in order for the specimen to easily slides in the loop as shown in . The specimen slides between the arms of the loop shape nano tweezers and is held inside the closed loop only by the tips of the nanoneedles without a need for any kind of welding. The specimen is then cut from the substrate and hold by the loop shape nano tweezers which is then moved away by the micromanipulator and as a result the specimen is also moved away from substrate base as shown in .

One embodiment of the present invention is a method for modifying circuits even after they are coated insulated by silicon oxides or similar materials. In this embodiment the circuit is edited and or redesigned by cutting through the insulated material and opening vias and connecting the vias by forming secondary connections using nanoneedles. The array substrate is used as supply for secondary connections and the nanomanipulator inside a control environment is used as mean for placing the secondary connections.

In one embodiment for modification of circuits as a first step vias openings or other forms of cavity are created in the coating insulating layer so that the conductors are exposed. After exposing the conductors by creating open cavities the vias are filled with metal e.g. tungsten by ion beam deposition. In one embodiment the deposited metal is at the same level or higher than the surface of the protective insulator. Then appropriate exposed conductors as determined by redesigning modification needs are connected using metal nanoneedles and micro manipulators to navigate.

One embodiment of a method of the present invention to connect two conductors in two vias comprises the following steps 1 using a nanoneedle with a length equal to or larger than the distance between the two vias a needle is attached to a tungsten probe that is in turn attached to a nanomanipulator arm 2 the free end of the needle is brought into contact with the first conductor welding the needle s free end to the conductor 3 the probe is moved parallel to the substrate properly such that a mid point of the needle or the probe end of the needle touches a target conductor where it is welded to and 4 finally the needle is cut off from the tungsten probe leaving in place a nanowire connecting the first conductor to the second conductor.

In one embodiment the free end of the nanoneedles is brought in contact with one of the metal deposited areas and welded to it by ion beam metal deposition . Since these nanoneedles are flexible very elastic the needle are pushed slightly in such a way that some part of the needle it can be either the very end where it is welded to the micro probes or somewhere in the shaft of the needle touches the second metal deposited area previously deposited on the exposed electrode conductor to fill the via where it is subsequently welded to the metal contact followed by cutting the additional part of it. In yet another embodiment of the present invention after a second point of the nanoneedle is welded to the target conductor and before cut off the micromanipulator can move again and aim towards connecting to a second target conductor. In other embodiments this process is repeated as desired. In yet another embodiment the cut off actions are postponed to after all such inter connections are performed and then all cut offs are performed in one or more shots as desired. In another embodiment by choosing a nanoneedle with desired thickness the electrical conductivity of the nanoneedle therefore the connection between the two nodes can be adjusted as thicker nanoneedles are more conductive and thinner ones are less conductive.

An example of a general circuit with conductors cylinders connected to nodes contacts is shown in . The circuit is printed onto a silicon chip and is then coated insulated by a layer of silicon oxide to protect the circuit. In this drawing the silicon oxide layer is shown as a transparent layer on the surface of the circuit. The additional contact done by adding nanoneedles are shown by .

One embodiment of the method for editing circuits presented in this invention comprises of cutting a hole through the silicon oxide layer above the nodes to be edited exposing the contacts and laying down a new conductive pathway between the nodes over the oxide coating layer. As shown in one embodiment of a method of the present invention to connect two conductors in two vias comprises the following steps 1 shown in the tungsten wire probe is moved into position near the nanoneedle array 2 shown in a nanoneedle is welded to a tungsten probe that is in turn attached to a nanomanipulator arm and the nanoneedle is cut from the array substrate to attach a nanoneedles to tungsten probe in such a way that the length of the nanoneedle to be equal or longer than the distance between the two nodes that are going to be connected by the nanoneedle .

As shown in the nanoneedle is brought in proximity of the circuit to be edit using a nanomanipulator in a controlled environment. The nanoneedle is oriented to be aligned with parallel to the surface of the oxide coating later . The nanoneedle is positioned near the circuit to be edited. One embodiment of the method for editing circuits presented in this invention comprises of cutting a hole through the silicon oxide layer above the nodes to be edited exposing the contacts and laying down a new conductive pathway between the nodes over the oxide coating layer. In this embodiment the tungsten wire probe is moved into position near the nanoneedle array. Then the tungsten wire is welded to the nanoneedle. The nanoneedle now attached to the tungsten wire is cut from the array and is positioned near the circuit to be edited. The nanoneedle is oriented to be aligned with parallel to the surface of the oxide coating later. The nanoneedle is positioned near the circuit to be edited.

