---

title: Method and apparatus for establishing a connection with known individuals
abstract: Methods and related systems are presented that relate to establishing communications among individuals connected through social networking services. To obtain the contact information of an encountered connection, a person may take a photo of the connection and provide information indicating how he/she knows the connection. Using the provided information, a subset of the person's connections in the social networking services that he/she belongs to is selected. The photos included in the profiles of the connections in the selected subset are searched and a profile that includes an image with features matching the features of the obtained image is selected. Once a match is found, personal information of the connection is obtained from his/her profile and transmitted to the person. The individuals can establish connection using the obtained personal information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843518&OS=08843518&RS=08843518
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08843518
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120717
---
Social networking services facilitate building of social networks or social relationships among members. Most social networking services require the members to register with the service and maintain a personal profile with the service. The personal profile often includes personal information e.g. name date of birth location phone number email address etc. that may be used to identify the profile owner. Further most personal profiles include an image of the profile owner.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods computer implemented methods and corresponding systems for establishing contact among individuals. In certain embodiments an image of a second person obtained using a camera coupled with a mobile communications device of a first person may be stored in the mobile communications device. The first person and the second person each belong to at least one social networking service and each have a number of connections in his her respective social groups. Each social networking service requires members to maintain a personal profile and store some personal information in their personal profile. The first person and the second person have a social networking service in common. The second person maintains a profile on the common social networking service that includes an image of the second person and personal information regarding the second person. A subset of a database of connections is selected. The database of connections maintains information regarding social networking service connections of the first person and the subset of the database is selected based on available information regarding the second person. The selected subset of the database is searched and a profile having an image similar to the image obtained from the second person is determined. The personal information included in the determined profile is provided to the first person.

In some embodiments communications may be established with the second person using the provided personal information. The established communications includes at least one of a phone call a video call or an e mail communication.

The personal information stored in the personal profile may include at least one of name age date of birth gender marital status place of residence hometown place of birth current school alma mater school past or present place of employment field of employment or work and community experiences of the members.

In some embodiments the available information regarding the second person may be received from the first person. The available information may indicate at least one of known personal information of the second person known common social networking services or known groups within a common social networking service. In some embodiments the available information regarding the second person may be obtained using at least one of geographical location or global positioning of location where the image of the second person is obtained.

In some embodiments the profile having the image similar to the image obtained from the second person may be determined by extracting one or more features from the image obtained from the second person comparing the extracted features to features included in images in profiles included in the subset of the database of connections and obtaining an image having features similar to the extracted features.

The personal information included in the determined profile may be provided by at least one of displaying the personal information or playing an audio of the personal information 

The social networking service may be any service platform or website that facilitates creating networks or relations among people who share interests activities backgrounds or connections. In some embodiments the social networking service may be a business related social networking service. In some embodiments the social networking service may be a service used to find jobs and recommend business opportunities. In some embodiments the social networking service may be an online dating service.

In some embodiments the members of the social networking service may identify other individuals as connections friends colleagues or acquaintances. The members may build their social network by inviting other users to become a connection i.e. first degree connections . The social networking service may maintain a list of connections for each user. In some embodiments the social networking service may further maintain a list of second degree connections i.e. connections of the connections of each person. Lists of other levels of connections e.g. third or fourth degree connections may also be maintained.

In some embodiments the social networking service may require users to register and create a personal profile not shown before using the service. The personal profile of each user may include identifying information such as name age date of birth gender marital status place of residence hometown place of birth current school alma mater school past or present place of employment field of employment work and community experiences etc.

In some embodiments common interest members of a social networking service may join common interest groups organized by workplace school or college geographical area or other characteristics and categorize their friends into lists such as family work friends or close friends. 

In some embodiments the personal profile may include one or more photos of the profile owner. In some embodiments the personal profile may include the profile owner s resume or curriculum vitae. In some embodiments the photos or the resume included in a members profile may be used as an aid in identification of the members.

In certain embodiments the photos included in a member s personal profile may include labeled blocks of information. For example in certain embodiments the images of the individuals may be labeled i.e. tagged with identifiers e.g. name of those individuals.

In certain embodiments a member s information such as photos and resume may only be available to his her first degree connections or a limited subset of his her first degree connection. The connections included in the subset of connections with whom the information is shared may be selected by the member. In certain embodiments the member s information may be available to his her connections connections and their connections. In some embodiments the member s information may be available publicly.

The mobile communications device user may belong to one or more social networking services labeled in as social networking service 1 . . . social networking service n n 1 . Each social networking service may maintain a database in which the profiles and profile information of the members are stored. For clarity in the databases maintained by all of the social networking services to which the mobile communications device user may belong are collectively referred to as databases of social networking services .

The mobile communications user may be equipped with one or more mobile communications devices . Examples of the mobile communications devices that may be used with the embodiments disclosed herein include but are not limited to mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants portable televisions laptop computers digital video recorders etc. In some embodiments the mobile communications device user s connection may also be equipped with his her mobile communications device not shown .

The mobile communications device may include a display not shown for displaying images and interfaces of various application programs. In certain embodiments the mobile communications device may include a camera not shown for obtaining pictures or videos. In some embodiments the camera may be a built in camera. In certain embodiments the camera may be a separate unit that is coupled e.g. wirelessly or through a physical connection such as a network connection with the communications device .

The mobile communications user may connect to a communications network via respective communications links and gain access to various communications features e.g. voice calls video calls data access web browsing text messaging etc. through his her mobile communications device .

In some embodiments the mobile communications user may use the mobile communications device to connect to the social networking services to which he she belongs via the communications network and the communications link . In certain embodiments the mobile communications user may interact with a social networking service via a traditional web browser. In certain embodiments the mobile communications device user may interact with a social networking service via using an application programming interface API .

In some embodiments the mobile communications device may include an application program hereinafter referenced as the click and connect application program that accesses the databases of the social networking services to which both user and his her connection belong and obtains identifying information regarding the connection .

In certain embodiments the identifying information may include all available information regarding the connection . For example in some embodiments the identifying information may include the connection s business and personal phone numbers email addresses etc. In some embodiments the identifying information may be limited as a function of the nature of the relationship between the user and his her connection . For example if the relationship between the user and his her connection is of a business related nature the identifying information may include the connection s business contact information. Similarly if the relationship between the user and his her connection is of a personal nature the identifying information may include the connection s personal contact information. In some embodiments if the relationship between the user and his her connection is categorized as being both personal and business related both personal and business contact information may be provided.

In some embodiments the connection may indicate the level of information that he she wishes to share with those trying to obtain his her contact information. For example the connection may make his her personal information available to only a selected subset of users . In some embodiments the connection may indicate that he she does not wish to share any information with the user . In some embodiments the connection may select to only share certain contact information with the user . For example the contact may indicate that he she wishes to only share his her business email address with the user .

Specifically in some embodiments the mobile communications device user provides the click and connect application program with a representation of the connection e g. a photo obtained from the connection for whom he she wishes to obtain certain information. The click and connect application program connects via the communications network and communications link to the databases of the social networking services to which the user belongs and searches the databases using one or more known image recognition programs as described in more detail below in order to find a connection whose representation best matches the representation . Once a match is obtained the click and connect application program returns the information obtained from the databases regarding the connection to the mobile communications device user . In certain embodiments a profile image may be declared as matching the obtained image if certain features of the person included in the obtained image such as height of forehead height of nose distance between nose and forehead and or skin texture match those of the person included in the profile image.

In certain embodiments the mobile communications device user may provide the click and connect application program with prior information regarding his her connection . The information provided by the user is used by the click and connect application program to narrow the search for the connection to a subset of the user s connections.

In certain embodiments certain threshold levels for the amount of similarity between the image obtained by the user and the profile image required to constitute a match may be imposed. In certain embodiments such threshold levels may be imposed by the click and connect application program . In some embodiments the threshold may be variable and the user may be allowed to set or vary the threshold. In certain embodiments a threshold level of between e.g. 75 80 may be imposed. This threshold level for example may be an average level imposed over all of the features of the person being matched or may be for a selected subset e.g. 5 of 6 six features match better than 75 . The latter may be useful especially as a feature such as hair length and color may change intermittently.

For example in one embodiment the mobile communications device user may provide the click and connect application program with prior information regarding the social networking service e.g. name of the social networking service through which he she believes to have connected with his her connection . Based on this information the click and connect application program limits its search to the database of the user s connection in the specified social networking service.

In some embodiments the mobile communications device user may provide the click and connect application program with information regarding the geographical location e.g. town country for which he she believes to know his her connection from. In certain embodiments in place of the prior information the click and connect application program may obtain the current geographical location of mobile communications device user e.g. through Global Position System GPS included in the mobile communications device and use the location information in place of or in addition to the prior information . Based on this information the click and connect application program limits its search to the database of the user s connection that are listed as being located in the specified geographical location.

In some embodiments the prior information may include information regarding a group or a community to which the mobile communications device user and his her connection both belong. For example the user may indicate that connection is classified as a college friend in a certain social networking service. In response the click and connect application program limits its search to the database of the user s connection that are classified as college friends in the specified social networking service.

The click and connect application program may maintain a list of all of the social networking services to which the user belongs. The list of the social networking services to which the user belongs may be provided by the user to the click and connect application program . In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may include an interface that displays available social networking services and allows the user to select the services to which he she belongs. In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may automatically search available social networking services to determine if the user maintains a profile in any of the available social networking services . For example assuming that the user s name is Jane Doe the click and connect application program may search for all profiles belonging to Jane Doe in the available social networking services and prompt the user to select the profiles that he she would like to link with the click and connect application program . In some embodiments the linking of the user s profiles with the connect application program may be done during an initial set up of the connect application program . In certain embodiments this linkage may be done prior to or at the time of each search. In certain embodiments the user s login ID handle and or password for accessing each social networking service may also be maintained.

The mobile communications device user may request a variety of information regarding his her connection from the click and connect application program . For example in certain embodiments the mobile communications device user may request the name of the connection from the click and connect application program . Alternatively or additionally the mobile communications device user may request information regarding the connection such as age date of birth marital status phone number email address home address etc. from click and connect application program .

In some embodiments the mobile communications device user may encounter a connection in a real life social setting e.g. as shown in the connection being on board of a train and the user noticing him her while leaving the train station . He she may wish to schedule a meeting with the connection or directly contact the connection via email text messaging phone call a comment or message sent via a social networking service . etc. The mobile communications device user obtains a representation e.g. photo or video of the connection and forwards the obtained representation to the click and connect application program . In some embodiments the mobile communications device user may also input additional information regarding the connection to the click and connect application program . For example the mobile communications device user may input information regarding how he she relates to his her connection and or through which social networking services he she is connected to the connection . As noted above general information regarding the location and or the GPS location information of the location at which the representation is obtained may further be used as prior information for the click and connect application program .

The click and connect application program uses the prior information to select relevant databases of the social networking services for a representation that best matches the representation. Specifically in certain embodiments the click and connect application program uses the prior information to limit its search of the databases of the social networking services to only the databases that correspond to the prior information .

As noted previously the user may belong to a number of groups or networks within each social networking service. For example the user may belong to a network of individuals working for a certain company e.g. colleagues at XYZ law firm or a network of individuals performing similar tasks e.g. female patent practitioners . Further the user may classify his her connections within certain groups or networks e.g. close friends family etc. . In some embodiments the click and connect application program may maintain a list of such groups and networks. In such embodiments the click and connect application program uses the list of groups and networks to accelerate its search of the profiles of the user s connection. For example upon encountering a connection if the user specifies that the connection is a female patent practitioner the click and connect application program may limit its search to those social networking services in which female patent practitioner groups or networks are maintained.

In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may maintain a classification of the social networking services . In some embodiments the social networking services may be classified under categories provided by the click and connect application program or by the user . For example the social networking services may be classified under labels such as business personal etc. If upon encountering a connection the user specifies that the connection fits under a certain category of connections e.g. business connection the click and connect application program limits its search to the databases of the social networking services classified under the specified label e g. business social networking services .

In certain embodiments multiple levels of classification may be used to further limit the search space of the click and connect application program . For example the user may specify that the connection is a business connection and also a female patent practitioner connection. In response the click and connect application program limits its search to the social networking services that are labeled classified as being business related and include female patent practitioner groups or networks.

For example if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she believes to know the connection from a certain social networking service the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections of the user in that social networking service . Similarly if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she believes to have attended college with the connection the click and connect application program may limit the search to the individuals classified under college friends. In some embodiments if the click and connect application program identifies that the mobile communications device user is encountering the connection within a certain locality e.g. Boston area the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections classified under Boston Area friends. In some embodiments unions or intersections of groups may be used to form the search field. For example if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she knows the connection from college and that they attended college in the Boston area the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections included in a set created from obtaining the intersection of the connections included in Boston Area friends field and the college friends fields. Similarly if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she either went to college with the connection or knows the person from his her neighborhood in the Boston area the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections included in a set created from obtaining the union of the connections included in Boston Area friends field and the college friends fields.

In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may compare the representation although various representations may be used the term image is being used hereinafter to refer to all obtained representations obtained from the connection against images included in the personal profiles of the connections included in the subset of databases that have been selected for searching.

In some embodiments the click and connect application program may include a module feature selector shown later in that selects and extracts certain features e.g. shape of the eye shape of the nose overall facial shape of the obtained photo of the connection . In certain embodiments in addition to or in place of performing feature extraction the click and connect application program may perform face recognition procedures and search for a profile photo that best matches the face of the individual included in the obtained photo of the connection. Further in some embodiments the click and connect application program may include a classifier shown later in that performs the required classification procedures for obtaining a best match and selecting a personal profile photo that best matches the obtained photo . In some embodiments metric representing the features included in the image may be determined and compared against corresponding metrics of the images included in the profiles of the user s connections.

In certain embodiments in an event a match is not obtained the click and connect application program may present the user with a number of profiles or profile pictures and request that the user selects from among the presented profiles the connection whose information the user is trying to obtain.

In some embodiments the click and connect application program may search the database of first degree connections of the user in order to obtain a match to the connection . In some embodiments the profiles of other connections e.g. second degree connections third degree connections etc. may be searched. In certain embodiments only the profiles of the connections who have allowed a search of their profiles may be accessed. In some embodiments only the profiles of the connections that have made their images available to the user may be searched. In certain embodiments only the profiles of the connections that have elected to share their identifying information e.g. name age date of birth gender marital status place of residence hometown place of birth current school alma mater school past or present place of employment field of employment work and community experiences etc. may be searched.

In some embodiments once the requested information is obtained from the click and connect application program the click and connect application program may automatically initiate a connection between the mobile communications device user and his her connection . For example in some embodiments the click and connect application program may trigger a calendar invitation for a meeting between the mobile communications device user and his her connection to be sent to the connection e.g. via the email address obtained during the search. In some embodiments the click and connect application program may automatically initiate other means of communications such as a phone call an email a text message etc. The type of communications initiated may be specified by the user at the time of search. In some embodiments the click and connect application program may maintain a list of the user s preferred communications type and select from the list of preferred communications type. In some embodiments a priority list of communications types may be maintained by the user. For example a list including elements such as phone call email text message etc. may be maintained. In some embodiments the click and connect application program may receive input from the mobile communications device user regarding the type of the connection e.g. phone call email text message calendar invite etc. that the mobile communications device user wishes to make with his her connection .

In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may provide the mobile communications device user with the requested information e.g. by displaying the requested information on the screen of the mobile communications device or playing audio including the contact information . The user may use the requested information at a later time e.g. to establish contact with the connection .

In an event the click and connect application program is be able to find a match for the connection in some embodiments the click and connect application program provides the user with a number of profiles that have been determined to have certain levels of similarities with the connection and presents the user with the option of selecting from among the presented connections. In some embodiments the click and connect application program may present the user with all connections fitting the provided prior information. For example the click and connect application program may provide the user with a listing of all connections labeled as close friends. In some embodiments the click and connect application program may indicate to the user that a match was not found and provide the user with the option of another search.

In some embodiments the user may store the image in any desired directory in the mobile communications device . In certain embodiments the image may be automatically stored in a directory in the memory shown later with reference to of the mobile communications device . In some embodiments the click and connect application program may gain access to the directory containing the image by searching the directories of the mobile communications device for images for example recently acquired images . In some embodiments the user may point out to the click and connect application program the image that should be used to obtain the requested information regarding the connection e.g. by selecting the connection s image or by dragging and dropping the image into a folder not shown designated by the click and connect application program . In some embodiments the click and connect application program may directly obtain the image by providing an interface that the user may use to directly work with the camera and obtain images and use the obtained image to determine the requested information regarding the contact. The obtained image may be stored permanently in the mobile communications device or be saved in a temporary directory and later disposed. For example in some embodiments the obtained image may be disposed of after a period of time e.g. one day . The time period may be set by the click and connect application program or by the user. In certain embodiments the obtained image is disposed of once the search is completed.

As noted previously the click and connect application program may obtain some prior information regarding the connection . The prior information may include information obtained directly by the click and connect application program e.g. GPS information and or information obtained from the user .

In certain embodiments the click and connect application program interface may include one or more fields for receiving the prior information from the user . For example the fields may be arranged to receive information e.g. by the user directly entering the information or selecting the information from a plurality of option . The received information may include name age gender marital status schools attended employment information and history geographical location social networking service memberships group memberships etc. of the connection .

In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may include a database selector that selects at least one appropriate database for searching based on the prior information . Specifically the database selector evaluates the prior information and based on the prior information determines the social networking services and or groups to which the connection may belong. The databases of the determined social networking services and groups are selected from among all available databases of the social networking services .

The obtained image is forwarded to a classifier that evaluates the similarities between the image and the images included in the selected database and determines one or more images from the database that best matches the obtained image .

In certain embodiments the classifier may include a structural similarities calculator not shown that determines the structural similarities between the image and the images included in the selected database . For example in some embodiments the structural similarities calculator may determine a metric representing the structural information included in the image and determine corresponding metrics representing similar structural information for the images included in the selected database . The determined metric of the image is compared against the metrics determined for the images included in the selected database and the image having the closest metric to the determine metric of the image is selected.

In some embodiments the classifier may employ facial recognition schemes to determine the profile image from among the images included in the selected database that best corresponds to the image obtained from the mobile communications device user s connection . In some embodiments the classifier may include a feature extractor not shown that extracts certain features of the connection such as facial features e.g. size or shape of the eyes nose mouth cheekbones jaw relative positioning of the eyes nose and mouth from the image . These features are used to search for other images from among the images included in the selected database that include similar features.

The classifier may use various classification schemes. For example classifiers such as Zero Rules ZeroR Na ve Bayesian Simple Logistic Regression Simple Logistic Support Vector Machine SMO k nearest neighbor IBk and Random Forest Regression Random Forest may be used.

In certain embodiments the classifier may return multiple classification results. In such condition the click and connect application program may prompt the user to select a match from among the multiple classification results. For example the user may be connected to a person and a close relative of that person through the same social networking service . If the connection from whom the image is obtained and his her relative have similar facial features and have been classified under the same group of connection e.g. if they both attended college with the user and are both classified under college friends the classifier may prompt the user to select between the connection and his her relative. Once the user makes his her selection the classifier presents the user with the requested information for the selected person. In certain embodiments the classifier may present the user with the requested information for all connections that have been determined to match the obtained image . In such case the click and connect application program provides the user with the option to select his her desired connection and the connections information from among the results returned by the classifier .

The requested information may be used directly by the click and connect application program to establish contact with the connection . In certain embodiments the click and connect application program may prompt the user to determine based on user input the type e.g. phone call video call conferencing call calendar invite email etc. that the user wishes to make with the connection and establish the connection based on the input received from the user.

In certain embodiments the requested information may be forwarded to the user e.g. on the display of the mobile device or played as an audio for use in establishing contact with the connection .

The main memory may also include an operating system that implements various conventional operating system functions including memory management and controlled access to various devices such as a database storage and task and process scheduling. The data storage may include content for use with embodiments disclosed herein such as images text video audio and computer applications.

The processor may be coupled to various interfaces via an input output I O device interface . The I O device interface may include logic to interface with various input and or output devices such as a keypad or mouse and with the processor and allow signals to be transferred between the processor and other components. Further interface devices such as speaker microphone peripheral devices and display may be used to transfer signals to from the processor and main memory . In some embodiments the input output interface may include a USB port not shown .

In some embodiments the device may include a network device interface that provides the device with access to a network connection.

The user also may provide prior information regarding the connection whose image has been taken step . For example the user may indicate how she her knows the connection to which group of friends the connection may belong and or through which social networking service they are connected. In some embodiments the prior information may be obtained directly by the click and connect application program and without input from the user based on information such as the geographical location or global positioning of the location where the image has been taken.

The click and connect application program is linked to the social networking services to which the user belongs and is able to access the database of the user s connections and their connections if allowed . Based on the prior information the click and connect application program selects a subset of the databases of the user s connections in the social networking services for conducting a search step . In some embodiments the database may be selected by taking the intersection or union of the available databases. For example if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she knows the connection from college and that they attended college in the Boston area the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections included in a set created from obtaining the intersection of the connections included in Boston Area friends field and the college friends fields. Similarly if the mobile communications device user indicates that he she either went to college with the connection or knows the person from his her neighborhood in the Boston area the click and connect application program may limit the search to the connections included in a set created from obtaining the union of the connections included in Boston Area friends field and the college friends fields.

The click and connect application program forwards the obtained image and the prior information to a classifier that searches the selected subset of databases in order to obtain one or more profiles that include images that best match the obtained image step .

The personal information included in the matching profiles is forwarded to the user step and may be used by the user to establish contact e.g. via email phone call voice mail calendar invite etc. with the connection.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

