---

title: Methods and systems for identifying similar schools
abstract: Method, apparatus, and a computer-readable storage device for determining similarities. A plurality of sets having social network service members as entities is constructed by associating each of the social network service members with each of a predetermined selection of professional outcomes by school of graduation of the member. One of the plurality of sets is selected. A similarity algorithm calculates the similarity score of at least some of the plurality of sets in the plurality of sets to the selected one of the plurality of sets, and presents for rendering the k sets in the plurality of sets with the highest similarity scores. The similarity algorithm used may be a cosine similarity algorithm using the sets as vectors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317875&OS=09317875&RS=09317875
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09317875
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121008
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems and techniques for processing and presenting content within an online social network environment. In specific examples the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for analyzing and aggregating education information such as degrees achieved and universities at which degrees were achieved by individual members of a social network service so as to present the aggregated information in an interactive manner that enables members of the social network service to explore a wide variety of university information and options when deciding on a university to attend job outcomes by graduates of schools are also aggregated to enable users to determine likely job outcomes based on schools attended.

A social network service is a computer or web based application that enables its members to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. In general a social network service enables people to memorialize or acknowledge the relationships that exist in their offline i.e. real world lives by establishing a computer based representation of these same relationships in the online world. Many social network services require or request that each member provide personal information about the member such as professional information including information regarding their educational background employment positions that the member has held and so forth. This information is frequently referred to as profile information or member profile information. In many instances social network services enable members with the appropriate data access rights to view the personal information e.g. member profiles of other members. Although such personal information about individual members can be useful in certain scenarios it may not provide many insights into big picture questions about various professions careers and individual jobs or employment positions and in particular the formal education that is often required to achieve certain career aspirations.

Methods and systems for determining similarity among entities are described. Similarity among schools is used as an example. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Many social network services and particularly those with a professional or business focus request or even require users to provide various items of personal information including information concerning a user s educational background employment history and career. For example a user may be prompted to provide information concerning the schools and universities attended the dates or years of attendance the subject matter concentration e.g. academic concentration or major as well as the professional certifications and or academic degrees that the user has obtained. As used herein the term schools is used in the sense of educational institutions such as universities community colleges high schools trade schools and any other organization where students are engaged in learning. Similarly a user may be prompted to provide information concerning the companies for which he or she has worked the employment positions e.g. job titles held the dates of such employment the skills obtained and any special recognition or awards received. The data that is requested and obtained may be structured or unstructured. Other information may be requested and provided as well such as a professional summary which summarizes a user s employment skills and experiences or an objective or mission statement indicating the user s professional or career aspirations. For purposes of this disclosure the above described data or information is generally referred to as member profile data or member profile information. Furthermore each individual item of data or information may be referred to as a member profile attribute.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a social network service includes a school similarity information aggregation service which is referred to hereinafter as the school similarity module or school similarity application. Consistent with some embodiments the school similarity application analyzes and aggregates the member profile information of all or some subset of members of the social network service to provide a rich and easy to access set of tools that enable members and other users to explore and discover a variety of similarity information and possibly trends concerning various schools as they relate to industries professions employments positions and or actual career outcomes based on member profile data. For example in some embodiments the system identifies similar sets of members which are useful for a number of functions from recommending other universities to prospective students to analyzing fields of study to finding organizations and clubs within a specific school to getting help with school work. The data of the social network service is used to create a representation of sets of members and then identify the most similar sets of members in the population. Specifically each member is represented by his or her professional outcome e.g. current job title and industry found on the member s social network service profile. Then a similarity function may be used to identify similar university departments and similar universities from the sets of members. Stated another way the similarity functions described herein compare disjoint sets of students by the common metric of professional outcome to draw conclusions about sets of students creating aggregations of many students instead of treating each student individually. The disclosed school similarity application enables a user to generate and view a graphical representation of schools that are similar in a field of study or of schools that are similar to a given school. The school similarity application enables a user to create or map a group of schools similar to a given school.

As described herein schools are ranked by evaluating how well they produce a wide variety of desirable post graduate outcomes including degrees from graduate and professional schools and positions in specific industries and roles. Using data from a professional social network on tens of millions of American professionals the ranking system creates individual rankings of schools comparing schools by how likely their students are to achieve specific outcomes.

With some embodiments the school similarity application includes certain resources particularly useful for those who may be considering education prospects for the first time. For example with some embodiments a member can select a school or a particular department within that school and view information relating to schools that are similar to that particular school.

A user interface or web page e.g. a School Page University Page or College Page may be constructed for each educational institution from the data obtained by the social network service which may show ranking of the institution by companies that hired its graduates in this context graduates may be viewed as members of the social network service to job functions of graduates to geographical locations in which graduates are working. Such a user interface is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 647 027 entitled Methods and Systems For Obtaining And Presenting Alumni Data filed Oct. 8 2012 and assigned to the assignee of the instant patent. Such user interface may illustrate where the college fits in rankings of colleges career outcomes data of the college s graduates number of students that are interested in attending number of students and alumni that are members of the social network service and conversations in which people are engaging about the school in various chat feeds. The results of the school similarity application may be placed on the college page with links from the college page to each of the similar schools. Therefore if a prospective student is looking to select a college the prospective student accesses the school page for that university and can explore not only career outcomes data but also see what similar schools are for career outcome and at the same time listen to the chat conversations with respect to the school.

As illustrated in the social network service includes a content server module e.g. a web server module configured to send and receive information e.g. web pages or web based content with various web based communication protocols to various client applications and devices including web browser applications and or other content rendering applications. With some embodiments users interact with the service via a web browser application or some other content rendering application that resides and executes on a client computing device such as that with reference number in . Client computing devices may include personal computers as well as any of a wide number and type of mobile devices such as laptop computers tablet computers mobile phones and so forth. By interacting with the client computing device a user can request and receive web pages from the service . With some embodiments the web pages will prompt the user to provide various member profile attribute information e.g. schools and or universities attended academic degrees received academic majors employment history information and so forth which is then communicated to the service and stored in a storage device as member profile data .

Schools are represented as entities in the social graph of a member. The social graph database is updated to reflect the relationships that a member has to the various companies and educational institutions as that information is provided by the member. For example when a member indicates that she or he graduated from Harvard the member s social graph is updated so that a node representing the member will be connected via an appropriate edge type to the node representing the entity Harvard where the edge type will indicate the particular relationship e.g. graduated from . Likewise when a member indicates that she or he is employed by a given company the member s social graph is updated so that a node representing the member will be connected in this instance to the company. The edge type may indicate current or past employment as the case may be.

The service includes an external data interface to receive data from one or more externally hosted sources. For instance with some embodiments certain information about companies and or particular job titles or employment positions e.g. salary ranges may be obtained from one or more external sources. With some embodiments such data may be accessed in real time while in other embodiments the data may be imported periodically and stored locally at the social network service that is hosting the school similarity application.

With some embodiments the volume of member profile data that is available for processing is extremely large. Accordingly as shown in with some embodiments the social network service includes a data analysis and processing module which may be offline. With some embodiments this processing module may be implemented with a distributed computing system such as Apache Hadoop . The processing module obtains as input various attributes of member profile information and then processes this information to ensure that is in a usable form for the school similarity application. For instance the data normalizer module will normalize various elements of data ensuring that they conform to some standard that is used by the school similarity application. With some embodiments the various job titles that users specify for themselves are normalized by deduplicating and disambiguating the job titles. For instance in many cases the same employment position will have a different job title at different companies. Accordingly with some embodiments the data normalizer module will deduplicate job titles by mapping the different job titles as specified in users member profiles to uniquely named job titles for use with the school similarity application. In addition to deduplicating job titles with some embodiments the data normalizer will disambiguate job titles. For instance in many cases a particular job title may be used in two different industries such that the two employment positions represented by the same job title are really very different. A few examples include the job titles associate and analyst. A financial analyst may be a completely different position from a security analyst and so forth. Accordingly with some embodiments the data normalizer will analyze various elements of a user s member profile to determine the industry in which the user works such that the job title for the user can be specified uniquely for that industry.

In addition to normalizing various items of information with some embodiments the processing module obtains or otherwise derives a set of school similarity parameters from or based on profile attributes of the members for use in processing similarities as discussed below. At least with some embodiments these parameters are updated periodically e.g. daily nightly bi daily weekly every few hours etc. to take into account changes members make to their profiles.

Similarity parameters are stored for use with the school ranking module as shown in in a database with reference number . With some embodiments the similarity parameters are stored in a distributed key value storage system such as the open sourced storage system known as the Voldemort Project. Also illustrated in is a data analysis and aggregation engine with reference number which is used to process the school similarly parameters to obtain similarity results as discussed below. At run time the school similarity parameters are quickly retrieved and then used with one or more sets or one or more vectors to determine similarity of schools which may be provided to a user interface in absolute or weighted format. With some embodiments the profile attributes specified by the member for use with the school similarity application may be separately stored with run time session information as illustrated in with reference number .

As illustrated in the school similarity module includes a data analysis and aggregation engine and a user interface UI module . The data analysis and aggregation engine analyzes and aggregates the school similarity parameters as discussed in greater detail below. For example the aggregation engine constructs vectors or in some cases sets of school similarity parameters and processes them using a similarity function. The user interface module includes logic for presenting the information in various formats for example as shown in the example user interfaces presented in the attached figures.

With some embodiments the school similarity application will pre compute various items of information thereby ensuring that the school similarity application provides a real time experience to users. For example some information is processed to ensure that it is conditioned for use with the school similarity application. However with some embodiments information may be processed in real time or as requested.

Certain attribute information from the member profiles of members of a social network service are retrieved and analyzed for the purpose of normalizing the information for use with the school similarity application. For instance with some embodiments job titles may be specified as opposed to selected by the members of the social network service and therefore will not be standardized across companies and industries. As such with some embodiments a data normalizer module will analyze the profile information from which certain job titles are extracted to ascertain an industry specific job title. Accordingly with some embodiments the school similarity application will utilize a set of unique industry specific job titles. Of course other attributes may also be normalized when appropriate.

Determining schools that are similar to a given school is accomplished based on the career outcomes of graduates of the schools. As an example if one were interested in determining schools that are similar to say Stanford University in a given field of study one would process standardized information relating to career outcomes of graduates in the field of study from Stanford and process standardized information relating to career outcomes of graduates in that field of study from other universities. The results of the processing as discussed below will give a measure of similarity of other schools to Stanford for that field of study.

Similarity processing may have one component or two components. One component uses schools for which sufficient data is available such that the results of the above processing would be statistically significant. For example Schools with under ten thousand 10 000 graduates may be filtered out as yielding statistically insignificant results.

A separate component would be also to use a different comparison scheme for schools for which the social network service does not have sufficient data for the processing result to be statistically significant. An embodiment could use one or both of the components dependent on the desire of the operator of the social network service.

In one embodiment for a given school for which similar schools are desired to be determined the system may process school similarity parameters relating to members who graduated from the given school against school similarity parameters relating to members who graduated from other schools. For a graduate or member called student s in the discussion below the member s declared industry the member s current company the member s functional area the industry of the member s current company and member s current position or job title may be aggregated for use in the similarity processing. In a second embodiment the system processes the foregoing information for schools for which the system had enough data to render the results of the processing statistically significant and also processes information from schools for which the system has less data. Processing may be based on cosine similarity or other similarity functions such as Jaccard similarity.

In one embodiment the data processing by data analysis and aggregation engine and by data analysis and processing module may be as follows. Given a set A S S . . . S where each S A is a set of students s s . . . s and another set of students and the k sets in A that are most similar to .

The first step to find sets similar to is representing each student s as a professional outcome from social network service member data. In the data each member on the social network service is associated by processing in data analysis and processing module with certain professional attributes from the member s profile in member profile data as may be desired. The natural representation of a social network service member for this task is simply the set of these professional attributes with which the member is associated. So a single student s is processed by data analysis and processing module to be represented as the set i c f ci t where i is the member s declared industry c is the member s current company f is the member s functional area ci is the industry of the current company c and t is the member s current title. Using this base definition of a student the sections below describe three different methods to find the k sets in A most similar to .

In a first approach the processing by data analysis and aggregation engine represents Snot as a set of attributes but as a vector V which is a histogram over the appearances of the individual attributes. So V count i . . . count c . . . where count i is the number of students s Sthat work in industry i. Then for each Sin A using histogram vector V the similarity score with can be calculated by data analysis and aggregation engine as a simple

A second similarity metric simple represents each set Sas the set S of all professional attributes covered by the students in S or S I C F CI T where I is all industries present in S C is all companies F is all functional areas CI is all company industries and T is all titles. Then for each S A the similarity score with can simply be calculated using the

In each example for a small sample of student sets each of the above algorithms creates a ranked list of similar sets. The ranked results are then evaluated using average precision at k described by Manning C. Raghavan P. and Schutze H . Cambridge University Press 2008.

In a first example the task is to identify the most similar computer science departments to the computer science departments at ten 10 major U.S. universities Cornell University Stanford University University of Wisconsin Madison UCLA Harvard University UC Berkeley University of Texas Austin Princeton University Carnegie Mellon University and University of Washington. The goal of such a comparison is to inform prospective students of other schools they should consider in a given field. Each department is represented by the set of social network service members that received bachelor s degrees in computer science from that university. In one embodiment schools with under one hundred 100 such students are filtered out due to sparsity concerns and the remaining six hundred twenty six schools range between 100 and 5 381 students. For each of the ten schools any of the above two similarity algorithms may be used to output the top ten most similar schools. Table I shows a sample of the similarity rankings of each of the two algorithms for Stanford University.

Based on k plotted for each of the similarity algorithms for computer science departments it was found that cosine similarity seems to be the best by a small margin followed by Jaccard.

In a second example the task is to identify similar universities to the ten universities used above again from the perspective of informing prospective students. As before a school is represented by the set of all social network service members that received bachelor s degrees from the school. In one embodiment schools with under 10 000 students were filtered out leaving two hundred eleven schools ranging in number of bachelor s degree holders from 10 005 to 83 677. Again for each of the ten schools the algorithms output the ten most similar schools. Table II shows a sample of the rankings for Cornell University.

Based on k precision calculations Cosine was stronger than Jacquard by a larger margin than in the computer science task though the statistical significance of the differences depend on the size of the test set. This increased difference between the vector based methods and the set based method likely come from the larger data sets involved in the school similarity task making the counts of each professional attribute more important.

The examples above focused on the college decisions for prospective students both at the department and university level but one of ordinary skill in the art may envision more applications to which the inventive concepts are applicable. At the university level this method could be used inside a school to analyze student organizations fraternities and sports teams. Even earlier than the postsecondary level this type of analysis can be used to compare schools or even school districts in terms of long term outcomes. Having sets of similar students for all of these examples can provide key insights to students in terms of which groups they would like to be a part of and to administrators to implement new educational techniques and judge the effects.

Further representation of a student will be able to expand far beyond the five professional attributes used to characterize a student in this work. For example social network service s skills on a user s profile would make an excellent additional feature in the representation of a student but the data should not be too sparse to be used in a general technique. Beyond this relatively simple addition one can imagine adding many more complex features based on a user s activity patterns of sharing and reading content and even the structure of a user s social graph.

Results can also be presented as a weighted average of similarity among schools. As identified in the example above there are five professional attributes with which a member is associated i c f ci and t. The results may then also be presented as a weighted average. For example instead of listing the positions from 1 to 10 in Table I each school s similarity to Stanford may be given by a weighted average with say for Cosine similarity first column Table I UC Berkeley might be a 4.2 Carnegie Mellon University might be a 3.8 and so on with the higher the similarity score the more school has in common with Stanford in the current example.

Another part of the processing may be to separate the fields with respect to degrees obtained from the member s university. For example if a member obtains an associate degree a bachelor s degree a master s degree a Ph.D an MD or a JD the members may be separated into six buckets each corresponding to the degree earned and perform the similarity function with respect to corresponding groups and make a weighted average of these. That is if Stanford produced one thousand bachelor s degrees and two master s degrees among members in a given field the system does not merely add them together.

The second component alluded to above are the cases for schools where the social network service does not have enough data for the results to be statistically significant. One example is comparing a medical school with a college of a university and there are two members in the medical school and one member in the college. In this situation a different approach is used which is called attribute based similarity. Attribute based similarity is based on attributes such as field of study degree programs offered location of the school tuition whether the school is private school whether the school is a public school whether the school is a four year college or two year college and the like. Again similarity such as any of the above similarity functions may be used processing a vector based on the above attributes much like i c f ci and t used in the first component discussed above. This can provide similarity for the schools for which the social network service does not have sufficient data for use in the first component above. Stated another way the first component provides similarity based on career outcomes while the second component provides similarity based on school attributes. Since new members are joining the social network service continually and current members are updating their profile continually including updating their education from time to time schools that are in the attributes based category will move to career based outcomes category. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that some embodiments may use some combination of the above approaches.

In addition school similarity can be associated with a school page as discussed above. This enables a prospective college student looking to select a college to access the school page for the University of choice explore career outcomes data for the university and see which similar schools offer similar career outcomes. As an example illustrates a school page for Skidmore University. The school page gives substantial information about the university including at a presentation of similar schools which have been associated with the school page much the same as has been discussed above with respect to . Further while learning of certain of the schools similar to Skidmore the prospective student can listen in to the 34 new conversations in the current week at .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit an input device e.g. a keyboard and cursor control device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially indicated as and respectively within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

