---

title: Creating virtual areas for realtime communications
abstract: Examples that are described herein provide systems and methods for creating virtual areas for realtime communications. Some examples provide a quick and easy process for creating a virtual area for a set of communicants and provisioning those communicants for realtime communications in the virtual area. Some examples provide a quick and easy way for a user to wrap a realtime communications framework around a network service. Through seamless integration of realtime communications (e.g., realtime audio, video, chat, screen sharing, and file transfer) in persistent virtual areas, these examples are able to enhance and improve communicants' experiences with a network service relative to traditional browser based methods of collaborating on network service based projects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077549&OS=09077549&RS=09077549
owner: Social Communications Company
number: 09077549
owner_city: Eugene
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
Under 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 470 938 filed Apr. 1 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to the following co pending patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 630 973 filed Dec. 4 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 418 243 filed Apr. 3 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 631 008 filed Dec. 4 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 631 026 filed Dec. 4 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 418 270 filed Apr. 3 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 825 512 filed Jun. 29 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 658 filed Jul. 27 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 694 126 filed Jan. 26 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 209 812 filed Aug. 15 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 229 349 filed Sep. 9 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 399 775 filed Feb. 17 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 399 737 filed Feb. 17 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 563 088 filed Nov. 23 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 603 024 filed Feb. 24 2012.

When face to face communications are not practical people often rely on one or more technological solutions to meet their communications needs. Traditional telephony systems enable voice communications between callers. Instant messaging also referred to as chat communications systems enable users to communicate text messages in real time through instant message computer clients that are interconnected by an instant message server. Some instant messaging systems and interactive virtual reality communications systems allow users to be represented by user controllable graphical objects referred to as avatars . What are needed are improved systems and methods for realtime network communications.

In the following description like reference numbers are used to identify like elements. Furthermore the drawings are intended to illustrate major features of exemplary embodiments in a diagrammatic manner. The drawings are not intended to depict every feature of actual embodiments nor relative dimensions of the depicted elements and are not drawn to scale.

A communicant is a person who communicates or otherwise interacts with other persons over one or more network connections where the communication or interaction may or may not occur in the context of a virtual area. A user is a communicant who is operating a particular network node that defines a particular perspective for descriptive purposes.

A computer is any machine device or apparatus that processes data according to computer readable instructions that are stored on a computer readable medium either temporarily or permanently. A computer operating system is a software component of a computer system that manages and coordinates the performance of tasks and the sharing of computing and hardware resources. A software application also referred to as software an application computer software a computer application a program and a computer program is a set of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute to perform one or more specific tasks. A data file is a block of information that durably stores data for use by a software application.

The term computer readable medium refers to any tangible non transitory medium capable storing information e.g. instructions and data that is readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying such information include but are not limited to all forms of physical non transitory computer readable memory including for example semiconductor memory devices such as random access memory RAM EPROM EEPROM and Flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable hard disks magneto optical disks DVD ROM RAM and CD ROM RAM.

A window is a visual area of a display that typically includes a user interface. A window typically displays the output of a software process and typically enables a user to input commands or data for the software process. A window that has a parent is called a child window. A window that has no parent or whose parent is the desktop window is called a top level window. A desktop is a system defined window that paints the background of a graphical user interface GUI and serves as the base for all windows displayed by all software processes.

A data sink referred to herein simply as a sink is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that receives data.

A data source referred to herein simply as a source is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that originates data.

A network node also referred to simply as a node is a junction or connection point in a communications network. Examples of network nodes include but are not limited to a terminal a computer and a network switch. A server network node is a host computer on a network that responds to requests for information or service. A client network node is a computer on a network that requests information or service from a server.

A network resource is anything that can be identified by a uniform resource identifier URI and accessed over a network including an electronic document an image a source of information a service operators and operands of a mathematical equation classes properties numeric values and a collection of other resources.

A network connection is a link between two communicating network nodes. A connection handle is a pointer or identifier e.g. a uniform resource identifier URI that can be used to establish a network connection with a network resource. A network communication can include any type of information e.g. text voice audio video electronic mail message data file motion data stream and data packet that is transmitted or otherwise conveyed from one network node to another network node over a network connection.

A communicant interaction is any type of direct or indirect action or influence between a communicant and another network entity which may include for example another communicant a virtual area or a network service. Examples of types of communicant communications include communicants communicating with each other in realtime a communicant entering a virtual area and a communicant requesting access to a resource from a network service.

 Presence refers to the ability and willingness of a networked entity e.g. a communicant service or device to communicate where such willingness affects the ability to detect and obtain information about the state of the entity on a network and the ability to connect to the entity.

A realtime data stream is data that is structured and processed in a continuous flow and is designed to be received with no delay or only imperceptible delay. Realtime data streams include digital representations of voice video user movements facial expressions and other physical phenomena as well as data within the computing environment that may benefit from rapid transmission rapid execution or both rapid transmission and rapid execution including for example avatar movement instructions text chat realtime data feeds e.g. sensor data machine control instructions transaction streams and stock quote information feeds screen shares and file transfers.

A virtual area also referred to as an area or a place is a representation of a computer managed space or scene. Virtual areas typically are one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional representations although in some examples a virtual area may correspond to a single point. Oftentimes a virtual area is designed to simulate a physical real world space. For example using a traditional computer monitor a virtual area may be visualized as a two dimensional graphic of a three dimensional computer generated space. However virtual areas do not require an associated visualization. A virtual area typically refers to an instance of a virtual area schema where the schema defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of variables and the instance defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of values that have been resolved from a particular context.

A virtual area application also referred to as a virtual area specification or template is a description of a virtual area that is used in creating a virtual environment. A virtual area application typically includes definitions of geometry physics and realtime switching rules that are associated with one or more zones of the virtual area.

A virtual area based realtime communications application is a client communications application that integrates realtime audio communications and potentially other realtime communications e.g. video chat and realtime other data stream with visual presentations of interactions in a virtual area.

A virtual environment is a representation of a computer managed space that includes at least one virtual area and supports realtime communications between communicants.

A position in a virtual area refers to a location of a point or an area or a volume in the virtual area. A point typically is represented by a single set of one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional coordinates e.g. x y z that define a spot in the virtual area. An area typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of three or more coplanar vertices that define a boundary of a closed two dimensional shape in the virtual area. A volume typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of four or more non coplanar vertices that define a closed boundary of a three dimensional shape in the virtual area.

As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to the term including means including but not limited to. The term based on means based at least in part on.

The examples that are described herein provide systems and methods for creating virtual areas for realtime communications.

Some examples provide a quick and easy process for creating a virtual area for a set of communicants and provisioning those communicants for realtime communications in the virtual area.

In some examples the communicant information includes a respective communication service handle e.g. an email address or other communication service username or other identifier for each of one or more of the communicants who are to be designated as members of the virtual area.

In some examples the computer system additionally provides an interface to the client network node for specifying the communicant information. The computer system typically connects to a directory service e.g. an Active Directory service available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. USA that provides access to communicant information stored in a remote network directory. In some examples the computer system connects to the directory service using the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP . Based on user input received from the client network node the computer system queries the directory service for communicant information in the remote network directory and transmits results of the querying to the client network node for presentation in the interface. Based on user input in connection with the transmitted results of the querying the computer retrieves from the remote network directory the communicant information associated with the one or more communicants who are to be designated as members of the virtual area.

In some examples the computer system additionally generates a virtual area reference e.g. a URI to the virtual area and transmits the virtual area reference to a particular client network node. Based on receipt of a request to follow the reference from the particular client network node the computer system transmits instructions for rendering an instance of the virtual area in accordance with the virtual area template to an instance of the virtual area based realtime communications application operating on the particular network node. In some examples the computer system transmits the virtual area reference to the particular client network node in association with an invitation to enter the virtual area.

In accordance with the flow diagram of the virtual area creation service provides an area creation interface to the client network node block . In some examples the area creation interface is a web page that provides a web form for entering account creation information and a user activatable interface control e.g. a button that can be activated by the user to send the account creation information to the virtual area creation service and initiate a virtual area creation process.

Using the area creation interface the user of the client network node provides account creation information and initiates a virtual area creation process block . In some examples a web browser component of the client network node renders the area creation interface on a display receives input from the user and transmits the user input including account creation information to the virtual area creation service.

The account creation information includes communicant information which typically includes a list of the communicants who are to be designated as members of the virtual area and profile information e.g. contact information such as a communication service handle and a username for each of the members. The communicant information also may designate respective ones of the communicants as owners or co owners of particular zones e.g. offices or other types of rooms in the virtual area. In some examples the user has credentials that allow the virtual area creation service to access the communicant information from a network database that is managed by a directory service e.g. a Windows Active Directory service . The directory service exposes an API that allows the virtual area creation service to query the database for communicant information based on used specified input. The virtual area creation service presents the query results to the user in the area creation interface. The user may use the area creation interface to designate which of the communicants listed in the query results are members of the virtual area. The virtual area creation service retrieves the communicant information for the designated members from the network database and stores the retrieved information in a database in association with the virtual area. In some cases the user also is able to upload the communicant information to the virtual area creation service in the form of a data file e.g. a comma separated value file .

In some examples the account creation information also includes virtual area information e.g. a virtual area type name and size . In other examples the virtual area creation service automatically selects a default virtual area type and a size that accommodates the number of communicants who are designated as members of the virtual area.

The account creation information also may include network service information. The network service information typically includes a respective reference e.g. a URI for one or more network services e.g. a respective URL for a respective homepage of each network service or a URL for a web page tied to a particular network service project associated with the user that are to be associated with respective objects e.g. viewscreen objects in the virtual area.

The virtual area creation service creates a virtual area and stores the account creation information in association with the virtual area block . In this process the virtual area creation service typically generates a unique virtual area identifier for the virtual area and a unique virtual area customization identifier for the account information and associates the account information virtual area identifier and the virtual area customization identifier in a database. In some examples the virtual area creation service also creates an account and a respective account identifier for an organization designated by the user e.g. a business social group or other organization of which designated communicants are members and a separate account and a respective communicant identifier for each of the members of the virtual area listed in the communicant information. The virtual area creation service typically associates the communicant identifiers with the virtual area identifier e.g. stores the identifiers of the designated communicants in a member list for the virtual area and typically associates any designated network services with the virtual area e.g. by associating respective URIs for the network services with respective objects in the virtual area . In some examples the virtual area creation service associates the virtual area identifier and the virtual area customization identifier with an installation package for a virtual area based realtime communications application e.g. by incorporating the virtual area identifier and the virtual area customization identifier into a link that is embedded in the installation package .

In some examples the virtual area creation service also allows the user to send invitations to enter the virtual area to selected ones of the communicants. In his process the virtual area creation service typically displays contact information for the communicants who are associated with the virtual area in an invitation dialog box associated with the area creation interface. The invitation dialog box typically includes virtual area member fields e.g. a member name field and a field for a member s communication service handle such as an electronic mail address that are pre populated with the members contact information. The invitation dialog box includes a user control e.g. a submit button that allows the user to instruct the virtual area creation service to submit invitations to the members identified in the invitation dialog box. Each invitation typically includes a link that includes the virtual area identifier and allows each invitee to install the virtual area based realtime communications application on the invitee s client node and to cause the installed client application to navigate to an active instance of the virtual area or if the client application already is installed to cause the client application to navigate to the active instance of the virtual area. In some examples the link in the invitation directs a browser component of an invitee s client network node to a landing web page provided by the virtual area creation service for downloading the client application installation package to the invitee s client network node. In some examples the invitation links are virtual area location URLs of the type described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 694 126 filed Jan. 26 2010.

The user downloads the client application installation package to the client network node block . A browser component of the client network node typically navigates to the landing page e.g. based on a link received in an invitation to join the virtual area and downloads the installation package that is associated with the link provided by the virtual area creation service.

The user s client network node runs the installation package to install the virtual area based realtime communications application block . In this process an installer component of the installation package installs the virtual area based realtime communications application extracts the virtual area identifier and the virtual area customization identifier from the installation package and sends the virtual area identifier and the virtual area customization identifier to the virtual area creation service.

The virtual area creation service initializes the virtual area associated with the virtual area customization identifier block . In some examples the virtual area creation service selects the designated template for the virtual area and establishes a presence for the user in a particular position in the virtual area.

The virtual area creation service sends a specification of the virtual area to the user s client network node block . The virtual area creation service also typically sends the user s presence position and any network service association information to the user s client network node. In some examples the virtual area creation service also sends contact information for other communicants that are identified in the account creation information as being associated with the virtual area.

The user s client network node runs the virtual area based realtime communications application which enables realtime communications and shared interactions with other communicants in the virtual area block .

Some of the examples described herein provide a quick and easy way for a user to wrap a realtime communications framework around a network service. Through seamless integration of realtime communications e.g. realtime audio video chat screen sharing and file transfer in persistent virtual areas these examples are able to enhance and improve communicants experiences with a network service relative to traditional browser based methods of collaborating on network service based projects. For example instead of telephone based collaboration on a shared web browser view of a network service tool examples described herein enable distributed communicants to use multimodal communications to collaborate in a persistent shared context defined by a virtual area that integrates a shared view of a network service based project with a persistent record of interactions that occur in the virtual area.

In accordance with the method of the virtual environment creation service receives from a network service information for creating a virtual area block . The virtual area creation process typically is initiated by a user of the network service e.g. an individual user or an administrator or a project manager who manages a team of communicants who collaborate on a project through a tool provided by the network service through an integration interface provided by the network service. The received information typically includes information about the network service information about the user and optionally information about one or more other communicants who share the network service with the user.

The virtual environment creation service provides an installation package for installing a virtual area based realtime communications client application block . In some examples the virtual environment creation service maintains an association between the information received from the network service and the installation package so that the information can be used to customize the virtual area based realtime communications client application that is installed on a client network node.

The virtual environment creation service sends information that describes properties of the virtual area including a property value associating the network service with the virtual area to the virtual area based realtime communications client application that is installed on a client network node block . The information that is sent to the virtual area based realtime communications client application typically incorporates the network service into the virtual area to provide a seamless integration of realtime communications and shared interactions with the network service.

In accordance with the flow diagram of the network service provides an integration request interface to the client network node block . In some examples the integration request interface is a web page that is associated with an integration component of the network service . The web page provides a user activatable interface control e.g. a button that can be activated by the user to initiate a virtual area creation process.

Using the integration request interface the client network node initiates a virtual area creation process block . In some examples a web browser component of the client network node renders the integration request interface on a display receives input from the user in connection with the user activatable interface control and transmits an indication of the activation of the user activatable interface control to the network service .

Upon initiation of the virtual area creation process by the client network node the network service directs the user to the virtual area creation service and sends account creation information to the virtual area creation service block .

In some examples the user activatable interface control in the integration request interface is associated with a URL for a landing web page provided by the virtual area creation service for downloading an installation package containing the virtual area based realtime communications application. The user activatable interface control typically also is associated with the integration component of the network service which gathers account creation information and network service information relating to the network service from one or more databases that are maintained by the network service . The integration component sends to the virtual area creation service a structured version of the account creation information e.g. HTTP POST Query String JSON XML that can be interpreted by the virtual area creation service . In other examples instead of having an integration component the network service publishes an application programming interface API that allows the virtual area creation service to retrieve the communicant profile and network service information directly.

The account creation information typically includes virtual area information communicant information and network service information.

The virtual area information typically includes a virtual area type name and size. The virtual area type identifies a template for a specific type of virtual area e.g. a virtual auditorium a virtual support center a virtual center of excellence a virtual network operations center and a virtual area that models a specific workflow process . Examples of different types of virtual areas are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 603 024 filed Feb. 24 2012. The virtual area size may be specified in a variety of different ways including by specifying a respective number of zones of one or more different types e.g. individual offices conference rooms and auditorium and a total number of communicant locations available for each zone type i.e. the number of simultaneous users that can be present in the zone .

The communicant information includes a list of the communicants who are to be designated as members of the virtual area and profile information for each of the members. Communicants may be designated as members of the virtual area as a whole. Communicants also may be designated as owners or co owners of particular zones e.g. offices or other rooms in the virtual area where ownership is associated with one or more capabilities of the type described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 535 910 filed Sep. 16 2011. In some examples an owner of a room has a capability to control access to the owned zone e.g. through control of a door object . The profile information typically includes the user s contact information e.g. a communication service handle such as an electronic mail address and name . In some examples the network service also obtains communicant profile information e.g. a communication service handle and name for other communicants that are associated with the user e.g. communicants who share the same network service account with the user or are members of the same network service team as the user .

The network service information typically includes a URI for the network service e.g. a URL for a homepage of the network service or a URL for a web page tied to a particular network service project associated with the user s account . The network service information also may include a reference e.g. a URI to an iconographic representation of the network service e.g. a logo or other icon associated with the network service an identifier e.g. a partner key that identifies the network service to the virtual area creation service a definition for an object model to be used by the virtual area creation service and parameters of the landing web page provided by the virtual area creation service . In some examples the object model definition describes where an object that integrates the network service into the virtual area will appear in the virtual area. The object model definition may include a Type field identifies the network service e.g. AgileZen and a Location field identifier that identifies the location of the object e.g. ApplicationId for the virtual area ZoneName for the zone in the virtual area ObjectName for the object in the zone is used to seed an object in a zone of the virtual area. In some examples the landing page parameters include a Partner ID that identifies which partner that will be associated with the virtual area a Service Name that identifies the network service to the user visiting the landing page a Beauty Image URL for the image that promotes the virtual environment creation service with the network service a Logo URL for a logo identifying the network service a Space Name for the resulting virtual area that will be created e.g. a pre existing name for the user s team or project and a Prop ID that identifies which prop should be placed in the resulting virtual area.

The virtual area creation service stores the account creation information and provides a link for downloading a client application installation package block . The virtual area creation service extracts the account creation information from the request received from the network service generates a unique virtual area customization identifier e.g. a universally unique identifier UUID for the extracted information and stores the extracted information in a database in association with the virtual area customization identifier such that the information can be retrieved based on the virtual area customization identifier. The link for downloading the client application installation package typically is provided on a web page that is cobranded with an identifier e.g. a logo brand name or trademark of a provider of the virtual area creation service and an identifier e.g. a logo brand name or trademark of a provider of the network service. In some examples the virtual area creation service associates the virtual area customization identifier with the client application installation package e.g. by embedding it in the installation package .

The client network node downloads the installation package block . A browser component of the client network node typically downloads the installation package associated with the link provided by the virtual area creation service .

Using the installation package the client network node installs the virtual area based realtime communications application block . In this process an installer component of the installation package installs the virtual area based realtime communications application extracts the virtual area customization identifier from the installation package and sends the virtual area customization identifier to the virtual area creation service .

The virtual area creation service creates an account for the user block . In some examples the virtual area creation service uses the virtual area customization identifier received from the client network node to retrieve the profile information for the user of the client network node and network service information from the account creation information stored in the database and sends the retrieved information to the client network node . The virtual area based realtime communications client application displays on client network node a dialog box that includes account creation fields that are pre populated with the information received from the virtual area creation service . For example the dialog box may include a user name field a user electronic mail address field a network service URL field and a network service iconographic reference field that are pre populated with values received from the virtual area creation service . In some of these examples the user may modify one or more of the pre populated account creation fields. The account creation dialog box includes a Submit button that allows the user to instruct the installer component of the installation package to submit an account creation request form that includes the dialog box field values to the virtual area creation service . Based on receipt of the account creation request form the virtual area creation service creates an account for the user.

The virtual area creation service builds a virtual area that includes an association between the network service and the virtual area block . In some examples the virtual area creation service selects a specification of the virtual area associates the user with the virtual area e.g. stores an identifier of the user in a member list for the virtual area establishes a presence for the user in a particular position in the virtual area and associates the network service with the virtual area. In some of these examples the virtual area creation service associates a URI of the network service with the virtual area.

The virtual area creation service sends a specification of the virtual area to the client network node block . The virtual area creation service also typically sends the user presence position and the network service association to the client network node. In some examples the virtual area creation service also sends contact information for other communicants that are identified in the account creation information as being associated with the virtual area.

The client network node displays the virtual area based realtime communications and network service interface for realtime communications and shared interactions with the network service in the virtual area block .

The virtual area based realtime communications application typically includes functionality for inviting other communicants to the virtual area. In some examples the virtual area creation service sends contact information for other communicants that are associated with the virtual area from the virtual area creation service to the client network node . The installer component of the installation package running on the client network node displays an invitation dialog box with virtual area member fields e.g. a member name field and a field for a member s communication service handle such as an electronic mail address that are pre populated with the contact information received from the virtual area creation service . In some of these examples the user may modify one or more of the pre populated virtual area member fields. The invitation dialog box includes a Submit button that allows the user to instruct the installer component of the installation package to submit invitations to the members identified in the invitation dialog box using the invitation functionality of the virtual area based realtime communications application. Each invitation typically includes a link to the virtual area creation service that includes the virtual area customization identifier. In some examples the link in the invitation directs a browser component of an invitee s client network node to the cobranded web page provided by the virtual area creation service for downloading the client application installation package to the invitee s client network node.

In one exemplary use case the user who initiates the virtual area creation process in connection with a particular network service e.g. a project management service is a leader of a team that uses the network service to provide joint access to one or more web documents relating to a particular project e.g. a software development project . The network service maintains a list of user names and contact information e.g. email addresses for the members of the team. The network service includes this information in the account creation information that it sends to the virtual area creation service see block . The virtual area creation service stores this information in the database in association with the virtual area customization identifier so that it can be used by the team leader to invite the other members of the team to the virtual area that is created for the team.

The first client network node includes a computer readable medium or memory a processor and input output I O hardware including a display . The processor executes at least one communications application that is stored in the memory . The second client network node typically is configured in substantially the same general way as the first client network node with a computer readable medium storing at least one communications application a processor and input output I O hardware including a display .

Each of the network nodes has a respective set of one or more sources and an exemplary set of one or more sinks. Exemplary sources include an audio source e.g. an audio capture device such as a microphone a video source e.g. a video capture device such as a video camera a chat source e.g. a text capture device such as a keyboard a motion data source e.g. a pointing device such as a computer mouse and other sources e.g. file sharing source or a source of a customized real time data stream . Exemplary sinks include an audio sink e.g. an audio rendering device such as a speaker or headphones a video sink e.g. a video rendering device such as a display monitor a chat sink e.g. a text rendering device such as a display monitor a motion data sink e.g. a movement rendering device such as a display monitor and other sinks e.g. a printer for printing shared files a device for rendering real time data streams different from those already described or software that processes real time streams for analysis or customized display .

The virtual area platform includes at least one server network node that provides a network infrastructure service environment that manages sessions of the first and second client nodes in one or more virtual areas in accordance with respective virtual area applications . One or more of the virtual area applications typically are synchronous conferencing applications that support one or more types of communications between the client nodes e.g. text chat audio conferencing video conferencing application sharing and file sharing . The network infrastructure service environment typically includes one or more network infrastructure services that cooperate with the communications applications in the process of establishing and administering network connections between the client nodes and other network nodes. Among the network infrastructure services that are included in the example of the network infrastructure service environment are an account service a security service an area service a rendezvous service an interaction service and a capabilities engine. The area service administers a virtual area by managing sessions of the first and second client nodes in the virtual area in accordance with the virtual area application . Examples of the virtual area platform and the virtual area applications are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 563 088 filed Nov. 23 2011. Examples of an account service a security service an area service a rendezvous service and an interaction service are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 630 973 filed Dec. 4 2009. Examples of a capabilities engine are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 535 910 filed Sep. 16 2011.

The network infrastructure service environment maintains a relationship database that contains the records of interactions between communicants and social network profiles that are associated with respective communicants. Each interaction record describes the context of an interaction between a pair of communicants. For example in some examples an interaction record contains one or more of an identifier for each of the communicants an identifier for the place of interaction e.g. a virtual area instance a description of the hierarchy of the interaction place e.g. a description of how the interaction room relates to a larger area start and end times of the interaction and a list of all files and other data streams that are shared or recorded during the interaction. In some examples each interaction is tracked independently such that for a given pair of communicants there is a list of relationship event records each of which records a single respective interaction e.g. sent a chat message streamed audio for 93 seconds shared file X etc. . Thus for each realtime interaction the network infrastructure service environment tracks when it occurred where it occurred and what happened during the interaction in terms of communicants involved e.g. entering and exiting objects that are activated deactivated and the files that were shared. Each social network profile typically includes identity characteristics e.g. name age gender and geographic location information such as postal mailing address that describe a respective communicant or a persona that is assumed by the communicant explicit relationship information that is declared by the communicant and relationship information that is inferred from the communicant s interactions in the network communication environment .

The communications applications the area applications and the network infrastructure service environment together provide a platform referred to herein as the platform that administers the realtime connections with network nodes in a communication context that is defined by an instance of a virtual area subject to a set of constraints that control access to the virtual area instance.

The communications applications present respective views of the virtual areas in accordance with data received from the network infrastructure service environment and provide respective interfaces for receiving commands from the communicants and providing a spatial interface that enhances the realtime communications between the communicants. The communicants typically are represented in the virtual areas by respective avatars e.g. sprites which typically move about the virtual areas in response to commands that are input by the communicants at their respective network nodes. In some examples the communications applications establish realtime data stream connections between the first and second client network nodes and other network nodes sharing the virtual area based on the positions of the communicants avatars in the virtual areas as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 769 806 and 7 844 724.

Among the software components executing on the client network nodes are a user interface component and a browser component. The browser component provides a set of web browsing functions including browser functions document viewing functions and data downloading functions. The user interface component generates a graphical user interface that interfaces the user to the realtime communications and network browsing functionalities of the browser component. The browser component may be integrated into the communications applications or it may be implemented by a separate browser component e.g. a plug in that exposes an API through which the communications applications may call methods that are available from the browser component including browsing methods document viewing methods and data downloading methods.

The network connections between network nodes may be arranged in a variety of different stream handling topologies including a peer to peer architecture a server mediated architecture and hybrid architectures that combine aspects of peer to peer and server mediated architectures.

In some embodiments the server network node remotely manages client communication sessions and remotely configures audio and graphic rendering engines on the client network nodes as well as switching of data streams by sending instructions also referred to as definitions from the remotely hosted area applications to the client network nodes in accordance with the stream transport protocol described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 825 512 filed Jun. 29 2010 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. In some of these embodiments the server node s send to each of the client nodes provisioning messages that configure the client nodes to interconnect respective data streams between active ones of their complementary sources and sinks in accordance with switching rules specified in the server applications .

The platform tracks communicants realtime availabilities and activities across the different communication contexts that are defined by the area applications . This information is presented to the communicants in the form of realtime visualizations that enable the communicants to make more informed network interaction decisions e.g. when to interact with a contact and encourages the communicants to initiate interactions with other communicants and to join contexts e.g. an ongoing conversation between communicants of which the communicants otherwise would not have been aware. In some embodiments the realtime visualization includes visual cues as to the presence and activities of the communicants in the contexts of the server applications. The presentation of these visual cues typically depends on one or more of governance rules associated with the virtual areas administrative policies and user preferences including preferences regarding the exportation of the user s presence and the connection of the user to areas and other communicants which may define tiered relationship based predicates that control access to presence information and or resources on a zone by zone basis.

A virtual area may correspond to an abstract non geometric virtual area that is defined with respect to abstract coordinates or a visual virtual area that is defined with respect to one two or three dimensional geometric coordinates. Abstract virtual areas may or may not be associated with respective visualizations whereas visual virtual areas are associated with respective visualizations.

In some of the examples that are described herein the virtual areas are visual virtual areas of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 769 806 and 7 844 724. These visual virtual areas include physical geometry and collision geometry. The physical geometry describes the shape of the virtual area. The physical geometry typically is formed from surfaces of triangles quadrilaterals or polygons. Colors and textures are mapped onto the physical geometry to create a more realistic appearance for the virtual area. Lighting effects may be painted onto the visual geometry and the texture color or intensity near the lighting effects may be modified. The collision geometry describes invisible surfaces that determine the ways in which objects can move in the virtual area. The collision geometry may coincide with the visual geometry correspond to a simpler approximation of the visual geometry or relate to application specific requirements of a virtual area designer.

Some examples of the virtual area platform enable software application designers to define the semantics of position in an abstract virtual area e.g. a software application or a computer data file . Through associations with respective connection rules these position definitions can be used for example to drive connections to virtual areas entries into virtual areas connections to communicants and other sources or sinks of realtime data streams and determinations of presence data relating to communicants network resources and network services. Additional details regarding systems and methods of defining the semantics of position in abstract virtual areas are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 631 008 which was filed on Dec. 4 2009.

A virtual area typically includes one or more zones. A zone may be a rendered spatial extent a set of rules applied to a spatial extent or both. Zones may be arranged hierarchically in a virtual area with an outermost zone referred to herein as the Global Governance Zone enclosing all other zones in the virtual area. Within the Global Governance Zone there can be location zones e.g. rooms of a virtual area or smaller governance zones that enclose a group of location zones and provide regions of governance on the map. A zone definition typically also includes one or more channel definitions that describe how to create respective content specific communications channels in the zone and specify the information about the channel that is published to a client network node that becomes present in the zone. A channel is always uniquely defined point to point and is unique to a session and a virtual area application.

Examples of the types of rules that may be associated with a zone include switching rules governance rules and permission rules.

Switching rules govern realtime stream connections between network nodes that are linked to the virtual area e.g. network nodes that are associated with objects such as avatars in the virtual area . The switching rules typically include a description of conditions for connecting sources and sinks of realtime data streams in terms of positions in the virtual area. Each switching rule typically includes attributes that define the realtime data stream type to which the rule applies and the location or locations in the virtual area where the rule applies. In some examples each of the rules optionally may include one or more attributes that specify a required role of the source a required role of the sink a priority level of the stream and a requested data routing topology. In some examples if there are no explicit switching rules defined for a particular part of the virtual area one or more implicit or default switching rules may apply to that part of the virtual area. One exemplary default switching rule is a rule that connects every source to every compatible sink within an area subject to policy rules. Policy rules may apply globally to all connections between the area clients or only to respective connections with individual area clients. An example of a policy rule is a proximity policy rule that only allows connections of sources with compatible sinks that are associated with respective objects that are within a prescribed distance or radius of each other in the virtual area. The network connections between network nodes may be arranged in a variety of different data routing topologies including a peer to peer topology a mediated topology i.e. a topology in which connections between network nodes are mediated by another network node such as a server network node a client network node or a network switch and hybrid architectures that combine aspects of peer to peer and mediated architectures. In some examples the switching rules dictate how local connection processes executing on each of the network nodes establishes communications with the other network nodes based on the locations of the associated objects in the zones of the virtual area. A switching rule also may define a direct connection between network nodes or an indirect connection through an intermediate network node.

Governance rules control who has access to resources e.g. the virtual area itself regions with the virtual area and objects within the virtual area who has access to data e.g. data streams and other content that is associated with the virtual area what is the scope of that access to the data associated the virtual area e.g. what can a user do with the data and what are the follow on consequences of accessing that data e.g. record keeping such as audit logs and payment requirements . In some examples an entire virtual area or a zone of the virtual area is associated with a governance mesh that enables a software application developer to associate governance rules with a virtual area or a zone of a virtual area. This avoids the need for the creation of individual permissions for every file in a virtual area and avoids the need to deal with the complexity that potentially could arise when there is a need to treat the same document differently depending on the context.

A permission rule defines a respective capability requirement e.g. for a respective action behavior or state in terms of one or more capabilities attributes and settings which may be persistent or transient. Examples of permission rules include a rule that conditions a communicant s ability to enter a target zone on the communicant having a CanEnterZone capability for the target zone a rule that conditions the ability of a grantee communicant to open a target door of a target room on the grantee communicant having a CanOpenDoor capability for the target room and a rule that conditions the transmission of a message describing the state of a particular communicant s avatar in a zone to a recipient having a CanSeeState capability for the particular communicant in the zone. A capability provides permission for a client to perform some action within the application. For example a client may be granted the capability CanEnterZone for a specific zone within a virtual area that has been defined with that capability requirement. The client that has the capability can enter the zone whereas a client without the capability would have their RDS state change rejected when they tried to enter the zone. Examples of capabilities systems for administering permission rules are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 535 910 filed Sep. 16 2011.

As explained above the zones of a virtual area can be associated with respective switching rules each of which instructs the area service to connect sources of a respective data stream type that are associated with a designated source zone with sinks of the respective realtime data stream type that are associated with a designated sink zone. Network nodes can establish respective presences in the zones of a virtual area. In some examples network nodes associated with respective objects e.g. avatars representing the communicants operating the network nodes that can be moved to different locations in the virtual area and the network nodes are present in the zones in which the associated objects are located. The area service administers data stream connections between the network nodes based on the switching rules the respective sources and sinks associated with the network nodes and the respective zones of the virtual area in which the objects are located.

In this example the switching rules and the proximity policy rule provide respective switching conditions that determine how the connections between the avatars W X Y and Z are established.

In operation the message handling service for the virtual area sends instructions for the area client node that is associated with avatar W to connect to the real time voice video and chat streams that are sourced from the area client node that is associated with avatar X whenever avatar X is positioned within a proximity zone which defined by the prescribed distance r around avatar W. Likewise the message handling service sends instructions for the area client node that is associated with avatar X to connect to the real time voice video and chat streams that are sourced from the area client node that is associated with avatar W whenever avatar W is positioned within the prescribed distance rof avatar X. Since avatar X currently is outside the proximity zone of avatar A and vice versa the nodes associated with avatars W and X are not connected to each other in the current state shown in .

Since the zone only allows voice connections the message handling service sends instructions for the area client node that is associated with avatar Y to connect to only the real time voice stream that is sourced from the area client node that is associated with avatar Z assuming the proximity condition specified in the proximity policy rule is satisfied . Similarly the message handling service sends instructions for the area client node that is associated with avatar Z to connect to only the real time voice stream that is sourced from the area client node that is associated with avatar Y assuming the proximity condition specified in the proximity policy rule is satisfied .

Since the switching rules for zones and do not allow connections between zones and the sources and sinks that are associated with avatars W and X are not connected to any of the sources and sinks that are associated with avatars Y and Z even if the proximity condition specified in the proximity policy rule is satisfied.

In some examples a non rendered governance zone typically encompasses a collection of one or more rendered location zones. One or more control channels are defined within a governance zone. A governance zone functions as a sink for data sent on the associated control channel whereas a location zone that specifies the same control channel functions as the source of the control channel data. A user who is present in any one of the location zones within a governance zone is also present within the governance zone.

A control channel is a collection of channels that share a common definition that is managed by exactly one area zone manager which is a component of the area service examples of area zone managers are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 563 088 filed Nov. 23 2011 . A control channel is published by its corresponding zone manager when a communicant enters a zone that the zone manager has responsibility for. For example a chat control channel describes the chat channels that exist i.e. the channels that contain the chat data . When a communicant enters a room the chat control channel publishes the chat channels that are available for the room the communicant s client communicants application subscribed to a particular chat channel and the chat history was sent down to the client communications application on that channel. A single area zone manager can manage multiple control channels. When a message is passed from a message handler to a zone manager the message handler sends the zone manager the ID of the control channel on which the message came on so that the zone manager operate in the correct context defined by the control channel ID.

Alex is present in Conference Room 1 GZ1 GZ2 and DVW Office GZ3 Bob is present in Conference Room 1 GZ1 and GZ2 Joe is present in Conference Room 2 GZ1 and GZ2 Tom is present in Conference Room 2 GZ1 GZ2 and PJB Office GZ4 David is present in DVW Office GZ3 and GZ1 Paul is present in PJB Office GZ4 and GZ1 Matt is present in Strange Room 1 GZ5 and GZ1 and Chris is present in Strange Room 2 and GZ1.

There are five control channels for RDS one published by each zone except zone which does not publish any RDS data RDSChan1 is published by zone RdsChan2 is published by zone RdsChan3 is published by zone RdsChan4 is published by zone and RdsChan5 is published by zone . RDS activity in a zone is sent out on all RDS zone manager control channels for that zone and delivered to all users present in the governance zones that publish those control channels.

Activity in any of conference room 1 or conference room 2 is published on RdsChan1 which is published by an area zone manager for governance zone . Since every user in the area is in governance zone all users in the area are subscribed to RdsChan1 and see the RDS activity in Conference Rooms 1 and 2 governance zones . An area zone manager for governance zone publishes activity in Conference Room 3 governance zone on RdsChan2. In this case only Alex Bob Joe and Tom are in governance zone so only they are subscribed to the channel and see Tom s Activity in Conference Room 3. Since RdsChan1 is not a control channel for Conference Room 3 activity in Conference Room 3 is not broadcasted on that channel. Activity in the DVW Office is sent out on RdsChan3 which is published by governance zone and therefore is only visible to David and Alex since they are the only ones present in that zone. Likewise activity in the PJB Office is sent out on RdsChan4 which is published by governance zone and therefore is only visible to Paul and Tom since they are the only ones present in that zone. Activity in Strange Room 1 is not visible anywhere not even in Strange Room 1 since it doesn t specify an RDS Control Channel. Activity in Strange Room 2 is sent out on RdsChan5 which is published by governance zone and therefore is broadcast to Matt in Strange Room 1. Thus no one can see Matt s activity in Strange Room 1 not even Matt and only Matt can see Chris s activity in Strange Zone 2.

As explained above the zones of a virtual area can be associated with respective switching rules each of which instructs the area service to connect sources of a respective data stream type that are associated with a designated source zone with sinks of the respective realtime data stream type that are associated with a designated sink zone. Network nodes can establish respective presences in the zones of a virtual area. In some examples network nodes associated with respective objects e.g. avatars representing the communicants operating the network nodes that can be moved to different locations in the virtual area and the network nodes are present in the zones in which the associated objects are located. The area service administers data stream connections between the network nodes based on the switching rules the respective sources and sinks associated with the network nodes and the respective zones of the virtual area in which the objects are located.

In some examples a virtual area includes multiple zones each of which supports an independent communication session between network nodes in the zone. For example a virtual area may include zones in which audio video and text chat channel connections are established only between the sources and sinks of network nodes that are in the same zone. In these examples the spatial visualizations of the virtual area that are presented on the client network nodes show in a single view all the independent communications that are occurring in the zones of the virtual area. This allows a user to see multiple simultaneous independent communication interactions in a single view and thereby quickly learn who is meeting with whom and the contexts of those meetings as defined by the zones in which the meetings are occurring .

The people interaction toolbar includes a Chat button and an Invite button . Selection of the Chat button opens a chat panel see that enables Art to initiate a chat with other communicants who are present in the area application where Art is present i.e. Zone 1 in the illustrated example . Selection of the Invite button opens an Invite window that enables Art to invite one or more communicants to a selected virtual area location e.g. an area application or zone within that area application . Additional details regarding embodiments of the methods and functions invoked by the Chat button and the Invite button are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 373 914 filed Aug. 16 2010.

The audio interaction toolbar includes a headphone control that enables Art to toggle on and off the local speakers of the client network node and a microphone control that enables Art to toggle on and off the local microphone of the client network node.

The panel view controls include a people panel button for opening and closing the people panel a chat panel button for opening and closing the chat panel see and a viewer panel button for opening and closing the viewer panel .

The people panel depicts the realtime availabilities and activities of some or all of Art s contacts across different communication contexts. In the example shown in the people panel shows Art s communicants segmented into two zone groups and a contacts group . The zone groups correspond to respective zones of a particular one of the area applications of which Art is a member and is present. The contacts group contains all or a selected portion of Art s contacts that are not represented in any of the zone groups. The first zone group of communicants is contained within a section labeled with a header bar entitled Zone 1 that identifies all the communicants who are present in Zone 1 of the particular virtual area application. The second virtual area group of communicants is contained within a section labeled with a header bar entitled Zone 2 that identifies all the communicants who are present in Zone 2 of the particular virtual area application. The contacts group of communicants is contained within a section labeled with a header bar entitled Contacts that identifies all of Art s contacts who are not present in any of the first and second zone groups .

In the example shown in the sections of the people panel contain the graphical representations avatars of the communicants including at least one of Art or Art s contacts who currently are present in the respective zones of the particular virtual area application and the contacts section contains graphical representations avatars of all of the remaining ones of Art s contacts that are not present in any of Zone 1 and Zone 2. In the illustrated example Art and Beth are present Zone 1 Carl Dan and Ed are present in Zone 2 and Fran and Garth are contacts of Art who are not present in the virtual area containing Zone 1 and Zone 2

Each communicant is represented graphically by a respective circular sprite that is labeled with a respective user name of the communicant i.e. Art Beth Carl Dan Ed Fran and Garth . Each sprite also may be associated with a respective status line that includes additional information about the communicant. In some embodiments each status line can include one or more of the following information location of presence e.g. a server application or a zone of that sever application availability e.g. busy idle a status message e.g. Out of the office next Wednesday and the name of the client node from which the communicant is operating e.g. workstation or mobile phone . In some embodiments the ordering of the spatial positions e.g. from top to bottom of the communicant avatars in each of the sections is alphabetical by user name. In other embodiments the spatial positions of the communicant avatars in each of the server application sections are ordered in accordance with the temporal ordering of the communicants in terms of the times when the communicants established their respective presences with the server applications. The spatial positions of the communicant avatars in the contacts section may be sorted alphabetically by user name according to frequency of contact according to recentness of contact or according to other sorting or filtering criteria.

The activities of the communicants in the contexts of the area applications may be inferred from the activities on communication channels over which the respective communicants are configured to communicate. The activities on the communication channels are shown in the graphical user interface by visual cues that are depicted in association with the graphical representations of the communicants in the sections . For example the on or off state of a communicant s local speaker channel is depicted by the presence or absence of a headphones graphic on the communicant s sprite. When the speakers of the communicant who is represented by the sprite are on the headphones graphic is present see sprites Art Carl and Dan and when the communicant s speakers are off the headphones graphic is absent see sprites Beth and Ed . The on or off state of the communicant s microphone is depicted by the presence or absence of a microphone graphic on the communicant s sprite. When the communicant s microphone is on the microphone graphic is present see sprite Dan and when the communicant s microphone is off the microphone graphic is absent see sprites Art Beth Carl and Ed . The headphones graphic and the microphone graphic provide visual cues of the activity states of the communicant s sound playback and microphone devices. In addition the current activity state of a communicant s microphone channel is indicated by a dynamic visualization that lightens and darkens the communicant s avatar in realtime to reflect the presence or absence of audio data on the microphone channel. Thus whether or not their local speakers are turned on communicants can determine when another communicant is speaking by the blinking of the coloration of that communicant s avatar. The activity state of a communicant s text chat channel is depicted by the presence or absence of the hand graphic adjacent the communicant s sprite see sprite Beth . Thus when a communicant is transmitting text chat data to another network node the hand graphic is present and when a communicant is not transmitting text chat data the hand graphic is not present. In some embodiments text chat data is transmitted only when keyboard keys are depressed in which case the visualization of the communicant s text channel appears as a flashing on and off of the hand graphic .

In the example shown in members of an area application are able to receive the visual cues of the communicant activities occurring in the contexts defined by the zones of that area application whether or not the members are present in the zone in which the communicant activities are occurring. Thus the graphical user interface that is presented to Art shows visual cues indicating the communication channel activities of the communicants present in Zone 1 where Art is present and the communication channel activities of the communicants present in Zone 2 where Art is not present .

Additional details regarding embodiments of the people panel are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 373 914 filed Aug. 16 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009.

The navigation area includes forward and back buttons a location bar a Go button and a reload button . The forward and back buttons enable a user to traverse a navigation stack of uniform resource identifier URI addresses e.g. a linked list of previously visited URLs . The location bar allows a user to specify a URI address of a network resource and the Go button invokes one or more browser functions on the client network node to navigate to the specified URI address and render the network resource at the specified URI address in the display area . The reload button invokes one or more browser functions on the client network node to reload the graphic representation of the network resource currently displayed in the display area .

The display area contains the rendered depictions of network resources located at the URI address specified in the navigation area . In the example shown in the viewer panel is in the browser view mode and shows a rendered view of the network resource a web page in this example that is located at the URL https www.sococo.com home.php as indicated in the location bar . In the illustrated example the display area shows a web page that includes a header section a top navigation bar a side navigation bar a contents section a notices section and a navigation links section .

In addition to the control and panel elements of the graphical user interface e.g. the people panel the viewer panel the people interaction toolbar the audio interaction toolbar and the panel view controls the graphical user interface includes a Share button and a set of Viewer Panel control buttons including a Map button a Browse button and four View Screen buttons . The Share button initiates a screen share of the contents of the display area of the viewer panel in connection with a view screen object in a virtual area. These contents include for example renderings of any information that is received by the browser component in connection with the network resource identified in the location bar and a document or application that is being shared by the user in connection with a view screen object in a virtual area. The Map button sets the view presented in the viewer panel to a map view of the virtual area. The Browse button sets the view presented in the viewer panel to a browser view. Each of the four View Screen buttons sets the viewer panel to display the content being shared in connection with a corresponding one of the view screens in the virtual area.

Each of the communicants who is present in the virtual area is represented graphically by a respective avatar that corresponds to the communicant s avatar that is shown in the people panel . The virtual area is represented graphically by a two dimensional top view of a rectangular space. In some examples the communicants sprites automatically are positioned in predetermined locations or seats in the virtual area when the communicants initially enter the virtual area.

The virtual area includes four view screen objects and a table object . Communicants interact with the objects by selecting them with an input device e.g. by single clicking on the objects with a computer mouse touch pad touch screen or the like .

The view screen objects are associated with application sharing functionality of the platform that enables communicants to share applications operating on their respective client network nodes. The application sharing functionality is invoked by activating a view screen object e.g. by single clicking the view screen object with an input device . In some embodiments the platform provides visual cues that indicate whether or not a communicant is sharing an application over an application sharing channel. In response to a communicant s selection of the view screen object the communicant s sprite automatically is moved to a position in the graphical representation of the virtual area that is adjacent the view screen object. The position of a communicant s sprite adjacent the view screen object indicates that the communicant currently is sharing or is about to share an application with the other communicants in the virtual area. In addition the avatar of each communicant who is viewing a shared application including the sharing communicant is depicted with a pair of eyes to indicate that the represented communicants are viewing the content being shared in connection with the view screen objects see e.g. the avatars of Beth and Dan in . The graphical depiction of view screen object is changed depending on whether or not an active application sharing session is occurring. For example the depicted color of the view screen object may change from a brighter color during an active application sharing session to a darker color when there is no application sharing taking place. Examples of the application sharing process are described in connection with FIGS. 26 28 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 418 270 filed Apr. 3 2009.

Any of the viewscreen props may be associated with respective uniform resource identifiers URIs of network resources e.g. network services to enable communicants to interact with and share information associated with the network resources in connection with the viewscreen objects as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 399 737 filed Feb. 17 2012. In the example shown in the viewscreen object is associated with the URL of a network service and an iconographic representation of the network service represented by the label Web Service Icon is displayed in association with the viewscreen object .

The table object is associated with file sharing functionality of the platform that enables communicants to upload computer data files to server storage in association with the virtual area and to download data files that are associated with the virtual area from the server storage to the respective client network nodes. In example shown in there are two document objects that are associated with the table object . The document objects are linked to respective documents that are have been shared in the virtual area and stored in server storage. Any of the document objects may be selected by a communicant e.g. by double clicking the document object with an input device such as a computer mouse to initiate downloading of the associated document to the communicant s client network node. Additional details regarding the structure function and operation of the table prop may be obtained from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009.

In the Map view mode the navigational controls of the graphical user interface allow the user to traverse a path through the virtual environment in accordance with a navigational model that is tied to the underlying spatial hierarchy of virtual area locations and objects within the locations. The network infrastructure service environment records the path traversed by the user. In some embodiments the network infrastructure service environment records a history that includes a temporally ordered list of views of the virtual area locations that are presented to the user as the user navigates through the virtual area. Each view typically corresponds to a view of a respective renderable zone of the virtual area. In these embodiments the navigation controls enable the user to move to selected ones of the zones in the history. The navigation controls also include a graphical representation of a depth path that shows the location in the spatial hierarchy that corresponds to the user s current view of the virtual area. In some embodiments the graphical representation of the depth path includes a respective user selectable link to a respective view of each of the preceding levels in the spatial hierarchical model of the virtual area above the current view. The back button corresponds to a backward control that enables the user to incrementally move backward to preceding ones of the zones in the history of the zones that were traversed by the user. The forward button corresponds to a forward control that enables the user to incrementally move forward to successive ones of the zones in the history of the zones that were traversed by the user. Some examples additionally include a placemarks button that activates a placemarking control for storing links to zones and a placemark navigation control for viewing a list of links to previously placemarked zones. In response to user selection of the placemarking control a placemark is created by storing an image of the location shown in the current view in association with a hyperlink to the corresponding location in the virtual area. In response to a user selection of the placemark navigation control a placemarks window is presented to the user. The placemarks window includes live visualizations showing e.g. where communicants are located and visual cues of their realtime activities of all locations that have been placemarked by the user. Each of the images in the placemarks window is associated with a respective user selectable hyperlink. In response to user selection of one of the hyperlinks in the placemarks window a view of the virtual area corresponding to the location associated with the selected hyperlink is automatically displayed in the browsing area of the graphical user interface . Some examples include home button corresponds to a control that returns the user to a view of a designated home location in the virtual environment. Additional details regarding the structure function and operation of examples of the navigation controls are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009.

Activating the chat panel button or the chat button opens the chat panel . When the chat panel button is activated the chat panel opens to show a chat interface for a persistent virtual chat area for interactions occurring in connection with a respective virtual area. In the example shown in Art activated the chat panel button at the time he was present in Zone 1 therefore the chat panel shown in contains the persistent virtual chat area for text chat interactions occurring in connection with Zone 1. When the chat button is activated on the other hand the chat panel opens to show a chat interface for a persistent personal virtual area for interactions between Art and a selected one of the communicants. Examples of personal virtual areas are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 658 filed Jul. 27 2009.

The chat interface of the chat panel includes a chat log area a text box and a Send button . The chat panel also includes a minimap view of the current zone zone 1 in which the user is present. In this example the user may enter text messages in the text box and activate the Send button to transmit the text messages to the other communicants who are present in the zone.

The user may enter text messages in the text box and transmit the text messages to the other communicants who are in the same zone by selecting the Send button . The chat log area displays a log of current and optionally prior events that are associated with the current zone. An exemplary set of events that may be displayed in the chat log area include text messages that the user has exchanged with other communicants in the current zone changes in the presence status of communicants in the current zone changes in the speaker and microphone settings of the communicants in the current zone and the status of the object in the zone discussed below including references to any applications and data files that are shared in connection with the objects. In the illustrated embodiments the events are labeled by the communicant s name followed by content associated with the event e.g. a text message or a description of the event.

The chat panel provides a context for organizing the presentation of the events that are displayed in the chat log area . For example in the illustrated embodiment each of the displayed events is labeled with a respective tag that visually correlates with the appearance of the sprite of the communicant that sourced the displayed event. In particular each of the events that is sourced by a particular one of the communicants is labeled with a respective icon having a visual appearance e.g. color code or design pattern that matches the visual appearance of that communicant s sprite. In this example the color of the icons matches the color of the body of Art s sprite and the color of the icon matches the color of the body of Beth s sprite.

In some examples the platform enables a communicant to associate objects in the zones of a virtual area with network resources and maintains those associations across sessions to provide zones with persistent network resource associations that can be accessed immediately upon entry into the zones. In these examples an object e.g. a view screen object in a zone of a virtual area has a configurable uniform resource identifier URI property that a communicant can configure to associate a network resource with the object and thereby create spatial bookmarks for the network resources at the respective object locations in the zones of the virtual area. In this way a communicant can customize a zone of a persistent virtual area with any type of network accessible resources to suit any particular purpose and then share the network resources with other communicants in the zone. For example communicants can associate view screen objects in a zone of a virtual area with respective cloud based services that relate to a particular project or business function e.g. finance accounting software development project management . The platform stores persistent records of the state of each zone of the virtual area including the service associations with objects and the communicant interactions e.g. chat recordings shared documents that occurred in the zone so that each time the communicants enter the zone they can continue where they left off with single click access to the services that are relevant to the particular project or business function associated with the zone. Being able to place and keep services running in a zone of a virtual area means that meetings start with live application information e.g. network resource information stored documents prior chat conversations and recorded audio conversations already in the zone and can restart where communicants left a discussion at the end of the previous meeting. Additional details of examples of processes for associating objects in a zone with network resources are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 399 775 filed Feb. 17 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 399 737 filed Feb. 17 2012.

