---

title: Display for embedded intelligence
abstract: A system for displaying an embedded intelligence applet comprises a processor and a memory. The processor is configured to provide display information to display in the embedded intelligence applet window and to provide an indication to display the embedded intelligence applet window in an opaque mode. The processor is configured to determine whether an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window is received. The processor is configured to provide an indication to display the embedded intelligence applet window in a partially transparent mode in the event that an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window is received. The memory is coupled to the processor and is configured to provide the processor with instructions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262035&OS=09262035&RS=09262035
owner: Workday, Inc.
number: 09262035
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
A business manager makes many complex decisions over the course of each day. Enterprise business software has come to be relied upon for assisting a manager with his decision making by presenting him with data relevant to these decisions. For example a manager who is considering giving an employee a raise might want to see data regarding the amount and timing of raises given to employees in the past sorted by business division and employee performance level. Typically separate software applications or separate parts of a single application are used for entering business decisions and for viewing data relevant to those business decisions. It can become awkward for the user to coordinate task and application switching in order to view the desired data while accessing the necessary data entry fields.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A display for embedded intelligence is disclosed. A system for displaying an embedded intelligence applet includes a processor configured to provide display information to display in the embedded intelligence applet window. The processor is further configured to provide an indication to display the embedded intelligence applet window in an opaque mode. The processor is further configured to determine whether an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window is received. The processor is further configured to provide an indication to display the embedded intelligence applet window in a partially transparent mode. The system additionally comprises a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions.

In some embodiments a software application comprises a database a set of business processes and a set of embedded intelligence applets. Each business process modifies or accesses data stored in the database to accomplish a business process e.g. hire an employee modify the salary of an employee give an employee a promotion etc. . Business processes can receive input data e.g. employee name new employee salary new employee title etc. from a business process user. Each embedded intelligence applet prepares a report on data stored within the database to assist a business manager with the decisions made in the business processes. An embedded intelligence applet may include a set of prompts variables that need to be supplied to the embedded intelligence applet in order for it to run. The embedded intelligence applets are made available automatically for the user of the business process so that no switching to another application is necessary in order for the functionality of the embedded intelligence applet to be visible available or interactive for the user. In various embodiments the embedded intelligence applet is automatically triggered is automatically made visible is automatically made to be interactive with the user is automatically launched is automatically updated based on new values of input or updated input or any other appropriate trigger. When an embedded intelligence applet is added to a business process the prompts are associated with business process exposed fields. Business process exposed fields comprise data fields made available by the business process for use by embedded intelligence applets. Upon execution of the business process and the embedded intelligence applet data for the embedded intelligence applet prompts is received from the associated business process exposed fields. For example an embedded intelligence applet takes as an input an output provided by exposed fields that are available from a business process. These fields comprise available variables from the business process that can be output to provide input values to the embedded intelligence applet. The embedded intelligence applet retrieves data e.g. from a data storage or from a database using a search based on an input object an attribute of the input object or an attribute of an object related to an input object etc. and prepares a report based on data received from the business process and on the retrieved data. Embedded intelligence applets are thus able to provide supplementary information to assist in the execution of a business process. In some embodiments the supplementary information available to the embedded intelligent applet comprises data available to the user according the security policy e.g. personal data or data associated with the user data available to the role the user is associated with etc. .

In some embodiments the business process with its associated embedded intelligence applet has the ability to add remove steps in the business process and yet still allow the embedded intelligence applet to trigger where their prompts have been satisfied e.g. the linkage from exposed fields of the business process are output or transferred to the embedded intelligence applet as inputs .

In some embodiments the business process with its associated embedded intelligence applet has the ability to add remove steps in the business process and yet still allow the embedded intelligence applet to trigger where their prompts have been satisfied e.g. the linkage from exposed fields of the business process are output or transferred to the embedded intelligence applet as inputs .

In some embodiments a display for embedded intelligence comprises a display for a business process. In some embodiments a display for a business process comprises displayed business process data and displayed business process data entry fields. In some embodiments a display for embedded intelligence additionally comprises an embedded intelligence applet display button. In some embodiments when an indication to the embedded intelligence applet display button is received an embedded intelligence applet window is displayed. An embedded intelligence applet window displays one or more embedded intelligence applets e.g. embedded intelligence applets providing supplementary information to assist in the execution of a business process . In some embodiments when the embedded intelligence applet window is displayed it is displayed in an opaque mode e.g. obscuring information displayed by windows behind it . In some embodiments when an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window is received the embedded intelligence applet window is displayed in a partially transparent mode e.g. revealing information displayed by windows behind it . In some embodiments when an indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window is received the embedded intelligence applet window is displayed in the opaque mode.

In some embodiments the embedded intelligence applet displays information within a pre defined area on the main transaction display or window e.g. not in a separate window . In some embodiments content of the embedded intelligence applet is updated automatically for example when relevant fields are changed on the underlying business process edit page e.g. by a user editing them embedded applets are updated to reflect the change in real time. In some embodiments a user can hide deactivate individual embedded intelligence applet e.g. worklet in the applet window When a hidden applet changes an indication is shown to the user that the applet changed. A user may click on a button to show reactivate the updated applet.

Database system administrator comprises a database system administrator administrating database system . In some embodiments database system administrator comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In some embodiments administrating database system comprises preparing configuring or modifying database system as desired by database system users e.g. database system user . In some embodiments database system administrator configures and modifies database system in ways not available to database system user . Database system user comprises a database user accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises a user who uses a user interface e.g. a keyboard a touch screen a display etc. to interact with database system . In various embodiments the user interface is associated with a desktop computer a laptop computer a local terminal or any other appropriate system with a user interface. In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In various embodiments there are 1 2 4 13 22 115 or any other appropriate number of database system users accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments each database system user only has access to their own data stored on database system and is able to utilize database system as though they are the sole database system user e.g. a person user a member of a company user etc. . In some embodiments database system user configures services on database system . In some embodiments the ability of database system user to configure database system is limited compared with that of database system administrator . In some embodiments a database system user e.g. database system user comprises a person accessing database system via a user interface e.g. a web page. In some embodiments a database system user comprises an automated system accessing database system via a machine interface e.g. a public application programming interface API .

In the example shown database management system comprises business process embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet . In some embodiments database management system includes more than one business process. In various embodiments database management system comprises 1 2 4 7 11 14 22 315 1009 3021 or any other appropriate number of business processes. A business process comprises software for executing a business task e.g. hiring an employee modifying the salary of an employee giving an employee a promotion transferring an employee between business divisions or any other appropriate business task. Business processes contain a number of fields to be filled out in the course of executing the business process e.g. employee name new employee salary new employee title new employee business division or any other appropriate business process field. In some embodiments a business process is broken into a set of pages each comprising a subset of the business task and data entry fields. Embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet communicate with business process . Database management system comprises any appropriate number of embedded intelligence applets. Each embedded intelligence applet e.g. embedded intelligence applet embedded intelligence applet communicates with any appropriate number of business processes e.g. business process . In various embodiments database management system comprises 1 3 4 6 12 22 222 515 or any other appropriate number of embedded intelligence applets. An embedded intelligence applet comprises software for analyzing data and preparing a report embedded with a business process. In some embodiments an embedded intelligence applet is referred to as a worklet. When a database system user e.g. database system user of accesses the database system e.g. database system of and executes a business process e.g. business process embedded intelligence applets communicating with the business process e.g. embedded intelligence applet embedded intelligence applet are shown embedded in the business process. The embedded intelligence applets are designed to provide the database system user with intelligence in order to assist with decisions made during the execution of the business process. For instance a salary modification business process requires the database system user to input the new salary as part of the process thus the user must decide what the new salary ought to be. An embedded intelligence applet embedded with the salary modification process prepares information relevant to that decision e.g. job performance of the employee recent salary modifications of employees in the same division average time between salary modifications and time since the employee s last salary modification or any other appropriate information.

In some embodiments the embedded intelligence applet provides information by receiving the input information associated with the process and looks for related information in the database. For example in the event that a raise process is being used the applet provides salary data for employees with the same job classification e.g. laterally relevant data provides employee salary data e.g. background data or vertically relevant data etc. provides employee data for those with salary similar to the contemplated raise salary e.g. forecasted laterally relevant data or any other appropriate data. In some embodiments related information comprises results from a search on a database e.g. an object database . In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object received as an input object. In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object related to the input object.

Embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive data from business process as part of their data analysis and report preparation. For instance when a user enters an employee name into a modify employee salary process embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive the employee name and can execute further data analysis and report preparation based on it e.g. finding the performance records of the employee and presenting them to the database user. In some embodiments database management system comprises a processor configured to receive an input data for a business process e.g. business process receive a stored data e.g. from business data storage for an embedded intelligence applet e.g. embedded intelligence applet or embedded intelligence applet and determine display information for the embedded intelligence applet based at least in part on the input data and the stored data.

In the example shown business process additionally includes embedded intelligence applet display button . In some embodiments when an indication is received by embedded intelligence applet display button embedded intelligence applet window is displayed. Embedded intelligence applet window comprises information related to embedded intelligence applets e.g. embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet of . In the example shown embedded intelligence applet window comprises embedded intelligence applets related to a modify base salary business process. Employee type embedded intelligence applet displays the employee type related to the employee indicated in employee name field . Salary frequencies embedded intelligence applet displays salary frequencies for the employee type shown by employee type embedded intelligence applet . Salary history embedded intelligence applet comprises a salary history for the employee indicated in employee name field and is shown minimized. Salary modification chart embedded intelligence applet comprises a modification chart of salaries of employees of the employee type shown by employee type embedded intelligence applet and is shown minimized. In the example shown embedded intelligence applet window displays in an opaque mode e.g. obscuring information displayed behind it . In some embodiments indicating to activate a window other than embedded intelligence applet window causes an indication to display embedded intelligence applet window in a transparent mode e.g. revealing information displayed behind it . In some embodiments when embedded intelligence applet window is displaying in a transparent mode bringing an indicator e.g. a mouse cursor over embedded intelligence applet window without making an indication e.g. a click causes embedded intelligence applet window to display in an opaque mode for as long the indicator remains over embedded intelligence applet window . In some embodiments indicating to activate embedded intelligence applet window causes a reindication to display embedded intelligence applet window in an opaque mode.

In some embodiments a user updates information in the business process which causes an automatic update to the embedded intelligence applet for example an exposed field of the business process is updated which is input to the embedded intelligence applet that in turn processes its display output accordingly e.g. performing a search of the database based on the update determining a new table graph etc. . In some embodiments the embedded intelligence display is hidden or transparent for the automatic update and an indication is displayed e.g. a flashing icon a button etc. to the user to indicate that the embedded intelligence display has been updated and should be viewed. In some embodiments the display is unhidden or made opaque by a trigger e.g. pressing a button using a mouse button clicking on an icon etc. .

In it is determined whether an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window has been received. In some embodiments an indication to activate the window other than the embedded intelligence applet window comprises a click on the window other than the embedded intelligence applet window. In some embodiments the window other than the embedded intelligence apple window comprises a business process window. In some embodiments the window other than the embedded intelligence applet window comprises a text entry window. If it is determined that an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window has not been received repeats. If it is determined that an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window has been received control passes to . In an indication to display the embedded intelligence applet window in a partially transparent mode e.g. a partially transparent mode as described in the section regarding is provided. In an indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window is received. In some embodiments an indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window comprises a temporary indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window e.g. the embedded intelligence applet window is only reactivated for as long as the indication is received . In some embodiments a temporary indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window comprises moving the cursor over the embedded intelligence applet window. In some embodiments an indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window comprises a permanent indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window e.g. the embedded intelligence applet window is reactivated until an indication to activate a window other than the embedded intelligence applet window is received . In some embodiments a permanent indication to reactivate the embedded intelligence applet window comprises a click on the embedded intelligence applet window. In a reactivation indication to make the embedded intelligence applet window redisplay in the opaque mode is provided.

In some embodiments a display of an embedded intelligence applet is embedded in the display of the business process. Embedded intelligence applet information is updated automatically in the event that an indication is received that there is an update to the embedded intelligence applet information. The display information is updated automatically regardless of whether the display is currently visible or hidden. In some embodiments the embedded display information is hidden in the event that the business process information is edited. In some embodiments in the event that the embedded intelligence applet information is updated an indicator indicates e.g. an icon a blinking button etc. that the embedded intelligence applet information has been updated. In some embodiments the embedded intelligence applet information is displayed in the event an icon is selected or a button is pushed.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

