---

title: Product searching in a retail environment
abstract: In one embodiment, one or more search criteria are received from a mobile device. In response, one or more products corresponding to the search criteria are extracted. Further, a plurality of factors associated with the one or more products are retrieved and weightages are assigned to the plurality of factors. Furthermore, product scores of the one or more products are determined based on the plurality of factors and the weightages. Based on the product scores, the one or more products are presented to assist product searching in retail environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671027&OS=08671027&RS=08671027
owner: SAP AG
number: 08671027
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120522
---
Embodiments generally relate to product searching and more particularly to methods and systems to assist product searching in a retail environment.

Retail stores include numerous products from different manufactures and similar products may have different prices. Searching for a desired product in retail stores is a common but key activity of a customer. Further searching and selecting a right product may be a hectic and time consuming activity especially in large supermarket stores. Currently to enhance shopping experience methods such as providing an electronic list of products on a kiosk and providing a bar code scanner to view the price of products are used. However such methods may not optimize the time spent by the customer in searching for the desired product. It is important for retail stores to provide customer satisfaction and offer better services that help customers find a desired product.

Embodiments of techniques to assist product searching in a retail environment are described herein. According to various embodiments the retail environment may be an environment in which different products from different manufacturers are offered for sale. The products may be related to one or more product types. For example the product type may be products associated with but are not limited to consumer electronics e.g. laptops televisions music players and refrigerators books and magazines e.g. audio books biography autobiography and fiction software applications e.g. operating systems picture editing applications and home or business use applications toys and games.

According to one embodiment search criteria are received to search for a desired product. In response products corresponding to the search criteria are retrieved. Further product scores of the retrieved products are determined and based on the product scores the products are presented to a customer. Further the application of searching products in the retail environment may be performed on a mobile device of the customer. Thereby with few steps the customer will be aware of details of the products. Therefore the process of searching products in the retail environment may become easier.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In one embodiment the graphical user interface of the mobile device provides an option for the customer to provide search criteria e.g. associated with a product. For example the search criteria may include but is not limited to the product type e.g. laptop a television a music player a refrigerator audio books biography autobiography fiction monthly magazines weekly magazines and the like product price range brand names color and size. The step is described with an example in .

Further the processor assists the customer in product searching in the retail environment. In one exemplary embodiment the processor may reside in the mobile device . In another exemplary embodiment the processor may reside in other remote computer system. The computer system is described in greater detail in . At step the products corresponding to the search criteria are extracted from an in memory computing database e.g. HANA of SAP . In one exemplary embodiment the in memory computing database may include a list of products and factors associated with the products facilitating real time analytics. Further the in memory computing database is at a physical location i.e. at the retail store.

At step factors associated with the products are retrieved and weightages to the factors are assigned e.g. step . For example factors may include but are not limited to price discounts ratings and energy stars associated with the products. Based on the factors weightages may be assigned. Furthermore at step the product scores for the extracted products are determined. For example the product scores are determined using the factors and the weightages associated with the products. At step the products are presented on the graphical user interface of the mobile device based on the product scores. The steps to are described with an example in .

At step the one or more products corresponding to the search criteria are extracted. For example products such as PRODUCT A 1500 USD PRODUCT B 2000 USD PRODUCT C 2500 USD and PRODUCT D 3000 USD corresponding to the search criteria mentioned in step are extracted. In one exemplary embodiment the products are extracted from an in memory computing database which provides real time analysis. At step a plurality of factors associated with the products is retrieved. The factors may include but are not limited to a price discount ratings and energy stars associated with the products. In one exemplary embodiment the factors associated with the products are specified by a concerned authority of a retail shop and are stored in the in memory computing database. The examples of the factors are depicted in Table 1.

In one exemplary embodiment the ratings corresponding to the products may be retrieved from reviews associated with the products using a natural language processing NLP technique. Higher the ratings higher the quality of the product and vice versa. Further the energy stars define energy efficiency which helps to protect the environment through energy efficient products. Higher the energy stars the product is considered environment friendly and vice versa.

At step weightages for the one or more factors are assigned. In one embodiment the weightages are intelligently assigned based on the factors as depicted in Table 2. For example for 0 10 price discount a weightage of 1 may be assigned. For 11 20 price discount a weightage of 2 may be assigned. Further for 21 30 price discount a weightage of 3 may be assigned and for 31 40 price discount a weightage of 4 may be assigned and so on.

At step the product scores of the one or more products are determined based on the plurality of factors and the weightages. In exemplary embodiment the product scores are determined using a mathematical function as in equation 1 . Product score Factor 1 corresponding weightage of Factor 1 Factor 2 corresponding weightage of Factor 2 . . . Factor corresponding weightage of Factor 3 1 

For example the product scores of the products depicted in Table 2 are determined as shown in equation 2A 2B 2C and 2D . Product score of PRODUCT 20 2 3 2 4 3 58 2A Product score of PRODUCT 25 3 4 3 3 2 93 2B Product score of PRODUCT 15 2 5 3 4 3 57 2C Product score of PRODUCT 35 4 4 3 3 2 158 2D 

Although equation 1 is one way of determining the score other mathematical techniques can be used to determine product scores using the product type and the factors associated with the products. At step the one or more products are presented by arranging the products based on the product scores. In one exemplary embodiment the products are arranged on a display of the mobile device using techniques such as but not limited to a dust and magnet information visualization technique. Presentation of the products based on the product scores is described in greater detail in .

Further the graphical user interface includes a second portion for displaying the extracted products of step of . For example the products e.g. PRODUCT A PRODUCT B PRODUCT C and PRODUCT D corresponding to product type laptop within the price range 1000 USD to 3000 USD and of various brands are extracted and displayed in the second portion .

Furthermore the graphical user interface includes a third portion for displaying the products based on product scores as in step of . For example considering the product scores of equations 2A to 2D the products are displayed in the third portion using visualization techniques such as but not limited to a dust and magnet information visualization technique. The dust and magnet visualization technique uses a magnet metaphor in which the products are represented as particles of iron dust and magnet e.g. laptop represents the product type. The product score of PRODUCT D e.g. is higher when compared to other products e.g. PRODUCT A PRODUCT B and PRODUCT C . Therefore PRODUCT D is enhanced e.g. enhanced with greater size different color and the like and placed closer to the laptop . Further since the product score of PRODUCT C e.g. 57 is lower when compared to other products e.g. PRODUCT A PRODUCT B and PRODUCT D the PRODUCT C is placed farther from laptop . Similarly the PRODUCT A e.g. 58 and the PRODUCT B e.g. 93 are placed in the third portion . In one exemplary embodiment when the search criteria are modified the placement of the particles e.g. products may change accordingly.

In one exemplary embodiment top scored products may be presented at a first change in response to a motion of a mobile device. For example when the first change in motion of the mobile device is received the PRODUCT D and PRODUCT B may be presented. Further upon receiving second change in motion of the mobile device the other products such as PRODUCT A and PRODUCT C may be presented. In one exemplary embodiment when the customer scrolls over the displayed products the details of the product such as but not limited to a price of the product location at which the product is placed in the retail store manufacturing date and expiry date may be displayed. Therefore the activity of searching products in the retail environment becomes easier as the products are displayed based on the search criteria and various factors associated with the products. Further employing experts for educating the customers about the products and the product details may not be necessary.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in detail.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the one or more embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the one or more embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

