---

title: Methods and apparatus for auditing signage
abstract: Example methods and apparatus for auditing signage are disclosed. A disclosed example method involves directing an operator to a signage location and capturing an image of a signage at the signage location. The example method also includes detecting an actual characteristic of the signage based on the image and comparing the actual characteristic to an expected characteristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649610&OS=08649610&RS=08649610
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 08649610
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 101 033 filed on Apr. 10 2008. The entire contents of the above identified patent application is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to media exposure measurement systems and more particularly to methods and apparatus for auditing signage.

Product manufacturers service providers and advertisers are often interested in consumer exposure to advertisements such as billboards signs and or other indoor and or outdoor public advertising. Known techniques for monitoring consumer exposure to advertisements include conducting surveys and or counting consumers or quantifying amounts of traffic that pass by advertisements. To develop such surveys and to correlate passersby traffic with advertisement content information about the advertisements of interest should be accurately recorded to generate meaningful exposure study results.

It is often difficult to obtain accurate records that correctly reflect content location etc. of physical advertisements e.g. billboard media poster media mural media etc. because such advertisements are constantly changing and are owned by many different advertisement media companies some of which may not keep accurate records of their displayed advertisements and or may not provide access to their records. In some instances government agencies may sometimes conduct surveys of advertisement media locations within different municipalities. However such survey information may quickly become outdated and or inaccurate and or may not contain as much detailed information as would be desired to conduct advertisement exposure studies.

Media site data stored in the example site database of may be used by for example outdoor advertisers to measure and or establish with scientific and verifiable accuracy the reach of their outdoor media sites. For example in a study to determine consumer exposure to advertisement sites a study participant and or respondent carries or wears a satellite positioning system SPS receiver not shown that periodically e.g. every 4 to 5 seconds acquires and receives a plurality of signals transmitted by a plurality of SPS satellites and uses the plurality of received signals to calculate a current geographic location i.e. a position fix for the respondent and a current time of day. The SPS receiver sequentially stores the result of each position fix e.g. geo code location data and the time of day and if desired the date for later processing by a computing device not shown . Example SPS receivers operate in accordance with one or both of the U.S. Global Positioning System GPS or the European Galileo System. The computing device correlates and or compares the stored sequence of position fixes with locations of media sites represented by the site database to determine if one or more of the media sites should be credited as having been exposed to a person i.e. whether it is reasonable to conclude that the wearer of the monitoring device i.e. the SPS receiver was exposed to the one or more media sites . Example systems and methods to determine media site exposure are described in International Publication No. WO 2006 015339 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Improving the Accuracy and Reach of Electronic Media Exposure Measurement Systems and filed on Jul. 29 2005 International Publication No. WO 2006 015188 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Improving the Accuracy and Reach of Electronic Media Exposure Measurement Systems and filed on Jul. 29 2005 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2004 0080452 entitled Satellite Positioning System Enabled Media Measurement System and Method and filed on Oct. 16 2003. International Publication No. WO 2006 015339 International Publication No. WO 2006 015188 and U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2004 0080452 are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The accuracy of media exposure measurement systems and methods depends upon the accuracy and or completeness of the media site data stored in the site database . For example if the location of a particular media site stored in the site database is in error the media site may be credited with exposures that have not actually occurred and or may not be credited with exposures that have occurred. Accordingly the example media site data collection system of is configured to use data from multiple sources to compile media site data that is as complete and as accurate as technically and or practically feasible. For example data from a first source which may not be complete may be combined with data from a second source which may not be complete to create a more complete site database record for a particular media site. In addition data from a media site source may be verified using data from another source to verify the accuracy of the data from the media site source and or to modify and or update the data in the media site source. As described below data from multiple sources may be combined verified modified and or used in any number of ways.

Example media site data sources include but are not limited to government records a mobile assisted survey tool MAST third party still and or moving images and or one or more members of a field force e.g. using the MAST . Example government records include site licensing applications documents and or records e.g. conditional use permits plot plans building permits certificates of occupancy etc. that may be collected from for instance any number and or type s of county and or city offices responsible for enforcing building and or zoning rules and or regulations. Government records may also include media site data from surveys performed by a government agency and or a government contractor. In the illustrated example the media site data collection system is configured to be used to manually retrieve data pertaining to media sites from paper copies of the government records and manually enter the retrieved data into the site database via for example a user interface e.g. provided by a site data merger . However in other example implementations data from electronic government records could be electronically captured and or imported into the site database .

The example MAST of is a mobile apparatus that includes an electronic range finder a camera an SPS receiver and a compass such that a user of the MAST can capture and or record location information direction facing information illumination information and or other data for a media site. The captured media site data is downloaded from the example MAST to the example site data merger on an occasional periodic and or real time basis. The example MAST is used by members of the example field force and can be implemented using 1 a platform that is attached and or affixed to the top of an automobile truck etc. 2 a platform that can be hand carried and or 3 a platform that is attached and or affixed to a human powered vehicle or low speed vehicles e.g. bicycles kick scooters Segway personal transporters etc. . Any number and or type s of data transfer device s protocol s and or technique s can be used to download captured media site data from the MAST to the site data merger . For example the MAST can be attached to the site data merger using a universal serial bus USB connection a Bluetooth connection and or removable storage device drivers executing on the MAST and or the site data merger . While a single MAST is illustrated in in other example implementations any number and or types of mobile assisted survey tools could be used to collected media site data. For example multiple persons each having a MAST could be used to collect media site data for a geographic area. An example manner of implementing the example MAST is described below in connection with FIGS. A and A D.

In the illustrated example of third party still and or moving images e.g. video images motion JPEG etc. are electronically acquired from any number and or type s of third parties and or third party tools such as for example web sites Google Earth mapping service Microsoft Virtual Map and or Pictometry Electronic Field Study software. In other example implementations the images may be obtained in paper form and scanned into or otherwise converted to an electronic format suitable for use by the example site data merger . In the illustrated example the example images are provided for use by the site data merger and or a user of the site data merger to verify and or modify media site information and or data collected by the example MAST . The example images may be any type s of images including for example photographs e.g. satellite photographs aerial photographs terrestrial photographs etc. illustrations and or computer generated images.

The example field force of includes one or more persons that physically survey a designated market area DMA . Such persons may be directly employed by a company operating utilizing and or implementing the site database and or may include contractors hired by the company. In the illustrated example members of the example field force visit media sites to collect media site data using the example MAST or an apparatus substantially similar to the MAST which may be a pedestrian based MAST or a vehicular based MAST. In other example implementations the members of the field force can use any automated electronic and or manual tools and or methods other than the MAST to collect the media site data.

To merge and or collect data from one or more of the data sources the example media site data collection system includes the site data merger . The example site data merger receives data from and or inputs based upon one or more of the media site data sources to form the media site data stored in the example site database . In the illustrated example the site data merger is configured to provide one or more user interfaces that allow users to 1 input media site data collected from government records 2 import data from the example MAST and or 3 overlay media site data e.g. collected using the MAST and or collected from other sources such as the government records on top of one or more of the example images . Example implementations of user interfaces to allow a user to overlay the media site data on top of one or more of the example images are described below in connection with and . In the illustrated example the user interfaces are implemented using the Google Earth mapping service tool. In other example implementations any other mapping tool may alternatively be used including for example Pictometry Electronic Field Study software or Microsoft Virtual Earth. In the illustrated examples the user interfaces of and also enable a user to verify the accuracy of collected media site data and if necessary modify and or correct the media site data based upon the images .

While the media site data collection system is described herein as having a single site data merger as illustrated in in other example implementations the media site data collection system can be implemented using two or more site data mergers using two or more computing platforms that operate and or interact with the example site database . For example a first site data merger can be used to enter media site data collected from the government records a second site data merger can be used to import media site data collected using the MAST and a third site data merger can be used to display verify and or modify collected media site data using for example the third party images .

To partition a DMA for surveying e.g. using the MAST the example media site data collection system includes a survey planner . A detailed block diagram of an example implementation of the survey planner is described below in connection with . The example survey planner uses data from the example government records and or the example images to categorize different geographic areas as dense areas or sparse areas e.g. dispersed areas . In addition the planner can exclude areas in which zoning prohibits outdoor advertising. In the illustrated examples described herein the geographic areas are categorized in this manner to determine how they will be surveyed. For example areas designated as dense areas are surveyed by pedestrian surveyors using pedestrian based MAST s and areas designated as sparse areas are surveyed by vehicular surveyors using vehicular based MAST s. Pedestrian based MAST s or similar MAST s may be used by members of the field force that move by walking riding a bike or using any other transport equipment e.g. a Segway a kick scooter etc. that is relatively more maneuverable in a dense area than a vehicle and more appropriate for use in a pedestrian environment e.g. sidewalks walkways bike paths etc. . Vehicular based MAST s are mounted on motorized vehicles e.g. automobiles cars trucks etc. .

Dense areas are areas characteristic of having relatively more media sites for a given measured area than sparse areas. Dense areas may also be areas having relatively more activity e.g. high traffic count and or which are relatively more densely populated with people structures advertisements etc. than sparse areas such that using a vehicular based MAST would be difficult or impossible. For example dense areas may include inner city neighborhoods or business districts shopping districts indoor areas of commercial establishments etc. The dense areas are surveyed using pedestrian based MAST s because pedestrians are relatively more agile and flexible for maneuvering and positioning cameras in a densely populated or activity rich area than are vehicles. Sparse areas are areas characteristic of having relatively less media sites per a given measured area. Sparse areas may also be areas characteristic of having relatively less activity e.g. low traffic count and or which are relatively less densely populated with people structures advertisements etc. than dense areas. For example sparse areas may include rural roads highway areas etc. The sparse areas are surveyed using vehicular based MAST s because vehicles can cover larger geographic areas faster than pedestrians. In some example implementations geographic areas that might otherwise be categorized as sparse areas may nonetheless by surveyed using pedestrian based MAST s if for example characteristics e.g. traffic low speed limit etc. make it difficult for an automobile to be maneuvered while the MAST is operated and or the speed at which the traffic is moving might limit the effectiveness of the MAST .

In the illustrated example the example survey planner of is configured to present a user interface e.g. the user interface of that has zoning and traffic count data overlaid on top of a map and or image of a geographic area. In the illustrated examples described herein a traffic count is a count of all movements for cars trucks buses and or pedestrians per geographic area for a given duration. The areas that are for example zoned for commercial and or retail use and have high traffic counts are designated as dense areas. Once dense areas and sparse areas are identified they can be sub divided and or assigned to particular members of the field force for surveying. As discussed above members of the field force assigned to survey sparse areas will do so using vehicle based MAST s e.g. the MAST of and members of the field force assigned to survey dense areas will do so using pedestrian based MAST s.

To specify the direction towards which the media site is facing the example data structure includes a direction facing field . The example direction facing field includes a value that represents the direction towards which the media site is facing e.g. a number in degrees . In the illustrated examples described herein the example media site data collection system of determines the media site facing direction relative to true North e.g. calculated from the geographic offset from magnetic North . The direction towards which a media site is facing can be calculated using a line drawn perpendicular to the face of the media site and outwards or away from the media site.

To specify the location of the media site the example data structure includes a GPS North South coordinate field and a GPS East West coordinate field . The example North South coordinate field contains a value that represents the North South location of the media site as determined from received GPS signals i.e. the latitude of the media site . The example East West coordinate field contains a value that represents the East West location of the media site as determined from received GPS signals i.e. the longitude of the media site .

To specify the potential error in the GPS position fix represented by the coordinate fields and the example data structure includes an estimated position error field . The example estimated position error field includes a value that represents the potential error in the coordinates represented by the example coordinate fields and e.g. in units of feet or degrees . The value stored in the estimated position error field may be computed using any algorithm s logic and or method s based on for example the number and or strength of received GPS signals. For example if a GPS position fix was determined using relatively few GPS signals or GPS signals with low signal strength the error in location may be larger.

To specify on which side of a road the media site is located if any the example data structure includes a side of road field . The example side of road field includes a flag that represents on which side of the primary road the media site is located. If the media site is not along a road e.g. the on road field contains a NO flag value the side of road field may be left blank. To specify the angle of the media site relative to a road if any the example data structure includes an angle to road field . The example angle to road field includes a value that represents e.g. in degrees the angle the media site faces relative to the road. If the media site is not along a road e.g. the on road field contains a NO flag value the angle to road field may be left blank.

To specify whether the media site is illuminated the example data structure includes an illumination field . The example illumination field includes a value that represents the number of hours per day that the media site is illuminated e.g. 0 hours 12 hours 18 hours 24 hours etc. . To specify the type of the media site the example data structure includes a panel type field . The example panel type field includes a value and or an alphanumeric string that represents a media site type e.g. a billboard type a bus shelter type an 8 sheet poster type a 30 sheet poster type a wall mural type a 3 D prop type etc. . To specify the size of the media site the example data structure includes a panel size field . The example panel size field includes a value that represents the size of the media site measured vertically horizontally and or diagonally e.g. 6 feet 24 feet etc. . To specify the distance of the media site from a road if any the example data structure includes a distance from road field . The example distance from road field includes a value that represents the distance of the media site from the primary road e.g. in feet or meters . If the media site is not along a road e.g. the on road field contains a NO flag value the distance from road field may be left blank.

To identify the province in which the media site is located the example data structure includes a province name field . The example province name field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the name of the district county parish or province in which the media site is located. To identify the city in which the media site is located the example data structure includes a city name field . The example city name field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the name of the city in which the media site is located. To identify a secondary road from which the media site can be viewed if any the example data structure includes a secondary road field . The example secondary road field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the name of the secondary road from which the media site is visible. If the media site is not visible to any secondary roads the secondary road field may be left blank. To identify the postal area in which the media site is located the example data structure includes a postal code field . The example postal code field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the postal code e.g. a zipcode for the geographic area in which the media site is located.

To identify any obstructions of the media site the example data structure includes a clutter field . The example clutter field includes one or more alphanumeric strings that describe any obstructions that may impact viewing of the media site from the primary road for the media site. The obstructions can be evident from a digital image of the media site stored in association with the data structure e.g. as specified in a picture field . To identify a picture taken of the media site the example data structure includes a picture field . The example picture field includes one or more alphanumeric strings that represent the name of one or more digital image files. Additionally or alternatively the contents of one or more digital image files may be stored directly within the picture field .

While the example data structure is illustrated in as having the data fields described above in other example implementations the example data structure may be implemented using any number and or type s of other and or additional fields and or data. Further the fields and or data illustrated in may be combined divided omitted re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any of a variety of ways. For example the secondary road field the example postal code field and or the example clutter field may be omitted from some implementations of the site database and or for some media sites. Moreover the example data structure may include additional fields and or data than those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated fields and or data.

To display the map data collected by the example data collector the example survey planner includes a mapper and a display . The example mapper formats and or creates one or more user interfaces to graphically depict a map and or image of a geographic area. An example user interface created by the mapper is discussed below in connection with . The example display is configured to display the user interfaces created by the example mapper . The example display may be any type of hardware software and or any combination thereof that can display a user interface for viewing by a user. For example the display may include a device driver a video chipset and or a video and or computer display terminal.

To overlay the zoning data and or the traffic data on top of the user interface created by the mapper the example survey planner of includes an overlayer . The example overlayer overlays the zoning data and or traffic data on top of the user interface by providing instructions to the example mapper and or the display . The instructions cause the mapper to modify one or more of the user interfaces and or cause the display to directly overlay the data and . For example the overlayer may use an application programming interface API that directs the display to add lines and or text to a user interface created by the mapper .

In some example implementations the example data collector the example mapper the example user interface s the example display and the example overlayer may be implemented to use the Google Earth mapping service tool. In other example implementations other mapping tools such as for example Microsoft Virtual Map or Pictometry Electronic Field Study software could be used instead. In the illustrated examples described herein the Google Earth mapping service tool is used to implement an application that may be executed by a general purpose computing platform e.g. the example computing platform of . In such implementations portions of the example data collector the example mapper the example user interfaces and the example overlay are implemented using the Google Earth mapping service application. In particular the Google Earth mapping service application collects and displays map data from third party images e.g. satellite and or aerial images of a geographic area stored within a server that implements and or provides the Google Earth mapping service interface . The Google Earth mapping service tool generates user interfaces that may be displayed on a computer terminal associated with the computing platform. Another application and or utility i.e. the overlayer that may be executed by the computing platform and or a different computing platform formats the zoning data and the traffic data into a data file suitable for use with the Google Earth mapping service application e.g. a file structure in accordance with the Keyhole Markup Language KML format . Google Earth mapping service KML files textually describe lines information graphics and or icons to be displayed by overlaying them on third party images . The Google Earth mapping service application reads and or processes the KML file generated by the overlayer and the user s personal computer and or workstation displays the resulting overlaid images and or user interfaces generated by the Google Earth mapping service application for viewing by a user.

To partition portions of a geographic area e.g. a DMA the example survey planner of includes a partitioner . The example partitioner of partitions the map into areas dense in media sites and areas sparse in media sites. The example partitioner partitions the map based upon overlaid zoning data and overlaid traffic data . For example the partitioner identifies portions of the map corresponding to both high traffic counts and zoned for commercial and or retail use as media site dense areas. Such media site dense areas are typically easiest to survey via for example foot and or bicycle. Other areas of the map are typically sparse in media sites and thus amenable to survey via automobile. The partitioning of the overlaid map may be performed via hardware software manually and or via any combination thereof.

To assign geographic areas to surveyors the example survey planner includes an assignor . The example assignor sub divides the map partitions determined by the example partitioner into sub partitions based upon the type of the map partition e.g. dense or sparse and based upon the size of a geographic area that can be surveyed by a surveyor within a prescribed time period e.g. miles of roadway per day . For example a surveyor on foot may be able to survey two miles of densely located media sites in a day while a surveyor in a car may be able to survey miles of dispersedly located media sites in a day. The example assignor then assigns the sub partitions to particular surveyors so that an entire geographic area is surveyed for example in as time efficient a manner as possible e.g. in as few days as possible given a particular number and or type s of surveyors and or in as cost efficient a manner as possible. The creation of sub partitions and or the assignment of sub partitions to surveyors may be performed via hardware software manually and or as any combinations thereof.

To control the example survey planner of the survey planner includes a graphical user interface GUI . The example GUI may be part of an operating system e.g. Microsoft Windows XP used to implement the survey planner . The GUI allows a user of the survey planner to for example select a geographic area to be mapped and or to select zoning data and or traffic data to be overlaid on the geographic area map. If the Google Earth mapping service tool is used to implement a portion of the example survey planner the GUI provides an interface between the user and the Google Earth mapping service application. For example the Google Earth mapping service tool may use an API provided by the example GUI to display information and or to receive user inputs and or selections e.g. to allow a user to select a KML file to load .

While an example manner of implementing the example survey planner of has been illustrated in some of the elements processes and devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any of a variety of ways. Further the example data collector the example mapper the example user interface s the example display the example overlayer the example partitioner the example assignor the example GUI and or more generally the example survey planner may be implemented using hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example survey planner may include additional elements processes and or devices than those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and or devices.

To depict the zoning of different portions of the geographic area the example map is color coded based upon how an area is zoned. For example an area occurring along West Sunset Boulevard is zoned for commercial use while an area south of Melrose Avenue is zoned for residential use. To depict traffic data the example map is overlaid with traffic count data. For example a traffic count for West Sunset Boulevard is 25 000 per the 2003 Annual Average Weekday Traffic AAWT Traffic Count for Los Angeles County.

As discussed above in connection with areas that are likely to be dense in media sites can be identified based upon having a high traffic count and or being zoned for commercial and or retail use. Example dense media site areas of occur along West Sunset Boulevard Santa Monica Boulevard and Melrose Avenue. An example sparse media site area is located south of Melrose Avenue.

To capture real time video the example MAST includes a video camera e.g. a video image capturing device . The example video camera is any type and or model of digital video camera capable of capturing storing and or providing real time video to the example user interface apparatus . In the illustrated examples described herein the Live Ultra webcam manufactured by Creative Labs is used to implement the example video camera and is coupled to the example user interface apparatus via a Universal Serial Bus USB interface to enable live video feed to be communicated to and displayed by the user interface apparatus . In other example implementations other peripheral interfaces such as for example a Bluetooth interface an IEEE 1394 interface a coaxial cable interface etc. may be used instead to couple the video camera to the user interface apparatus .

To capture a still image of a selected media site the example MAST of includes a camera e.g. a still image capturing device . The example camera may be implemented using any type and or model of digital still picture camera capable of capturing storing and or providing a digital photograph to the example user interface apparatus and being controlled by the user interface apparatus . In the example implementation of the digital camera is capable of capturing relatively higher resolution images and or relatively higher quality images e.g. higher color depth sharper images better focused images etc. than the video camera . In this manner the higher resolution images of the media sites facilitate subsequently performing detailed analyses of text and image details of the media sites. In the illustrated example the S3iS digital camera manufactured by Canon of Shimomaruko 3 chome Ohta ku Tokyo Japan is used to implement the example digital camera .

In the illustrated example the example digital camera is coupled to the example user interface apparatus using a USB interface. In other example implementations other peripheral interfaces such as for example a Bluetooth interface an IEEE 1394 interface etc. may be used instead to couple the camera to the user interface apparatus . The digital camera is controlled by the example user interface apparatus to for example control the zoom of the digital camera and or the shutter trigger of the digital camera to capture a photograph. Although the example MAST is described herein as having separate video and still picture cameras e.g. the video camera and the digital camera in other example implementations the MAST may be implemented using a single camera capable of capturing video and digital still pictures. In this manner the camera can transfer live video to the user interface apparatus and when a user selects an advertisement object of interest in the video feed to be captured the computer can control the camera to capture a still image e.g. a high resolution still image of the specified object.

To determine the distance to a selected media site the example MAST of includes a rangefinder . The example rangefinder can be implemented using any type and or model of digital rangefinder. In the illustrated examples described herein the rangefinder is implemented using the TruPulse 200B manufactured by Laser Technologies of 7070 S. Tucson Way Englewood Colo. USA 80112. In the illustrated example the rangefinder is coupled to the user interface apparatus using a Bluetooth interface. In other example implementations other peripheral interfaces such as for example an RS 232 serial communication interface an IEEE 1394 interface a USB interface etc. may be used instead. In the illustrated example the rangefinder is controlled by the example user interface apparatus to measure and report the distance between the rangefinder and a media site. In the example of the digital camera is triggered to take a picture of the media site at substantially the same time that the digital rangefinder is triggered to measure the distance to the media site.

To position the digital camera and the digital rangefinder the example MAST includes a pan tilt mechanism . The example pan tilt mechanism is controllable in two directions side to side and up and down to orient the camera and the rangefinder relative to a media site. For example the pan tilt mechanism can be controlled so that the selected media site is in substantially the center of a viewfinder of the digital camera and or a picture captured by the digital camera . The pan tilt mechanism may be controlled manually by a user of the MAST and or automatically by the user interface apparatus based upon a user selected point in the real time video provided to the user interface apparatus by the example video camera . For example the user interface apparatus may determine that a selected media site is currently displayed in the upper right corner of the real time video and thus direct the pan tilt mechanism to rotate to the right and tilt upwards until the media site is in the middle of the real time video frames. The example pan tilt mechanism may be coupled to the example user interface apparatus using any type of interface such as an RS 232 serial communication interface a USB interface and or a Bluetooth Interface. The interface may be used to control the pan tilt mechanism if electronically controllable and or to receive angle and or tilt information from the pan tilt mechanism . Such angle and or tilt information is relative to the current orientation of the MAST e.g. the facing direction of an automobile to which the MAST is mounted . A pan tilt mechanism that can be used to implement the example pan tile mechanism is implemented using the SPG400 Standard Servo Power Gearbox the SPT400 Standard Servo Power Gearbox Tilt System the 31425S HS 425BB Servo and the 35645S HS 5645MG Servo all manufactured by Servo City of 620 Industrial Park Winfield Kans. USA 67156.

To determine the directions in which the fields of view of the cameras and are positioned the example MAST includes a digital compass . The example compass may be implemented using any type and or model of digital compass. The example compass may be coupled to the example user interface apparatus using any type of interface including for example a USB interface and or a Bluetooth Interface. The USB interface may be used to read the current orientation of the MAST in for example degrees. As described below in connection with the MAST may be provided with a rotary encoder to determine an angle of rotation or pan of the cameras and relative to a reference point on a vehicle. In this manner the user interface apparatus may determine the directions in which the fields of view of the cameras and are positioned based on a direction of travel of an automobile as indicated by the compass and the angle of rotation indicated by the rotary encoder . In other example implementations the digital compass may be coupled to a rotating e.g. a panning platform on which the cameras and are mounted so that as the cameras and are rotated the compass is also rotated to directly detect the direction in which the fields of view of the cameras and are positioned.

To determine geographic locations of the MAST when the digital camera captures images of media sites the example MAST includes a GPS receiver . In the illustrated example the example GPS receiver is implemented using an Earthmate LT 20 GPS receiver communicatively coupled to the user interface apparatus using a USB interface. The USB interface may be used to obtain the last position fix from the GPS receiver e.g. longitude and latitude and or to direct the GPS receiver to perform a position fix. The GPS receiver may also estimate and provide to the user interface apparatus an estimate of the amount of error in a position fix. In other example implementations the GPS receiver may be implemented using any other type and or model of GPS receiver capable to receive GPS signals from one or more GPS satellites and determine and or estimate the current location of the MAST . In addition the example GPS receiver may be coupled to the example user interface apparatus using any other type of interface including for example a Bluetooth interface.

In the illustrated example of the data interfaces e.g. data interface hardware software and protocols are represented using the data interfaces block designated by reference numeral . For example in the illustrated example the MAST is provided with a USB hub to communicatively couple any USB interfaces of the components described above to the user interface apparatus . Such USB hub represented by the data interfaces is separate from the other components and may be used if the user interface apparatus has less USB interfaces than the number required to communicate with the above described components that use USB interfaces. However in some example implementations or for some of the above described components some of the data interfaces are integrated in the components and the components are directly communicatively coupled to the user interface apparatus . The data interfaces may include for example USB interfaces RS 232 serial communication interfaces Bluetooth Interfaces IEEE 1394 interfaces. As described in detail above the data interfaces enable the computer to control and exchange data with the above described components. For instance the data interfaces enable the example MAST to download media site data to for example the example site data merger of using the example data structure of . Although not shown the MAST may include any number and or type s of power sources e.g. batteries AC power supplies DC power supplies etc. to power the user interface apparatus the video camera the digital camera the digital rangefinder the pan tilt mechanism the digital compass and or the GPS receiver .

To recognize or identify objects in images the user interface apparatus is provided with an image object recognizer . In the illustrated example the image object recognizer is configured to perform object recognition processes to recognize media sites e.g. billboards posters murals or any other advertisement media in images captured by the video camera and or the digital camera . For example during a survey when the display interface displays to a user real time images captured by the video camera of a general area having one or more advertisement media sites and the user uses the user input interface to select a location on the captured image having one of the media sites the image object recognizer can use the screen location selected by the user on the displayed image and use an object recognition process to detect the boundaries of an advertisement located in the scene at the user selected screen location. In this manner subsequent processes can be performed to aim and zoom the digital camera towards the advertisement media site in the scene.

To store data to and retrieve data from a local memory the user interface apparatus is provided with a data interface . In the illustrated example the data interface is configured to retrieve and store data in data records e.g. the data structure of for different surveyed media sites. For example the data interface can receive data from the digital camera the digital rangefinder the GPS receiver the video camera the digital compass and or the data interface described above in connection with and store the data in the local memory . In addition the data interface is configured to store and retrieve images in the memory captured by the camera s and or for display via the display interface . Also the data interface is configured to retrieve aerial maps or photographs or satellite photographs of geographic areas for display to a user as shown below in connection with the user interface of and or the user interface of . Also in the illustrated example the data interface is configured to store the zoom levels of the digital camera used to capture images of media sites to store distances between user specified media sites and survey locations from which the media sites were surveyed to store captured images of media sites to store pan and tilt angles used to position the rangefinder and the digital camera to capture the images of the media sites to store location information representative of the locations of the MAST when the media sites were surveyed and to store timestamp s indicative of time s at which the digital camera captured the image s of the media sites. The information stored in the memory can subsequently be used to determine geographic location coordinates of the media sites and or can be communicated to the site database for storage and subsequent processing.

To control the position of the digital camera and the rangefinder prior to capturing an image of a user specified media site the user input apparatus is provided with a camera positioner interface . In the illustrated example the camera positioner interface is configured to determine an amount of tilt rotation and pan rotation e.g. rotational angle values by which to adjust the position of the digital camera and the rangefinder to position the field of view of the digital camera on a targeted media site. For example after the image object recognizer recognizes the boundaries of a media site to be surveyed the camera positioner interface can determine pan and tilt adjustment values with which to adjust the pan tilt mechanism to position the fields of view of the digital camera and the rangefinder to be on the identified media site.

To control the operation of the video camera and the digital camera the user interface apparatus is provided with a camera controller . In the illustrated example the camera controller is configured to control the zoom levels and the shutter trigger of the digital camera to capture images of media sites. To control the zoom level the camera controller is configured to determine the zoom level based on the distance between the digital camera and the targeted media site as measured by the digital rangefinder . In the illustrated example the camera controller is configured to determine zoom levels that capture a media site in its entirety e.g. advertisement content and fixtures to which the advertisement content is affixed or surrounding the advertisement content or to capture at least a portion of the media site. The camera controller is also configured to control image or video capture operations including zoom operations of the video camera .

To determine location information e.g. geocodes geographic coordinates etc. for locations of media sites the example user interface apparatus is provided with a location information generator . In the illustrated example the location information generator is configured to use data stored in the memory to determine the location s of media site s as described in detail below in connection with .

While example manners of implementing the example MAST of and the example user interface apparatus are illustrated in the example MAST and the example user interface apparatus may be implemented using any number and or type s of other and or additional elements devices components interfaces circuits and or processors. Further the elements devices components interfaces circuits and or processors illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any number of different ways. Additionally the example MAST and or the example user interface apparatus may be implemented using any combination of firmware software logic and or hardware. Moreover the MAST and or the example user interface apparatus may be implemented to include additional elements devices components interfaces circuits and or processors than those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements devices components interfaces circuits and or processors.

As shown in the example MAST is mounted through a sun roof of an automobile roof . As shown in the MAST is mechanically affixed to one or more members that position and or secure the MAST within the sun roof area . In the illustrated examples of the pan tilt mechanism is implemented using a manual adjustment configuration. In particular as shown in the pan tilt mechanism is implemented using a PVC pipe that passes through a thrust bearing and is manually controllable using an up down and rotate handle . The manual pan tilt mechanism of enables a person to control the position and field of view of the cameras and and the range finder by enabling the person to a move the handle upwards downwards to tilt the video camera the digital camera and the rangefinder relative to a geographic horizon and b rotate the handle to rotate the video camera the digital camera and the rangefinder relative to the front of the automobile.

In the illustrated example of the MAST is provided with a rotary encoder to determine the position of the video camera the digital camera and the rangefinder relative to the front to back centerline of the automobile. The example rotary encoder provides a digital value and or an electrical signal representative of the rotational angle of the video camera the digital camera and the rangefinder relative to the front to back centerline of the automobile to the user interface apparatus . In this manner the user interface apparatus can determine the direction in which fields of view of the cameras and are pointing based on direction information from the digital compass and the angle of rotation indicated by the rotary encoder .

In the illustrated example of the example MAST is implemented using an electronically controllable pan tilt mechanism and is surrounded by an example housing having a clear weatherproof dome to protect the MAST from environmental elements e.g. rain snow wind etc. . The example housing can be mounted and or affixed to the top of an automobile using for example straps a luggage rack a ski rack a bike rack suction cups etc. To allow a user of the example user interface apparatus of to select a media site the example MAST of includes a stylus . The user selects a media site by pressing the tip of the stylus to a touch panel enabled screen of the user interface apparatus at a point corresponding to a media site.

In the illustrated example of the pan tilt mechanism is electronically controllable via the user interface apparatus . In the illustrated example the example user interface apparatus communicates with the video camera which is provided but not shown in the example configuration of the digital camera the rangefinder the pan tilt mechanism the digital compass and the GPS receiver via respective communication interfaces as described above in connection with . In some example implementations to allow the housing to be water and air tight and or to reduce cable clutter the components of the MAST in the housing can be communicatively coupled to the user interface apparatus via a wireless communication interface such as for example a Bluetooth interface to eliminate the need to extend communication cables from the user interface apparatus to the MAST components. In some example implementations the MAST can be provided with a manual pan tilt adjustment mechanism as shown in to allow a user to perform coarse position adjustments of the MAST and the MAST can also be provided with the electronic pan tilt mechanism to enable the MAST to automatically perform fine position adjustments when for example centering on and zooming into a media site of interest.

In the illustrated example of the example MAST is implemented using a base and a tillable housing to provide a vertical tilting motion. In the illustrated example of the base or housing includes a lower fixed position base or housing portion and an upper rotatable base or housing portion to provide a panning motion. The video camera A and B is mounted in the lower fixed position base portion and captures video images through a window area . The digital camera and the rangefinder A B and C are mounted in the tiltable housing of the upper rotatable base portion and have a field of view or line of sight through a window area . In the illustrated example a tilting device of the pan tilt mechanism is mounted in the upper rotatable base portion at a location indicated by reference numeral to vertically tilt the tiltable housing . To protect the video camera the digital camera and the rangefinder from environmental elements e.g. rain snow wind etc. the base including the tiltable housing and the lower and upper base portions and are implemented using weatherproof construction. Although not shown the digital compass and the GPS receiver can also be mounted on the MAST of . For example the digital compass and the GPS receiver can be mounted on a fixed e.g. non pannable and non tiltable portion such as for example a mounting plate that remains in a fixed position relative to a vehicle on which the MAST is mounted. Although the lower base portion is described above as a fixed position base portion in other example implementations the lower base portion may be implemented as a rotatable base portion so that the lower and upper base portions and can rotate together to enable panning motions for the digital camera and the video camera .

While the example MAST of B C and or D has a vehicular based form factor suitable for mounting on a motorized vehicle in other example implementations the example MAST may be implemented as a pedestrian based MAST using a wearable and or carry able form factor. For example the rangefinder may be a hand held rangefinder having a viewfinder that allows a user to point the rangefinder at or about the center of a media site. In the illustrated example the rangefinder is capable of operating in a mode that enables measuring angles to the top and bottom edges of the media site to allow the height of the media site to be computed. The user interface apparatus may be implemented using a handheld portable computing device e.g. a personal digital assistant PDA a Windows Mobile device a PocketPC device a Palm device etc. that may be carried using a carrying case that may be clipped to a belt. In some example pedestrian based MAST system implementations the video camera may be omitted from the MAST and surveyors e.g. members of the field force can rely on their own sight to determine the direction in which to direct the field of view of the digital camera to capture an image of a targeted media site. To enable a user to control the MAST the user interface apparatus is configured to display a user interface that prompts the user of the MAST to perform different measurements and or capture pictures of a media site. For example when a user identifies a new media site the user can press a start button. The user interface apparatus then prompts the user to specify a plurality of operations to characterize the media site including for example 1 measuring a distance to the media site 2 measuring a height of the media site e.g. measure angles to the top and bottom of the media site 3 entering textual information e.g. owner name etc. and 4 capturing one or more pictures of the media site. To capture GPS information and heading information in a hand held implementation the GPS receiver and the digital compass are mounted to the rangefinder so that as the rangefinder is moved the GPS receiver and the digital compass can be used to track the direction and location of the rangefinder . For example as the rangefinder is rotated the digital compass can correctly measure the direction in which the rangefinder is pointing.

In some example implementations vehicular based or pedestrian based MAST s can be configured to be controlled using a head mounted controller. For example headgear to be worn by a member of the field force may be provided with an inertial sensor a transparent partial one eye visor a digital camera and a rangefinder. To control a pedestrian based MAST the user adjusts his head position to look at a media site through the one eye visor to target the media site and to perform the distance measurement using the rangefinder . The angles used to compute the height of the media site can be derived from the orientation of the user s head. To control a vehicular based MAST the transparent partial one eye visor positioned over a user s eye could be used to locate and target a media site. The inertial sensor in the helmet can be used to generate motion and direction information based on a person s detected head movements to control the example pan tilt mechanism to position the cameras and and the rangefinder .

To display the map data collected by the example data collector the example data site merger includes a mapper and a display . The example mapper formats and or creates one or more user interfaces that graphically depict a geographic area and that are presented by the example display . Example user interfaces created by the mapper are discussed below in connection with and . The example display may be implemented using any type of hardware software and or any combination thereof that can display a user interface for viewing by a user. For example the display may include a device driver a video chipset and or a video and or computer display terminal.

To overlay the site data and or the site images on top of the user interface s created by the mapper the example site data merger includes an overlayer . The example overlayer overlays the site data and or the site images on top of the user interface s by providing instructions a to the display that cause the display to show the overlaid data and and or b to the mapper . For example the overlayer may use an application programming interface API that directs the mapper and or the display to add lines and or text to user interface s created by the mapper .

To verify modify and or update the site data and or media site information stored in the example site database e.g. the example coordinate fields and of the example site data merger includes a modifier . The example modifier presents one or more user interfaces via the display that allow a user of the site data merger to verify modify and or update the site data . Example user interfaces for verifying modifying and or updating the site data and or the site database are discussed below in connection with and . In the illustrated example the mapper and or the overlayer create a first user interface that displays collected media site data overlaid onto an aerial satellite photograph e.g. an aerial satellite photograph from the map data of a geographic area and the example modifier presents one or more additional user interfaces that allow a user to adjust the location of a media site based upon the satellite photograph and or based upon the site images . Once the user has finished adjusting the location of a media site if necessary the modifier updates the site database e.g. the example coordinate fields and based upon the collected and possibly modified media site data .

In the illustrated example the Google Earth mapping service tool is used to implement the example data collector the example mapper the example user interface s the example display the example overlayer at least a portion of the example modifier and the example user interface s of . In other example implementations other mapping tools such as for example Microsoft Virtual Map could additionally or alternatively be used. For example the Google Earth mapping service tool may be implemented as an application that is executed by a general purpose computing platform e.g. the example computing platform of where a portion of the example data collector the example mapper the example user interface s and the example overlayer and a portion of the modifier are implemented by the Google Earth mapping service application. In particular the Google Earth mapping service application collects and displays the map data from the third party images e.g. satellite images stored within a server that implements and or provides the Google Earth mapping service interface. The Google Earth mapping service tool is used to generate the user interfaces that may be displayed on a computer terminal associated with the computing platform. The Google Earth mapping service tool also generates user interfaces that allow a user to verify and or modify displayed media site data. Another application and or utility e.g. the example overlayer that executes upon the computing platform and or a different computing platform formats the site data and the site images data into a data file suitable for use with the Google Earth mapping service application e.g. a file structure in accordance with the KML format . The Google Earth mapping service application reads and or processes the KML file generated by the overlayer and the user s personal computer and or workstation displays the resulting overlaid images and or user interfaces and generated by the Google Earth mapping service application for viewing by a user. Once the user has completed viewing verifying and or modifying the site data the Google Earth mapping service tool saves a second KML file that reflects any changes made to the site data by the user using the user interface s . The example modifier of parses the site data from the second KML file and adds stores and or updates the media site data stored in the site database e.g. adds updates and or modifies the example coordinate fields and of .

To control the example site data merger of the site data merger includes a graphical user interface GUI e.g. a user input interface . The example GUI of may be part of an operating system e.g. Microsoft Windows XP used to implement the site data merger . The GUI allows a user of the site data merger to for example select a geographic area to be mapped and or to select the site data and or the site images to be overlaid onto a geographic map. If the Google Earth mapping service tool is used to implement a portion of the example site data merger the GUI is used to provide an interface between the user and the Google Earth mapping service application. For example the Google Earth mapping service tool may use an API to display information and or to receive user inputs and or selections e.g. to select and load a KML file via the GUI .

While an example manner of implementing the example site data merger of has been illustrated in the elements processes and devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in any of a variety of ways. Further the example data collector the example mapper the example user interface s and the example display the example overlayer the example modifier the example GUI and or more generally the example site data merger may be implemented using hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Further still the example site data merger may include additional elements processes and or devices than those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Turning to to display an image of a geographic area the example user interface includes an image area . In the illustrated example the example image area can display a satellite photograph and or image of a geographic area of interest. To allow a user to control the image area the example user interface includes any number and or type of user selectable user interface controls . By using the controls the user can select a desired portion of a satellite aerial and or terrestrial image. For instance in the illustrated example the example controls include one or more elements that allow the user to for example zoom in zoom out and rotate the image and to pan the image in left right and or up down directions.

To allow a user to select and load a file that includes media site data e.g. a KML file and or a keyhole markup ZIP KMZ file containing multiple KML files and or still images and or video files for respective ones of multiple media sites the example user interface includes a menu that allows a user to among other things open a file open dialog box . The example file open dialog box allows a user to select and load a media site data file such as small.kmz. To display media sites associated with an opened media site data file the example user interface includes a list display area . In the illustrated example the example list display area includes a list of media sites including one entitled Board and designated by reference numeral .

Based upon the list of media sites loaded and based upon the portion of the satellite image currently displayed the example image area displays information pertaining to one or more of the media sites. In the illustrated example the example image area displays two media sites indicated by media site markers labeled Board and Board . In the illustrated example Board is shown with a media site marker and or icon that represents the surveyed location of Board a bounding box that represents based upon the accuracy of the surveying tool an error margin of location coordinates determined or collected for the surveyed location of Board and a line that represents a line of sight from the location where Board was surveyed to Board .

Turning to to select media sites to be displayed the example list display area includes check box controls one of which is indicated by reference numeral . In the illustrated example of the check box is blank and thus Board is not illustrated in the example image area of . However the check boxes for Boards and are checked therefore Boards and are displayed although Boards and are occluded by a photos and details window .

To display more information for a particular media site the example list display area includes tree expansion box controls one of which is indicated in by reference numeral . By alternately clicking on the example tree expansion box information pertaining to Board can be viewed or hidden from view. Example media information includes photos and detailed information that can be accessed by selecting a photos and details link control . In the example user interface of if the photos and details link is clicked the photos and details window is displayed. Additionally or alternatively clicking the site marker icon associated with the media site in the image will launch the window . The example window of displays textual information about the media site as well as one or more photographs and or video of the media site taken from the end of the line that is opposite the media site. Example textual information includes for example the name of the owner of the site the direction the site is facing the distance to the site any other information described above in connection with etc.

The user interface illustrated in including the example photographs facilitates visually determining that the surveyed location of Board is different from an actual location of Board . To modify or update the media site data for Board to represent the correct location of Board i.e. the actual location a properties dialog user interface shown in may be instantiated by a user. For example referring to to modify the surveyed location of a media site in the example user interface a user clicks their right mouse button e.g. right clicks with the position controlled by the mouse located on the surveyed media site location in the image to bring up a selection window not shown including a selection entitled properties. When properties is selected in the selection window the properties dialog user interface is shown. The example properties dialog box of displays the surveyed location of the media site.

In the illustrated example of the icon displayed at the surveyed media site location also changes to include a target location icon depicted as a box surrounding the site marker. The user can click and drag the target location icon from its original location e.g. the surveyed location to the actual location of the media site as shown in . When the user saves the KML file for Board and or a KMZ file containing the KML file for Board the location of the media site e.g. Board is saved with location information representative of the new location . Thus when the site data merger e.g. the example modifier of processes the KMZ file the location of the media site saved in the site database e.g. the example coordinate fields and of will be the coordinates of the new location rather than the coordinates of the surveyed location . The site data merger also stores other information from the KML file into the site database for the media site. For example the owner name shown in the textual information of can be stored in the example owner name field of FIG. . Likewise other elements of the data record can be filled updated and or modified based upon the KML file.

To specify a filename the example data structure includes a filename field . The example filename field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the name of the file that contains the data structure . To specify the name of the media site associated with the file the example data structure includes a name field . The example name field includes an alphanumeric string that represents the name of the media site. To specify and or store the media site information that may be viewed e.g. viewed using the user interfaces of and or hidden the example data structure includes folder fields and . The example folder fields and delineate the start and end of the media site information for the media site respectively.

To specify textual information and or images that can be displayed e.g. in the example photos and details window of the example data structure includes entries . The example entries define describe and provide the information to be displayed when for example the example photos and details link of is selected and or the site marker icon for the media site is clicked. For example the entries define the file name of an image to be displayed.

To specify a line of sight from a survey location to a media site e.g. the example line of the example data structure includes entries . The example entries include the start and end coordinates of the line as well as a width and color for the line. To specify a potential survey location error e.g. the example boundary of the example data structure includes entries . The example entries include the coordinates of a set of points that collectively define the boundary of the potential media site location error as well as a width and color for the line. To specify the position of the media site the example data structure includes coordinates . If the data structure is used as an input to the site data merger the example coordinates represent the surveyed location of the media site e.g. the example location of . If the data structure is the output of the site data merger the example coordinates represent the verified location of the media site e.g. the example location of .

To specify a point of view e.g. so that the photograph of the site in the pop up window matches the orientation of the satellite image the example data structure includes entries . The example entries contain values that represent the point of view from the survey location to the media site. The example entries contain coordinates of the survey location a distance to the media site a viewing angle relative to the horizon from the survey location to the media site and a heading of the surveying equipment.

While the example data structure is illustrated as having the above described fields and information the example methods apparatus and systems described herein may be implemented using other data structures having any number and or type s of other and or additional fields and or data. Further one or more of the fields and or data illustrated in may be omitted combined divided re arranged eliminated and or implemented in different ways. Moreover the example data structure may include fields and or data additional to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated fields and or data.

The example process of may be used to collect and merge media site data and or information from multiple data sources e.g. the example data sources of into a site database e.g. the example database . The example process of begins with processing of media site data from government records block e.g. the example government records of by for example performing the example process of . A survey planner e.g. the example survey planner of identifies the dense site areas and sparse site areas block by for example performing the example process of . The dense site areas are surveyed using pedestrian based MAST s block and the sparse site areas are surveyed using vehicular based MAST s block . In the illustrated example the dense and sparse site areas are surveyed using the example process of described below. The example process of is then ended.

Turning to the illustrated example process is used to process media site data from government records e.g. the government records of . Initially the site data merger obtains media site data from the government records block . The government records may be obtained from any number and or type s of government agencies and or offices. The media site data collected from the government records is then entered and or loaded into the site database block .

Using information and or parameters contained in the government records e.g. mile marker values the site data merger can estimate locations of media sites block . The site data merger then uses the user interfaces to plot and verify location and site information of each media site profile block . For example the site data merger can present the location and site profile information of the media site locations to a user for verification using any or all of the example user interfaces of and or .

Once the media site locations are verified the modifier of the site data merger can determine geocodes e.g. a longitude coordinate and a latitude coordinate for the media sites block and store the geocodes in the site database block . For example the modifier can store the geocodes in the example coordinate fields and of the data structure of . The example process of is then ended by for example returning control to the example process of .

Turning to the depicted example process is used to implement the example survey planner of . Initially the data collector of the survey planner obtains zoning data for a geographic area block and traffic count data for the geographic area block . In the illustrated example the traffic count is a count of all movements for cars trucks buses and pedestrians per geographic area for a given duration. The mapper of the survey planner displays an image of the geographic area block via one of the user interfaces . The overlayer overlays the obtained zoning and traffic count data onto the image of the geographic area block . For example the overlayer creates a KML file that the mapper loads and uses to overlay the zoning and traffic count data.

The partitioner of the survey planner identifies dense media site areas and sparse media site areas block based on the overlaid zoning and traffic count data. The partitioner partitions or sub divides the dense and sparse media site areas block and the assignor assigns the sub divided portions to surveyors e.g. member s of the example field force of block . In the illustrated example the assignor assigns dense areas to be surveyed by pedestrian surveyors using pedestrian based MAST s and assigns sparse areas to be surveyed by vehicular surveyors using vehicle based MAST s e.g. the MAST of . The example process of is then ended by for example returning control to the example process of .

Turning to the depicted example process is used to survey a media site. Initially example media site data collection system collects media site data and or information for the media site block . For example the example media site data collection system can collect the media site data e.g. site profile and geocode information using the example process described below in connection with . The site data merger displays or plots the collected media site data block . For example the mapper and the overlayer can use a Google Earth mapping service window in connection with the example user interfaces of and or to display the media site data in connection with aerial maps satellite photographs etc. of a geographic area in which the media site is located. One or more of the user interfaces and the modifier of the data merger then verify and adjust media site location information block . For example one or more of the user interfaces described above in connection with and may be used to verify and or adjust the media site location based on user input. The modifier then stores or uploads the media site data to the site database block . For example the modifier can parse a KML file to extract values e.g. site profile and geocode information that are used to fill fields of a media site data structure e.g. the example data structure of stored in the site database to store the updated and or verified media site data. The example process of is then ended by for example returning control to the example process of .

Turning to a depicted example process may be implemented to collect and or obtain media site data for a media site. Initially the display interface of the user interface apparatus displays real time images of a general area of interest block captured using the MAST A and A D . For example a user may manually adjust the MAST as described above in connection with to capture a real time video feed of a general area of interest in which one or more media sites may be located. Alternatively the example MAST configuration described above in connection with may be used so that a user can remotely control the position of the MAST via the user interface apparatus . In this manner the camera positioner interface can control the pan tilt mechanism to position the field of view of the video camera to capture real time video of the general area of interest. In any case the captured real time images are communicated to the user interface apparatus and the display interface displays them to a user as shown in .

A media site object of interest is then selected in the real time images block . For example using a manually controlled MAST as described above in connection with a user may visually identify an advertisement object of interest and elect to gather site data about that advertisement object. Alternatively using an automatically positionable MAST as described above in connection with a user may use the user input interface of the example user interface apparatus to select a location on an image e.g. a real time video feed image displayed via the display interface to specify an advertisement object to be automatically visually located by the MAST .

The camera positioner interface of the user interface apparatus determines tilt and pan rotation angles and controls the pan tilt mechanism to set a pan rotation and a tilt angle to aim the digital still picture camera and the rangefinder at the selected media site object block . In the illustrated example the camera positioner interface sets the pan rotation and the tilt angle of the camera and the rangefinder by controlling the pan tilt mechanism to position the MAST to position the field of view of the digital still picture camera so that the advertisement object of interest is in substantially the center of the field of view of the camera . Additionally or alternatively the pan rotation and the tilt angle of the camera and the rangefinder can be controlled manually as described above in connection with . In some example implementations the MAST can be provided with a manually controlled pan tilt adjustment mechanism to allow a user to perform coarse position adjustments of the MAST and can also be provided with the electronic pan tilt mechanism to enable the camera positioner interface to automatically control fine position adjustments.

The rangefinder FIGS. A and A C measures the distance to the media site block . That is the rangefinder determines a distance value representative of a distance between the digital camera and the media site object of interest selected by the user. The camera controller of the user interface apparatus determines a zoom level block at which to set the digital camera to capture an image of the user specified media site. In the illustrated example the camera controller determines the zoom level based on the distance measured by the rangefinder at block so that the digital camera can capture at least a portion of the media site object specified by the user at block . The camera controller then sets the zoom level of the digital camera block and triggers the digital camera to capture one or more images of the media site block .

The user interface apparatus causes the GPS receiver to determine the current location of the MAST block . The data interface of the user interface apparatus stores the zoom level of the digital camera the distance to the user specified media site the captured image s the pan and tilt angles of the digital camera and the rangefinder the location information of the MAST and a timestamp indicative of a time at which the digital camera captured the media site image s block . Using the GPS location the pan and tilt angles and the distance to the media site the location information generator of the user interface apparatus determines the location of the media site block . An example manner in which the location information generator can determine location coordinates indicative of the location of the media site at block is described below in connection with . The example process of ends by for example returning control to the example process of .

In the triangle B a direction of travel line represents a heading of the MAST e.g. the heading of a vehicle carrying the MAST . A first angle defined by the travel line and a first leg of the triangle B represents the angular heading of the MAST e.g. the vehicle carrying the MAST relative to an x axis of the Cartesian coordinate system i.e. the MAST travel angle . The MAST travel angle can be provided by the digital compass or the GPS receiver FIGS. A and A C . A second angle D defined by the travel line and a hypotenuse of the triangle B represents the angle of the rangefinder relative to the heading of the MAST i.e. the rangefinder MAST heading angle . The rangefinder MAST heading angle can be provided by the pan tilt mechanism . Alternatively in a manually controlled MAST as depicted in the rangefinder MAST heading angle can be provided by the rotary encoder . An angle defined by the hypotenuse and the first leg of the triangle B represents the angle between the location X Y of the media site and the x axis of the Cartesian coordinate system. The angle can be determined as described below in connection with equation 3.

In the illustrated example equation 1 below is used to determine the MAST to media site ground distance G and equation 2 below is used to determine the media site height H . cosine Equation 1 sine Equation 2 In equation 1 above the MAST to media site ground distance G is determined by multiplying the MAST to media site range R by the cosine of the tilt angle . In equation 2 above the media site height H is determined by multiplying the MAST to media site range R by the sine of the tilt angle .

In the illustrated example of in which the media site is located to the right of the direction of travel line equation 3 below is used to determine the angle between the location X Y of the media site and the x axis of the Cartesian coordinate system. In other examples in which the media site is located to the left of the direction of travel line equation 4 below is used instead of equation 3 to determine the angle between the location X Y of the media site and the x axis of the Cartesian coordinate system. 1 2 Equation 3 1 2 Equation 4

As shown in the first leg of triangle B is labeled as X and the second leg is labeled as Y . The distance of the first leg X represents a distance extending between a right angle intersection of the first and second legs of triangle B and the location X Y of the MAST at a time at which the MAST captured an image of the media site . The distance of the second leg Y represents a distance extending between the right angle intersection and the location X Y of the MAST . In the illustrated example the distance X represented by the first leg is determined using equation 5 below and the distance Y represented by the second leg is determined using equation 6 below. cosine Equation 5 sine Equation 6 As shown in equation 5 above the distance X represented by the first leg of triangle B is determined by multiplying the MAST to media site ground distance G by the cosine of the angle . As shown in equation 6 above the distance Y represented by the second leg of triangle B is determined by multiplying the MAST to media site ground distance G by the sine of the angle .

In the illustrated example the media site location X Y is determined using equation 7 and 8 below. 2 1 Equation 7 2 1 Equation 8 As shown above in equation 7 above the x axis location coordinate X of the media site is determined by adding the x axis location coordinate X of the MAST to the distance X represented by the first leg of triangle B. As shown in equation 8 above the y axis location coordinate Y of the media site is determined by adding the y axis location coordinate Y of the MAST to the distance Y represented by the second leg of triangle B.

The processor platform of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor . The processor executes coded instructions and or present in main memory of the processor e.g. within a RAM and or a ROM . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor may execute among other things the example processes of to implement the example MAST the example site data merger and or the example survey planner described herein. The processor is in communication with the main memory including a ROM and or the RAM via a bus . The RAM may be implemented by DRAM SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory and may be controlled by a memory controller not shown . The RAM may be used to store and or implement for example one or more audible messages used by an interactive voice response system and or one or more user interfaces.

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as a USB interface a Bluetooth interface an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices and one or more output devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input devices and or output devices may be used to implement for example the example displays and of .

When the modified MAST reaches a location of a sign to be audited the modified MAST uses the pan tilt mechanism to point a high resolution camera at the location of the sign. The camera is then actuated to take a first high resolution photograph of the sign being audited. The geocodes provided by the GPS receiver at the time of the first photograph are recorded in association with the first photograph. Similarly the pan tilt angles of the camera and or the date s and time s at which the photographs are taken are recorded in association with the first photograph. The geographic location information allows triangulation of the site s geographic location.

The user interface apparatus then waits for the MAST to move a distance to a second location wherein the sign is expected to still be within photographic range of the camera . The modified MAST again uses the pan tilt mechanism to adjust the camera and point the high resolution camera at the location of the sign. The camera is then actuated to take a second high resolution photograph of the sign being audited. The geocodes provided by the GPS receiver at the time of the second photograph are recorded in association with the second photograph. Similarly the pan tilt angles of the camera and or the date s and time s at which the photographs are taken are recorded in association with the second photograph.

The collected photographs and associated data are then used to compare the actual signage photographed to the signage identified in a database. For example billboard owners are often paid a fee to display an advertisement e.g. an advertisement for Movie A on particular billboard s e.g. a billboard at intersection B for particular dates e.g. the month of June 2008 . A database is created reflecting the identity of the advertisement the billboard s on which it is to be displayed and the time frame. The photographs and geographic location information collected by the modified MAST can then be automatically and or manually compared against the data in the database to determine whether the billboard owner is in fact complying with the requirements of the advertisement purchase. To ensure this comparison is meaningful e.g. to avoid tampering by the billboard owner the database is preferably maintained by the advertiser and or by a neutral third party e.g. The Nielsen Company who is provided with the relevant data by the advertiser the advertising agency the billboard owner and or any other entity. In this example the information provided to the neutral third party is at least partially based on a contract to provide advertising services via at least in part indoor and or outdoor signage. In this way the neutral third party can develop provide and or sell reports verifying that billboard owners are meeting their contractual obligations. In addition the neutral third party can provide reports reflecting the condition s of the various signage to ensure that the advertisement is being displayed at a sufficient e.g. contracted for quality level.

As mentioned above the photographs and geographic location information collected by the modified MAST can be automatically and or manually compared against the data in the database to determine whether the billboard owner is in fact complying with the requirements of the advertisement purchase. Automatic comparison can be performed using image recognition techniques. For example optical character recognition can be employed to detect one or more logos appearing in the photographs of the signage. Methods and apparatus to recognize logos are described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 986 723 filed on Nov. 9 2007 and entitled Methods and Apparatus to Measure Brand Exposure in Media Streams which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Alternatively or additionally a manual visual comparison of the photographs collected by the modified MAST can be compared to a stored image of the advertisement expected to be carried by the signage to verify compliance.

In other examples the modified MAST is used to collect other types of information from indoor or outdoor signage. For instance in some examples a technique similar to that described above is employed to collect images of movable letter signage at fuel or petroleum e.g. gas stations with the modified MAST . The gas prices appearing on the signage photographed by the MAST can be recognized using optical character recognition analysis to develop lists statistics and or economic indicators about gas prices and or other economic indicators such as for example oil prices oil supplies a recession currency values consumer confidence or any other bellwether or index that correlates even remotely with the price of fuel. For example statistics indicating the average gas price in a particular geographic location a city village neighborhood state country etc. the average gas prices for particular retailers e.g. British Petroleum BP Conoco etc can be calculated. If enough modified MAST systems are employed the gas price statistics can be developed in near real time so that the data is extremely current. The gas price statistics including for example the best gas prices in a particular region can be published in any form to assist consumers in their purchase decisions. For example the gas price numbers can be broadcast via the Internet and downloaded to consumers in their automobiles via for instance satellite wifi or any other broadcast medium. In some examples the downloaded information is integrated into navigation systems in the automobiles to guide or direct consumers to a particular fuel station that has low priced gas.

Other examples of auditing movable letter signage abound. For instance in some examples the modified MAST is utilized to photograph movie theater signage to collect data concerning motion pictures. The data collected could be used to determine the number of movie theaters running a particular movie e.g. a geographic area of interest the length of time a given movie remains in theaters etc. In addition the data collected by the modified MAST could be used to create reports that enable movie distributors to verify that they are receiving appropriate compensation from movie theaters e.g. movie theaters are not running movies outside of e.g. before or after the contracted for time frame . In such verification examples the photographs taken by the MAST are preferably date and time stamped to facilitate comparison to appropriate contract terms and or payment records. For example this example method of monitoring the distribution of motion pictures may be used to detect whether royalties were paid for showing the motion picture on a particular date and to generate a report based on the detection. In addition unauthorized distribution of a motion picture may also be detected.

In other example implementations the modified MAST is used to audit the condition of signage to enable a signage provider to determine when signage is in need of repair or replacement. For example governmental agencies charged with providing road signage e.g. the US. Department of Transportation etc. are sometimes responsible for maintaining thousands of signs over thousands of miles of roadways. By programming the modified MAST with the location s of the sign s to be monitored the example auditing system is adapted to survey the condition of road signs and identify signs in need of repair or replacement. The process described above i.e. taking photographs with the modified MAST of the expected position of the road sign s and analyzing the photographs can be used to determine which if any sign s are in need of attention. Damaged signs can be detected by comparing the photograph of the sign to a recorded image of the expected appearance of the sign. The modified MAST may also be used to audit the environment proximate a road sign. For example as described herein if a road sign is obscured by fallen debris or any other growth of vegetation the environment proximate the road sign may need to be cleared. Furthermore the modified MAST may also be used to survey road signs and audit the road signs to determine if the road signs contain current information. When new streets access ramps and or traffic patterns for example are created road signs typically need to be updated to reflect the change. If a road sign has been overlooked and left unchanged the outdated signage may be located by methods and apparatus described herein. Other road signs in need of attention may be surveyed as well. Also as explained above these comparisons can be fully automated partially automated or manual.

In yet another example implementation the modified MAST A and or related methods may be used with a service such as for example Google Earth mapping or Street View services. Through such service a user could contract for example via the Internet for a vehicle or other operator to pass by and automatically or otherwise capture high resolution images of a particular location such as for example a house a stretch of road a lot of land etc. The service may provide the user with the images e.g. still or video substantially instantaneously e.g. via the Internet or a wireless communications service or at a later time and or date. This implementation may be used by a user to for a multitude of purposes including for example monitoring a house or other property the user has for sale monitoring a house or other property the user is considering buying checking on hotels the user is considering visiting monitoring the user s own home while away on vacation or business etc. Furthermore mortgage companies or other business may use the service to monitor or investigate general or specific conditions of their current or prospective holdings.

In a further example implementation a business may use the modified MAST A and or related methods to monitor its franchises and or its competition. For example a business such as McDonalds could use or contract use of the modified MAST A and or related methods to have images or videos of one or more restaurant location s captured to monitor an appearance of the restaurant s . Also a business such as for example Blockbuster could use or contract use of the modified MAST A and or related methods to have its competition video photographed for market research purposes. Furthermore in the example implementations in which use of the modified MAST A and or related methods is contracted through a service provider for example on an on demand basis the modified MAST A may be mounted for example on taxi cabs and the dispatching i.e. implementation of the service could be a passenger less filler task between paying fares.

The example signage auditing system details of which of are shown in may be used to audit a media site to verify that information recorded about the media site such as for example the information stored in the site database described above is accurate and or to verify that the media site is being operated in accordance with contractually agreed terms. For example the system may be used to verify that a media site is in the exact location described to an advertiser is illuminated contains certain names trademarks words characters images prices or other indicia is a particular type of signage or other advertisement etc.

The example system includes a controller that may include in whole or in part the survey planner described above. The controller determines one or more media location s to be surveyed or audited. Data associated with the media sites to be surveyed is stored in a memory which may include at least some of the data detailed above with respect to the site database and or the data described above with respect to including for example a recorded location of the media site a recorded condition of the media site a sign type and or recorded indicia e.g. an expected advertisement as detailed herein.

The example system further includes a modified MAST A. The modified MAST A is substantially similar to the MAST described above in connection with . However the example modified MAST A of has been modified to include an instructor . The instructor instructs a person driving a vehicle or person carrying the modified MAST A e.g. an employee or contractor of an advertiser or a third party auditing company to a location at or proximate the indoor or outdoor signage to be surveyed. The location s to be surveyed are supplied by the modified MAST A using any suitable communications media e.g. a wired or wireless connection via the Internet etc. . The instructor of the illustrated example includes and or interfaces with a navigation program and a database of street maps. The navigation program utilizes the location information provided by the GPS receiver and the street maps to provide directions to the person moving the modified MAST A through any suitable audio or visual signal. Once the MAST A is within photographic range of a media site to be photographed the pan tilt mechanism of the modified MAST A directs the camera to capture a first image of the media site. The modified MAST A includes a memory or storage medium to record the photograph in association with the position of the camera . In the illustrated example the modified MAST A records the geocode of the precise location of where the first image was captured. Once the first image is captured the instructor instructs the driver to move to a second location at or proximate the same media site to be surveyed. The second location is different than the first location. Once the modified MAST A is in the second location the MAST A once again directs the camera to a certain tilt pan zoom etc. to capture a second image of the media site to be surveyed. The MAST A also records the position e.g. the geocode of the second location.

The modified MAST A transfers the data it collects to a comparator . The modified MAST A can be communicatively coupled to the comparator and or the controller using any past present or future networking and or communication technology. In the illustrated example the comparator is implemented by a central facility of an auditing company that collects and analyzes data from a plurality of modified MASTs A.

The comparator can process the data collected by the MAST s A in any manner suitable for the intended application. For example if the application is to verify the location of a media site such as a billboard the comparator reviews the first and second photographs taken by the modified MAST A of the location of the media site recorded in the database. In other words the MAST A captures images of the location where the media site is supposed to be. If the media site is at or near the recorded location the media site will appear in both the first and the second images. If the media site is not shown in both of the images then the comparator concludes that the location of the media site is incorrectly recorded in the database. To determine the actual location of the media site when the media site does appear in both the first and the second images the comparator processes the data from both the first and the second images with for example the triangulation techniques described above.

If the system is being utilized for another purpose such as verifying that an advertisement is being displayed at a billboard in accordance with an agreed contract then the comparator analyzes one or both of the photographs taken by the modified MAST A of the billboard in question against an image of the advertisement that is expected to be displayed on the billboard to determine a match or a lack of a match and thus perform the desired verification.

The example process of begins with determining one or more media sites to be surveyed or audited block . The geocodes and other recorded data for each media site in the list of the media sites to be surveyed is uploaded block for example into a memory of the modified MAST A. The following example assumes the modified MAST A is mounted on a roof of a vehicle. As noted above other examples do utilize not a vehicle .

The instructor directs the driver of a vehicle or other operator carrying the MAST A to a location that is within a certain range of the recorded location of the media site block . The instructions may be in the form of any type of audio and or visual signals. For example the instructions may be played through speakers by navigation software associated with the MAST A. In addition the instructions may be provided in any level of detail including for example turn by turn instructions to explicitly guide the operator to the recorded location.

After it is determined that the image capture device is within a certain range of the recorded location of the media site block the modified MAST A adjusts the settings of the image capture device e.g. tilt pan zoom as detailed above a first image of the recorded location is captured and the location e.g. geocodes of the location from which the first image was captured is recorded block . As noted above the captured image may be a still image a video a sound a high resolution photograph etc. In addition other data e.g. a timestamp may be recorded as well.

Next the instructor directs the operator to travel a short distance block to a second location. The second location is also within photographic range of the recorded location of the media site. The image capture device settings are adjusted a second image is captured of the recorded location of the media site from the second location and the location of the second location e.g. geocodes and or the MAST A at the time of the photograph is recorded block . As noted above the captured image may be a still image a video a sound a high resolution photograph etc. In addition other data e.g. a timestamp may be recorded as well.

The example process also determines if another media site is to be audited block . If so control returns to block . If no other media sites are to be audited control advances to block .

Characteristics of the recorded location of the media site are determined from the first and or second images block . For example the actual location of the media site may be calculated through one or more triangulation techniques. In addition any or all of the condition of the media site the indicia included on the media site and or the type of media presented on the media site may be determined from the first and or second images. The characteristics of the media site are compared to the recorded characteristics block by for example the comparator . The comparison determines the accuracy of the recorded data e.g. the data saved in the databases detailed above and or whether the state of the media site matches an expected condition. If there is a discrepancy between an actual characteristic of the media site and the recorded data about the media site the recorded data may be updated and or a report of the discrepancy can be generated and or sold. In addition although described as occurring at the computer the determination of the characteristics of the recorded location of the media site block and the comparison block may occur at the first location the second location or anywhere else and at any time.

Information about any discrepancies may be particularly important for example to advertisers. For example an advertiser who paid for a billboard at a specific location off of a highway that is to be illuminated during certain hours for a specific number of weeks or days would be interested in any data about the actual characteristics of the media site. For example if the billboard is not illuminated the billboard may be visible to passing traffic for less than the agreed time every day. Also if a billboard is obstructed by overgrown vegetation the billboard may be less valuable to advertisers. The example process may also be used by media outlets consumer advocacy groups and or other companies for intelligence gathering such as for example to survey the price of gas at one or more gas stations to determine information about the advertising strategies of one or more competitors etc.

The processor platform shown and described in connection with can be used to execute the instructions of to implement the system of .

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

