---

title: Application of information management policies based on operation with a geographic entity
abstract: Techniques for providing data retention services based on a geographic region are disclosed. In one aspect, a location of a computing device is determined. A geographic entity corresponding to the location of the computing device is then determined. A data retention policy is applied to production data of the computing device based on regulations of the geographic entity. Other aspects are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633216&OS=09633216&RS=09633216
owner: Commvault Systems, Inc.
number: 09633216
owner_city: Tinton Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121227
---
A primary copy of data is generally a production copy or other live version of the data which is used by a software application and is generally in the native format of that application. Primary copy data may be maintained in a local memory or other high speed storage device that allows for relatively fast data access if necessary. Such primary copy data is typically intended for short term retention e.g. several hours or days before some or all of the data is stored as one or more secondary copies for example to prevent loss of data in the event a problem occurred with the data stored in primary storage.

To protect primary copy data or for other purposes such as regulatory compliance secondary copies alternatively referred to as data protection copies can be made. Examples of secondary copies include a backup copy a snapshot copy a hierarchical storage management HSM copy an archive copy and other types of copies.

A backup copy is generally a point in time copy of the primary copy data stored in a backup format as opposed to in native application format. For example a backup copy may be stored in a backup format that is optimized for compression and efficient long term storage. Backup copies generally have relatively long retention periods and may be stored on media with slower retrieval times than other types of secondary copies and media. In some cases backup copies may be stored at an offsite location.

After an initial full backup of a data set is performed periodic intermittent or continuous incremental backup operations may be subsequently performed on the data set. Each incremental backup operation copies only the primary copy data that has changed since the last full or incremental backup of the data set was performed. In this way even if the entire set of primary copy data that is backed up is large the amount of data that must be transferred during each incremental backup operation may be significantly smaller since only the changed data needs to be transferred to secondary storage. Combined one or more full backup and subsequent incremental copies may be utilized together to periodically or intermittently create a synthetic full backup copy. More details regarding synthetic storage operations are found in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 510 059 entitled Snapshot Storage and Management System with Indexing and User Interface filed Jul. 27 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 873 806 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

An archive copy is generally a copy of the primary copy data but typically includes only a subset of the primary copy data that meets certain criteria and is usually stored in a format other than the native application format. For example an archive copy might include only that data from the primary copy that is larger than a given size threshold or older than a given age threshold and that is stored in a backup format. Often archive data is removed from the primary copy and a stub is stored in the primary copy to indicate its new location. When a user requests access to the archive data that has been removed or migrated systems use the stub to locate the data and often make recovery of the data appear transparent even though the archive data may be stored at a location different from the remaining primary copy data.

Many countries explicitly or impliedly regulate the retention of data for organizations operating within those countries. For example in 2005 Italy adopted a European Union Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communications and requires Internet service providers to retain all data for at least 12 months. In response to the same European Union Directive Denmark began requiring all telephone and Internet providers to log certain data regarding the communication through their systems e.g. caller phone numbers communication cells used for telephone calls senders internet protocol IP addresses and receiver IP addresses. Until Germany s high court overturned the law in 2010 for two years Germany required any communications data such as email messages to be retained for at least 6 months. Other countries such as the United States do not have explicit regulations in place for which data must be retained but instead punish organizations for failure to retain or destroy data in a predetermined and systematic way. For example a court in the United States determined that a college was negligent for deleting an email mailbox of a former employee because the college appeared to destroy the mailbox in a way that was inconsistent with a college wide and systematic policy. The simple deletion of the email mailbox cost the college approximately 750 000.

For information technology IT groups of companies and organizations operating in within multiple countries implementing data retention policies for each country can be challenging especially when employees travel as part of their work. As an example consider an employee who travels with a mobile device such as a laptop from the U.S. to Denmark for a week to Italy for a week and then back to the U.S. If an IT group implements a data retention policy that complies with the most restrictive regulation of any country the employee works within many more data storage resources may be consumed than are required in the least restrict regulations. However if members of the IT group fail to properly retain data in compliance with each country s regulations fines for non compliance against the company or organization could become costly. Additionally dedicating members of an IT group to the task of tracking the travels of each employee for the purpose of changing the data retention policies of the each employee s mobile device may increase overhead costs associated with operations of the company or organization.

The need exists for systems and methods that overcome the above problems as well as systems and methods that provide additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and methods and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems and methods will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

The techniques disclosed in this document are useful in solving the above discussed problems relating to the application of information management policies based on operations within a geographic entity or region such as a state. In some aspects a system determines and applies information management policies based on regulations governing the geographic entity in which a computing device is operates. In other aspects the system varies the information management policy of the computing device based on the network connection speeds between the system and the computing device. In other aspects the system provides security features for the computing device such as remote erasure of primary or production copies data based on the geographic entity or region within which the computing device is operated. Other features and advantages of the system are described below.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the disclosure.

Disclosed are systems and methods for applying information management policies based on operations within geographic entities. As used herein a geographic entity or region may include any politically recognized or disputed entity having one or more geographic boundaries such as countries territories providences prefectures states districts counties cities townships and the like. Many geographic entities have regulations for governing data retention which differ from the data retention regulations of other geographic entities. Information technology IT groups are tasked with ensuring that appropriate data information management policies are applied to each static or mobile computing device operating within a geographic boundary. However as businesses geographically diversify and as business travel for employees increases in frequency and geographic diversity updating information management policies based on geographic entities and for companies having mobile computing devices used by traveling employees may become both time and resource consuming.

The systems and methods disclosed below enable automated application of geographic entity based information management policies. As used herein an information management policy may include rules for scheduling the creation of non production copies of data data retention migration of data to archive restoration of non production copies of data and information security. In one aspect the system determines a location of a computing device determines the geographic entity associated with the location determines an information management policy based on regulations of the geographic entity and applies the information management policy to the production copy of data on the computing device. In response to the computing device moving across geographic boundaries of geographic entities the system may change the frequency of secondary copy operations the duration of data retention the type of secondary copy made or the like. In another aspect the system may change the frequency or type of secondary copy operations as the computing device moves closer to or further from an information management host. In another aspect the system may change the frequency or type of secondary copy operations as network connection speeds between an information management host and the computing device improves or deteriorates.

The disclosed systems and methods also enable automated application of geographic based security features. In one aspect the system determines a location of a computing device determines a geographic based rule for operating the computing device and selectively erases or wipes the primary copy of data on the computing device if the computing device is operating within a prohibited geographic entity or region. In other aspects the system may enable a user to view a webpage that displays the logged locations of the computing device and indicate via the webpage that the computing device was lost or stolen e.g. if the user does not recognize the last logged location of the computing device. Through the webpage the user may execute a remote erasure or wipe of the production copy of data on the computing device.

Various examples of the systems and methods will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the relevant art will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the relevant art will also understand that the invention may include many other obvious features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description.

The terminology used below is to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the invention. Indeed certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

Aspects of the geographic entity based system and related technologies described herein may be practiced in an information management environment which will now be described while referencing . As shown in the environment includes multiple computing devices that execute numerous software applications to facilitate the operations of an organization or multiple affiliated organizations such as a household corporation or other business entity a non profit organization an educational institution or a governmental agency. The computing devices may include one or more servers such as mail servers file servers database servers print servers and web servers personal computers workstations or other types of fixed computing systems such as mainframe computers and minicomputers not shown . The servers may include network attached storage NAS filers.

The environment may include virtualized computing resources such as a virtual machine provided to the organization by a third party cloud service vendor or a virtual machine running on a virtual machine host operated by the organization. For example the organization may use one virtual machine A as a database server and another virtual machine B as a mail server. The environment may also include mobile or portable computing devices such as laptops tablet computers personal data assistants mobile phones such as smartphones and other mobile or portable computing devices such as embedded computers set top boxes vehicle mounted devices wearable computers etc.

Of course other types of computing devices may form part of the environment . As part of their function each of these computing devices creates accesses modifies writes and otherwise uses production copies of data and metadata that are typically stored in a persistent storage medium having fast I O times. For example each computing device may regularly access and modify data files and metadata stored on semiconductor memory a local disk drive or a network attached storage device. Each of these computing devices may access data and metadata via a file system supported by an operating system of the computing device.

In some implementations production copies of data and metadata also include data that is not always stored in a persistent storage medium and may include some or all of any communications information and logged captured metadata e.g. internet protocol IP addresses media access control MAC addresses universal resource locators URL etc. for network nodes access points access sites and the like. Production copies of data and metadata may also include identification of other devices that are communicated with or connected to as well as information related to the locations of the devices during the communications and or connections e.g. global positioning system GPS data.

The environment may also include hosted services that provide various online services to the organization or its constituent members e.g. the organization s departments employees independent contractors etc. such as social networking services e.g. Facebook Twitter Pinterest hosted email services e.g. Gmail Yahoo Mail Hotmail or hosted productivity applications or other hosted applications e.g. Microsoft Office Google Docs Salesforce.com . Hosted services may include software as a service SaaS platform as a service PaaS application service providers ASPs cloud services and all manner of delivering computing or functionality via a network. As it provides services to users each hosted service may generate additional hosted data and metadata that is associated with each user. For example Facebook may generate and store photos wall posts notes videos and other content that are associated with a particular Facebook user s account.

The organization directly or indirectly employs an information management system to protect and manage the data and metadata used by the various computing devices in the environment and the data and metadata that is maintained by hosted services on behalf of users associated with the organization. One example of an information management system is the CommVault Simpana system available from CommVault Systems Inc. of Oceanport N.J. The information management system creates and manages non production copies of the data and metadata to meet information management goals such as permitting the organization to restore data metadata or both data and metadata if an original copy of the data metadata is lost e.g. by deletion corruption or disaster or because of a service interruption by a hosted service allowing data to be recovered from a previous time complying with regulatory data retention and electronic discovery e discovery requirements reducing the amount of data storage media used facilitating data organization and search improving user access to data files across multiple computing devices and or hosted services and implementing information lifecycle management ILM or other data retention policies for the organization. The information management system may create the additional non production copies of the data and metadata on any suitable non production storage medium such as magnetic disks magnetic tapes other storage media such as solid state storage devices or optical disks or on cloud data storage sites e.g. those operated by third party vendors . Further details on the information management system may be found in the assignee s U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 751 850 filed Mar. 31 2010 entitled DATA OBJECT STORE AND SERVER FOR A CLOUD STORAGE ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING DATA DEDUPLICATION AND DATA MANAGEMENT ACROSS MULTIPLE CLOUD STORAGE SITES now U.S. Patent Publication Number 2010 0332456 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The information management system accesses or receives copies of the various production copies of data objects and metadata and via an information management operation such as a backup operation archive operation or snapshot operation creates non production copies of these data objects and metadata often stored in one or more non production storage mediums different than the production storage medium where the production copies of the data objects and metadata reside. A non production copy of a data object represents the production data object and its associated metadata at a particular point in time non production objects A C . Since a production copy of a data object or metadata changes over time as it is modified by an application hosted service or the operating system the information management system may create and manage multiple non production copies of a particular data object or metadata each representing the state of the production data object or metadata at a particular point in time. Moreover since a production copy of a data object may eventually be deleted from the production data storage medium and the file system from which it originated the information management system may continue to manage point in time representations of that data object even though a production copy of the data object itself no longer exists.

For virtualized computing devices such as virtual machines the operating system and applications A D may be running on top of virtualization software and the production data storage medium may be a virtual disk created on a physical medium such as a physical disk. The information management system may create non production copies of the discrete data objects stored in a virtual disk file e.g. documents email mailboxes and spreadsheets and or non production copies of the entire virtual disk file itself e.g. a non production copy of an entire .vmdk file .

Each non production object A C may contain copies of or otherwise represent more than one production data object. For example non production object A represents three separate production data objects C and C represented as C and respectively . Moreover as indicated by the prime mark a non production object may store a representation of a production data object or metadata differently than the original format of the data object or metadata e.g. in a compressed encrypted deduplicated or otherwise optimized format. Although shows that a single production data object e.g. C and its associated data object metadata e.g. Meta11 are represented by the contents of only a single non production object e.g. A the entire contents of a single production data object and or its metadata at a particular point in time may instead span across numerous non production objects. Also a single non production object may contain copies of or otherwise represent production data objects that originated from different computing devices.

Non production copies include backup copies archive copies and snapshot copies. Backup copies are generally used for shorter term data protection and restoration purposes and may be in a native application format or in a non native format e.g. compressed encrypted deduplicated and or otherwise modified from the original application format . Archive copies are generally used for long term data storage purposes and may be compressed encrypted deduplicated and or otherwise modified from the original application format. In some examples when an archive copy of a data object is made a logical reference or stub may be used to replace the production copy of the data object in the production storage medium . In such examples the stub may point to or otherwise reference the archive copy of the data object stored in the non production storage medium so that the information management system can retrieve the archive copy if needed. The stub may also include some metadata associated with the data object so that a file system and or application can provide some information about the data object and or a limited functionality version e.g. a preview of the data object. A snapshot copy represents a data object at a particular point in time. A snapshot copy can be made quickly and without significantly impacting production computing resources because large amounts of data need not be copied or moved. A snapshot copy may include a set of pointers derived from the file system or an application where each pointer points to a respective stored data block so collectively the set of pointers reflect the storage location and state of the data object at a particular point in time when the snapshot copy was created. In copy on write if a block of data is to be deleted or changed the snapshot process writes the block to a particular data storage location and the pointer for that block is now directed to that particular location. The set of pointers and or the set of blocks pointed to by a snapshot may be stored within the production data storage medium .

Non production copies of a data object or metadata may be distinguished from a production copy of a data object or metadata in several ways. First a non production copy of a data object is created to meet the different information management goals described above and is not directly used or modified by applications A D hosted services or the operating system . Second a non production copy of a data object is stored as one or more non production objects that may have a format different from the native application format of the production copy of the data object and thus often cannot be directly used by the native application or a hosted service without first being modified. Third non production objects are often stored on a non production storage medium that is inaccessible to the applications A D running on computing devices and hosted services . Also some non production copies may be offline copies in that they are not readily available e.g. not mounted tape or disk. Offline copies include copies of data that the information management system can access without any human intervention e.g. tapes within an automated tape library but not yet mounted in a drive and copies that the information management system can access only with at least some human intervention e.g. tapes located at an offsite storage site .

The information management system also generates information management data such as indexing information that permit the information management system to perform its various information management tasks. As shown in a computing device may include one or more data management agents that provide client side functions for the information management system.

The storage manager may be a software module or other application that coordinates and controls information management operations performed by one or more information management cells to protect and control copies of non production data objects and metadata. As shown by the dashed lines and the storage manager may communicate with some or all elements of the information management cell such as the media agents and computing devices to initiate and manage backup operations snapshot operations archive operations data replication operations data migrations data distributions data recovery and other information management operations. The storage manager may control additional information management operations including ILM deduplication content indexing data classification data mining or searching e discovery management collaborative searching encryption and compression. Alternatively or additionally a storage manager may control the creation and management of disaster recovery copies which are often created as secondary high availability disk copies using auxiliary copy or replication technologies.

The storage manager may include a jobs agent a management agent a network agent and an interface agent all of which may be implemented as interconnected software modules or application programs. The jobs agent monitors the status of information management operations previously performed currently being performed or scheduled to be performed by the information management cell . The management agent provides an interface that allows various management agents in multiple information management cells or in a global storage manager to communicate with one another. This allows each information management cell to exchange status information routing information capacity and utilization information and information management operation instructions or policies with other cells. In general the network agent provides the storage manager with the ability to communicate with other components within the information management cell and the larger information management system e.g. via proprietary or non proprietary network protocols and application programming interfaces APIs including HTTP HTTPS FTP REST virtualization software APIs cloud service provider APIs hosted service provider APIs . The interface agent includes information processing and display software such as a graphical user interface GUI an API or other interactive interface through which users and system processes can retrieve information about the status of information management operations or issue instructions to the information management cell and its constituent components. The storage manager may also track information that permits it to select designate or otherwise identify content indices deduplication databases or similar databases within its information management cell or another cell to be searched in response to certain queries.

The storage manager may also maintain information management data such as a database of management data and policies. The database may include a management index that stores logical associations between components of the system user preferences user profiles that among other things map particular information management users to computing devices or hosted services management tasks or other useful data. The database may also include various information management policies which are generally data structures or other information sources that each include a set of criteria and rules associated with performing an information management operation. The criteria may be used to determine which rules apply to a particular data object system component or information management operation an may include 

As noted above each computing device may include one or more data management agents . Each data management agent is a software module or component that helps govern communications with other system components. For example the data management agent receives commands from the storage manager and sends to and receives from media agents copies of data objects metadata and other payload as indicated by the heavy arrows . Each data management agent accesses data and or metadata stored in a production data storage medium and arranges or packs the data and metadata in a certain format e.g. backup or archive format before it is transferred to another component. Each data management agent can also restore a production copy of a data object or metadata in a production data storage medium from a non production copy. A data management agent may perform some functions provided by a media agent which are described further herein such as compression encryption or deduplication. Each data management agent may be specialized for a particular application e.g. a specified data management agent customized to handle data generated or used by Exchange by Microsoft Corp. . Alternatively or additionally a more generic data management agent may handle data generated or used by two or more applications.

Each computing device may also include a data distribution and live browsing client module herein distribution client module . The distribution client module is responsible for inter alia associating mobile devices and or hosted service accounts with users of the information management system setting information management policies for mobile and other computing devices pushing data objects to a distribution module for distribution to other computing devices providing unified access to a user s data via an interface and providing live browsing features. The various functions of the distribution client module are described in greater detail herein.

A media agent which may be implemented as a software module conveys data as directed by the storage manager between a computing device or hosted service and one or more non production storage mediums . Each media agent may control one or more intermediary storage devices such as a cloud server or a tape or magnetic disk library management system to read write or otherwise manipulate data stored in a non production storage medium . Each media agent may be considered to be associated with a storage device and its related non production storage media if that media agent is capable of routing data to and storing data in the storage media managed by the particular storage device. A media agent may communicate with computing devices hosted services storage devices A D and the storage manager via any suitable communications path including SCSI a Storage Area Network SAN a Fibre Channel communications link or a wired wireless or partially wired wireless computer or telecommunications network including the Internet.

To perform its functions the media agent may include a media file system module a data classification module a content indexing module a deduplication module an encryption module a compression module a network module a distribution module and a media agent database . The media file system module is responsible for reading writing archiving copying migrating restoring accessing moving sparsifying deleting sanitizing destroying or otherwise performing file system operations on various non production storage devices of disparate types. The media file system module may also instruct the storage device to use a robotic arm or other retrieval means to load or eject certain storage media such as a tape.

The network module permits the media agent to communicate with other components within the system and hosted services via one or more proprietary and or non proprietary network protocols or APIs including cloud service provider APIs virtual machine management APIs and hosted service provider APIs . The deduplication module performs deduplication of data objects and or data blocks to reduce data redundancy in the cell. The deduplication module may generate and store data structures to manage deduplicated data objects such as deduplication tables in the media agent database . The encryption module performs encryption of data objects data blocks or non production objects to ensure data security in the cell. The compression module performs compression of data objects data blocks or non production objects to reduce the data capacity needed in the cell.

The content indexing module analyzes the contents of production copies or non production copies of data objects and or their associated metadata and catalogues the results of this analysis along with the storage locations of or references to the production or non production copies in a content index stored within a media agent database . The results may also be stored elsewhere in the system e.g. in the storage manager along with a non production copy of the data objects and or an index cache. Such index data provides the media agent or another device with an efficient mechanism for locating production copies and or non production copies of data objects that match particular criteria. The index data or other analyses of data objects or metadata may also be used by the data classification module to associate data objects with classification identifiers such as classification tags in the media agent database or other indices to facilitate information management policies and searches of stored data objects.

The distribution module may be a set of instructions that coordinates the distribution of data objects and indices of data objects. The distribution may occur from one computing device to another computing device and or from hosted services to computing devices . As a first example the distribution module may collect and manage data and metadata from hosted services or mobile devices . As another example the distribution module may synchronize data files or other data objects that are modified on one computing device so that the same modified files or objects are available on another computing device. As yet another example the distribution module may distribute indices of data objects that originated from multiple computing devices and or hosted services so a user can access all of their data objects through a unified user interface or a native application on their computing device. The distribution module may also initiate live browse sessions to permit communications between different computing devices so that the devices can interchange data and metadata or so the devices can provide computing resources such as applications to each other. The functions performed by the distribution module are described in greater detail herein.

A brief overview of certain aspects of the techniques described in greater detail below is now provided. Regulations for managing information e.g. data retention may change from one geographic entity or region to another. Manually updating information management policies manual may be a challenge for IT groups because of the frequency and ease with which employees travel with mobile or portable computing devices. Some of the techniques disclosed herein relate to determining and or adjusting information management policies based on which geographic entity a computing device operates within. The disclosed techniques advantageously provide information management services more responsively than management by a person and provide information management services requiring support from significantly less personnel resources.

Aspects of the technologies described herein may be practiced in an operational environment that includes one or more geographic entities or regions. Operational environment will now be described while referencing . As shown in operational environment may include any number of geographic entities. As noted above a geographic entity or region may include any politically recognized or disputed entity having one or more geographic boundaries. Examples of geographic boundaries or entities include but are not limited to continents countries territories providences districts prefectures states counties ownership disputed lands e.g. China Sea Islands the Gaza strip oceans lakes sounds rivers and seas. Geographic boundaries may also include the airspace above any one or more of the identified types of geographic boundaries as well as the land or water beneath any one or more of the identified geographic boundaries on Earth. For illustration purposes a subset of geographic boundaries are illustrated from the Pacific Northwest of the United States and the Pacific Southwest of Canada. While the subset of geographic boundaries identifies portions of the United States and Canada for illustration purposes any set or subset of geographic boundaries on above or below Earth s surface may be used to implement aspects of the disclosed technologies.

Operational environment may include servers inclusive of servers A and B communicatively coupled and configured to provide information management services to one or more computing devices according to geographic entity based information management policies. Each of servers may include one or more components of an information management cell . For example server A may include storage manager and media agent A shown in . In other implementations server A may include just one of storage manager and media agent A. B may include media agent B and may alternatively include storage manager . In each of the disclosed examples the servers may include or may be configured to communicate with one or more intermediary storage devices and or one or more non production storage mediums to store secondary copies of data shown in .

One aspect of providing geographic entity based information management services includes providing secondary copy services. The servers may provide and adjust secondary copy services to the computing device based on the geographic entity in which computing device operates or based on the regulations of the geographic entity in which the computing device operates The servers can adjust several aspects of the secondary copy services such as the type of copies the frequency of the copies and the scope of information included in copies based on data classification. For example the server A may receive information from computing device indicating that computing device is operating in province A. In response to receiving information indicative of the location of computing device or in response to determining the location of computing device the server A may determine or adjust the secondary copy data retention data restoration or other information management services provided to computing devices . For example server A may be configured to perform a full backup copy of the production data of computing device and be configured to subsequently create continuous incremental backup copies of the production data of computing device while computing device is located in province A.

If however the server A determines that the location of computing device is within province B or C the server A may downgrade the backup services from creating continuous incremental backup copies so that the server A only creates periodic e.g. once a day or intermittent e.g. twice a week backup copies. Advantageously the server A may be configured to adjust the information management services provided to computing device to compensate for increases in distance and degradation of connectedness between the server A and the computing device .

While the example of decreasing the periodicity of backup operations is provided above to comply with geographic entity backup regulations the server may alternatively increase the frequency or quality of backup service provided in response to the computing device moving from one geographic entity to another. To illustrate the server A may be configured to increase the frequency or quality of backup services provided to computing device in response to the computing device moving from the province A to province B. While the computing device is located and operated in the province A the server A may be configured to capture perform periodic backup operations with a first frequency such as once a week. However to comply with regulations of the province B which may differ from backup regulations for province A the server A may be configured to periodically perform periodic backup operations of the computing device once every two days or once every day while the computing device is operated in the province B.

In some implementations the server A may be configured to create less resource intensive types of backup copies to compensate for the increased frequency of backup operations. For example when computing device transitions operations from province A to province B the server A may increase the frequency of backup copies but may create snapshot backup copies rather than creating full backup copies. Transitioning to snapshot backup operations advantageously reduces the bandwidth consumed between computing device and server A during the backup operations while enabling the server A to comply with information management regulations of the province B.

In some implementations the server A may apply different rules for backup operations when computing device transitions operations from the first country to the second country to comply with governmental information management regulations hereafter regulations of the second country which may be different than regulations of the first country . For example in response to computing device transitioning operations from province B of the first country to the state C of the second country server A may continue creating periodic full backup copies with the frequency of once every two days or once every day. However to comply with regulations that may exist in the second country server A may increase the data retention duration for non production copies or for archive copies of data created from production data generating while computing device operates in the second country e.g. from retaining copies of financial data for 5 years to retaining copies for 7 years. Alternatively or additionally server A may increase the frequency of periodic full backup operations from once a day to twice a day to comply with data backup regulations that may exist in the second country .

The server A may cooperate with the server B to jointly host or provide geographic based information management services to computing device . If for example the computing device is operating in the second country and network connection speeds between computing device and server B are faster than the connection speeds between computing device and server A then server A may be configured to transfer responsibility providing backup service for computing device to server B. In other words based on the location of operation of computing device a storage manager that is located in province A may transition responsibility for computing device from a media agent A located in province A to a media agent that is located nearer to computing device or to a media agent which may share faster connection speeds with computing device such as media agent B which may be part of server B. In other implementations the server A may include a storage manager for a first information management cell e.g. A and may transfer all records and responsibility to the server B which may be a storage manager for a second information management cell e.g. B in response to the computing device moving from the first country to the second country .

Copy operations may be implemented based on a combination of geographic and data classification criteria. For example the system may classify data and permit specific data management operations to be performed in part based on those classifications. More details regarding data classification are found in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 564 119 entitled Systems and Methods for Classifying and Transferring Information in a Storage Network filed Nov. 28 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 668 884 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. As an example the system may classify data based on author editor recipient e.g. a company s CEO based on a department e.g. the accounting department of the company based on a project name e.g. all documents associated with Project Spock and so on. Then based on geographic criteria the system may combine data classification rules and geographic location rules to perform specific data copy or data management operations as described in detail herein.

In addition to providing secondary copy services to computing device based on the geographic entity within which computing device operates servers may also provide location based data restoration services. Servers A and B are two examples of many servers that may be located within various geographic entities around the world. Servers may be configured to move secondary copies of production data i.e. non production copies of data to a server that is located geographically closest to the location of operation of computing device . For example non production copies of data for computing device may be located on server A while computing device operates in province A. However when computing device is operated in state C the server A may be configured to transfer one or more non production copies of data for computing device to server B. Advantageously transferring one or more non production copies of data to server B may enable servers to restore production data to computing device more quickly.

In some implementations server A may be configured to transfer non production copies of data server B in response to computing device operating in the second country or in the state C for greater than a threshold time e.g. one week. Alternatively servers may be configured to transfer secondary copies of production data for computing device from one of servers to another based on which of the servers shares the fastest network connection speed with computing device .

Computing device may employ various techniques for acquiring and or providing its location or information that is relevant to its location. Computing device may include a location acquisition device configured to acquire the location at which communication device operates. According to various implementations location acquisition device may be one or more of a network communication device a satellite based communication device and a mobile communications device.

Location acquisition device may be a network communications device and computing device may determine its operating location based on communications with the network. For example computing device may use an assigned Internet protocol IP address information from an Internet service provider ISP information from an access point information from a gateway server and or information from a router to determine the city county district province state territory country or other geographic entity in which computing device is operating.

For example computing device may execute a script or other software agent that first determines its own IP address e.g. with the ipconfig command and next uses one or more internet based IP address lookup services. Some internet based IP address lookup services that return a city level granularity of the location of an IP address include www.geobytes.com IpLocator.htm www.ip2location.com www.whatismyip.com ip tools ip adress lookup and whatismyipaddress.com.

The computing device may instead be configured to use a software development kit SDK offered by e.g. Skyhook Wireless of Boston Mass. which claims to be able to determine the position of a mobile device with a Wi Fi position system with 10 20 meter accuracy. Alternatively or additionally the script may access an IP lookup database that is installed on the computing device such as the IP Country Database or the IP Country Region City Latitude Longitude ZIPCode Database which are available from IP2LOCATION . Computing device may be configured to further narrow its location by using other Internet based tools such as JiWire Wi Fi ZONE Finder or WiFinder to find a street address based on the name of a Wi Fi transceiver or router that may be providing a network connection to the computing device . Regardless of the location determining process technology used the computing device may then transmit this location information to one or more of the servers via a network.

Location acquisition device may be a satellite based communication device and computing device may determine its operating location via communications with one or more satellites. For example location acquisition device may be a global positioning satellite GPS receiver configured to determine latitude and longitude coordinates by using triangulation with a constellation of satellites orbiting the Earth. As another example location acquisition device may be a satellite transceiver configured to transmit and receive wireless communications with one or more satellites and may use communications techniques such as time domain reflectometry TDR to determine its location on the Earth. The computing device may then use one or more online or offline tools for translating latitude and longitude coordinates into a location having city level granularity. Examples of online tools include iTouchMap.com boulter.com gps maps.google.com and the like. Examples of offline tools include those available from www.openstreetmap.org www.digital topo maps.com gps coordinates or the like.

Location acquisition device may be a mobile communications device and computing device may determine its operating location with the location acquisition device via communications with one or more mobile communication cellular towers. Computing device may receive its location from the one or more mobile communications cellular towers through the location acquisition device directly or computing device may determine its location with respect to the one or more mobile communications cellular towers using various communications techniques such as those known to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example many mobile wireless carriers such as Verizon Wireless make application programming interface API information available to enable programmers and users subscribing to that carrier to programmatically determine the location of a wireless tower. In particular the Verizon Terminal Location API enables the development of mobile applications that provide information and services based on the current physical location of the subscriber. The Verizon Terminal Location API includes a getLocation function with which the computing device may determine its location based on the location of one or more Verizon wireless towers. Alternatively LOCAID of San Francisco Calif. has developed tools for determining the location of a mobile device using a mobile directory number MDN . LOCAID provides various API to enable programs to interface with its tool set. In particular LOCAID s Get X Y API can be used to obtain location information for the computing device and LOCAID s Address API can be used to obtain geographical information for the computing device such as address city and zip code.

Computing device includes several components or modules through which it may communicate its location to one or more servers . Computing device may communicate its location to servers through a distribution client through a data management agent or through some other software module operating on computing device . Using any of the techniques disclosed above computing device may determine its location in terms of latitude and longitude coordinates or in terms of a particular geographic entity e.g. a city state or country for use by servers .

Servers may be configured to determine which geographic entity computing device is operating within. In one aspect one or more servers may receive latitude and longitude coordinates from computing device and use one or more data structures such as a lookup table to determine the geographic boundary or entity to which the received coordinates correspond. In another aspect servers may receive an IP address from computing device and use a data structure or Internet based service to determine the location of the computing device .

Independent of the technique used by servers to acquire or determine the location of computing device servers may be configured to record log or otherwise keep track of the location of computing device and the respective dates and times the computing device operated at those locations. As will be discussed in more detail below servers may make logs for the location of computing device accessible to a user or and IT administrator of the computing device e.g. via a webpage.

Operational environment may employ a number of methods techniques and or steps to provide information management services to computing devices using one or more of the systems components or environment disclosed in . The following methods disclose examples of techniques that may be used to provide one or more of secondary copy data retention and restoration services for computing device based on the geographic entity or location where computing device is operated.

At a system acquires or determines a location of a computing device. The system may acquire or determine the location using any of the various techniques described above as well as others.

At the system may determine which geographic entity if any corresponds to the determined the location of the computing device. The system may acquire or determine the location using any of the various techniques described above as well as others.

At the system applies an information management policy to the production data of the computing device based on the regulations of the geographic entity in which the computing device produces the production data. The system may determine which regulation to apply by using a data structure such as a look up table or database to find which frequency duration and data type regulations if any correspond to the determined geographic entity. The system may then begin creating secondary copies of production data and otherwise set variables of an information management policy for the computing device based on the regulations found.

Many information management policies have been disclosed above e.g. in connection with . Based on the regulations of geographic entity the system may vary aspects of the information management policy such as those shown below in Table 1.

Each aspect of the information management policy may depend on one or more other variables thus determining one aspect of the information management policy may include determining other characteristics of the information management system. Referring to Table 1 the frequency with which a production or non production copy of a data object or metadata is created may depend upon how long each copy takes to create the number of clients to be backed up and the storage capacity of the system. Whether the system should dedicate the resources to deduplicating production data prior to creating secondary copies may depend upon the non production storage media capacity and the size of the production data. If the production data is relatively small in size then it may not be as beneficial to dedicate the time or resource to deduplicate the data prior to creating secondary copies. When to schedule information management operations so as not to disrupt business operations may depend on the bandwidth of the network and the duration of each backup.

Determining the type of storage media to transfer secondary copies to may depend upon the speed of the non production storage media and the size of the production data to be copied. Encryption and compression preference may depend on the size of the production data to be copied the sensitivity of the data and the storage capacity of the non production storage media. Whether the data objects are distributed across multiple storage devices or concentrated into a few may depend on the reliability of the non production storage media. Retention policies may depend on the class of data e.g. financial medical etc. the reliability of the clients and the cost of the storage media e.g. hard disk tapes etc. Other aspects of the information management policies may also be varied. While the information management policy criterion and examples of variables are illustrated in a table any data structure can be used to organize or manage the criterion and variables used in defining and adjusting an information management policy.

An IT administrator or other person may populate and maintain the data structure that includes the regulations. The data structure may be sortable by geographic entity e.g. by a geographic entity field in the data structure so that when regulations for as an example Italy change a person may easily update various aspects of the information management policy for Italy. In some implementations the system may be connected to computing systems of regulatory bodies of geographic entities e.g. countries throughout the world and may be configured to parse regulatory information and automatically populate and or update the data structure.

At block the system acquires or determines a location of the computing device. Any one or more of the methods described above for determining the location of a computing device may be used.

At block the system determines the location of the default one of the number of information management hosts configured to provide information management services to the computing device. The default information management host may be the host e.g. storage manager or media agent to which the computing device was initially assigned. Thus the default host may be determined by querying storage manager databases for the information management system identifier associated with the computing device.

At block the system determines the distance s between the computing device and the default one of the number of hosts configured to provide information management services. In one aspect the system determines the distance s between the computing device and the default one of the number of hosts by determining a minimum geographical distance. In one implementation the minimum distance is determined by first determining the IP addresses of each device using an IP address lookup tool discussed above to find the city state of the location of each device and inserting the location information for each device into a mapping application such as Google Maps Yahoo Maps or another available mapping tool. In another aspect the system determines the distance s between the computing device and the default one of the number of hosts by determining the distance of the minimum signal path i.e. inclusive of network switches and transmission media.

The network distance between the computing device and the host may be measured by tracing the network path of a packet sent from the computing device to the host. The network path and the time it takes for the packet to travel the network path can be determined by for example the tracert or traceroute commands in Windows and Linux operating systems respectively. Other programs code or commands can be used but the trace route command returns the IP addresses of each of the series of IP routers that are used in delivering packets from the computing device to the host and the command returns information indicating the duration of each router to router hop. Using the same IP lookup techniques discussed above each router location can be determined and the overall network distance can be summed by entering the locations of the routers into a mapping application. Alternatively the distance can be estimated based on the duration e.g. sum of all of the hops for which the test packet travels from the computing device to the host.

At block the system compares the minimum determined distance between the computing device and a default host to a threshold e.g. 100 miles. If the determined distance does not exceed the threshold the method proceeds to block . If the determined distance exceeds the threshold the method proceeds to block .

At block the system performs a first information management operation with the default host. An example of the default information management host may include the storage manager and the media agent located at the headquarter facilities of a company or organization. An example of a first information management operation may include creating non production copies of data using a resource intensive type of secondary copy such as periodically creating full backup copies. Other options may include performing additional processing such as deduplication content indexing encryption and or compress.

At block the system may switch from the default host to another one of the number of hosts that is located closer to the computing device to provide information management services to the computing device. In other words the system may switch from providing information management services to the computing device by a host located away from the computing device by a distance that is greater than the threshold to providing information management services to the computing device by a host located away from the computing device by a distance that is less than or equal to the threshold.

Alternatively or additionally at block the system may perform a second information management policy. An example of a second information management policy may include creating non production copies of data using a less resource intensive type of secondary copy such as creating a single full backup copy and subsequently creating periodic or intermittent incremental backup copies of data. Another example of a less intensive secondary copy may include creating snapshot copies of data. Alternatively or additionally the second information management policy may include longer time periods between the creation of secondary copies as compared to the time periods between the creation of secondary copies under the first information management policy.

At block a system acquires or determines a network connection speed between a default information management host and the computing device. For example the system may measure the time it takes to transmit a file from the default host to the computing device and measure the time it takes the default host to receive a file from the computing device. The transmit times may be measured using utility commands or programs such as tracert as described above. In some implementations the default host sends a message response once the complete file has been received. The transmit time is subtracted from the received time to determine the transmit receive duration and the size of the packet is divided by the transmit receive duration to determine the connection speed in bits per second.

At block the system compares the determined network connection speed to a threshold e.g. 10 Mbps megabits per second . If the determined network speed exceeds the threshold the method proceeds to block . If the determined network speed does not exceed the threshold the method proceeds to block .

At block the system performs a first information management operation with the default host. An example of a first information management operation may include creating a non production copy of data using a resource intensive type of secondary copy which can be accommodated by the determined network speeds within a reasonable time frame e.g. before the next backup operation is scheduled to occur.

At block the system may switch from the default host to another one of the number of hosts that shares a faster network connection with the computing device. The system may determine which of the other ones of the number of hosts shares a faster network connection with the computing device by performing the example network test of block .

Alternatively or additionally at block the system may perform a second information management operation instead of the first information management operation. An example of a second information management operation may include creating a non production copy of data using a less resource intensive type of secondary copy such as creating a full backup copy combined with subsequent periodic or intermittent incremental backup copies of production data. Another example of a less intensive backup operation may include creating snapshot copies of data. Alternatively or additionally the second information management operation may include longer time periods between backup operations as compared to the time periods of backup operations for the first data retention policy.

To implement the methods and or the system may use a data structure such as Table 2 shown below. Table 2 includes a speed distance column and

The techniques disclosed in methods and offer many advantages to IT groups tasked with supporting employees that use mobile or portable computing devices for and during business travels. For example by implementing the disclosed methods IT groups may be able to more confidently report that non production copies of data are being created with higher efficiency and speed than may be provided by assigning personnel resources to track the locations of computing device use. Moreover the disclosed methods enable IT personnel to maintain a day time work schedule by automating the adjustment of data retention policies. That is if an organizations IT services are centralized somewhere in the United States the IT services have to staff technicians around the clock in order to provide service to members employees of the organization that are traveling in Asia or Europe where the time zone differences can be 8 16 hours different. Without an automated switching of backup servers IT personnel may need to be awake while employees travel so that the IT staff can reassign the computing device to nearest or fastest information management hosts. However because the disclosed methods make such adjustments automatically IT staff may maintain a day time work schedule wherever they are located and independent of where the organizations members employees travel.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes systems and methods for providing security features to a computing device based on the location or geographic entity in which the computing device operates. These security features may enable a user of a computing device an IT administrator in charge of the computing device or the information management system communicatively coupled to the computing device to remotely erase or wipe production copies of data from the computing device. These security features enable organizations and governments to protect sensitive or valuable information and will be discussed in terms of the following methods tables and interfaces.

As disclosed above servers may include one or more components of information management cell and may be configured to log track and or otherwise record the location of one or more computing devices . Servers may save the location data of the computing device in a data structure such as a Table 3 illustrated below and may perform operations related to remote security based on the information in Table 3.

At block in this example an information management server enters a location of a computing device into a table. The information management server may receive the location of the computing device from the computing device or may determine the location of the computing device using techniques such as an IP address lookup or a GPS coordinate lookup. The information management server may then create or update a table database or other data structure such as Table 3 to include the location and or other information that identifies the computing device.

At block the information management server compares the location of the computing device in the table to a set of rules such as the access control list of Table 4. The set of rules may include a list of geographic entities e.g. countries and a corresponding list of prohibited types or classifications of information for the geographic entities. As shown in Table 4 a computing device having only general business information or general business information and confidential information being operated in a geographic entity such as Libya is not prohibited so the information management server takes no further action. However the same computing device having general business information and confidential information would be prohibited in a geographic entity such as North Korea according to the access list of Table 4. If the information management server to determines that the computing device is in a geographic entity where information is prohibited the process proceeds to block to perform security operations on the computing device.

At block the information management server begins performing or initiates security operations such as encrypting information on the computing device. In some implementations the information management server instructs the computing device to encrypt those portions of the information on the computing device that are prohibited in the specific geographic entity. In other implementations the information management takes a less secure approach and just password protects information on the computing device so that it is accessible to the user or others only after entering the password. Such an approach may be acceptable for less sensitive information or when the computing device is in less restricted geographic regions.

To encrypt or password protect some or all information on the computing device the information management server may communicate with one or more agents or clients that are already installed on the computing system. In some implementations the information management server transmits an encryption key such as a public key to the agent on the computing device along with instruction for the computing device to begin encryption. The information management system may retain a decryption key such as a private key and only distribute the decryption key once the information management server has determined that the computing device is no longer in the prohibited geographic entity. Other encryption methods may be used using techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Since encryption can be time consuming the computing device may begin by encrypting information with a secret designation followed by confidential information.

At block the information management server creates secondary copies of some or all information on the computing device. The information management server may use one of a number of lightweight backup techniques to create a secondary copy of just the portions of the information on the computing device that are prohibited for the geographic entity. For example the information management server may create a differential secondary copy that merely saves the differences between the previous non production data and the present state of the information on the computing device. Furthermore the information management server may create a secondary copy just of specific file types folders or information associated with one or more particular applications for example all files associated with a computer aided design application e.g. Microsoft Visio.

The information management server stores the secondary copies on servers that are not located in the prohibited geographic entity. Preferably the information management system may store the secondary copies on servers that are located near the last permitted geographic entity where the computing device was operated. In other implementations the information management server may store the secondary copies on servers that are located near but not within the prohibited geographic entity so that the data may be quickly restored to the computing device if the computing device is moved out of the prohibited geographic entity.

At block the information management server may block the user from operating the computing device to prevent the user from transferring information from the computing device. Before after or while the information management server creates secondary copies of portions or all of the information on the computing device the information management server may prevent the user from transferring information from the computing device or even shutting down the computing device.

At block the information management server may delete some or all of the information on the computing device i.e. the local copies if necessitated by the regulations the above noted table or other rules. After creating a secondary copy of the information the surest prophylactic measure to ensure that the prohibited information is not transferred may be to completely remove the information from the computing device and perform multiple overwrites of data to ensure no recovery of the previously existing data may be performed.

At block the information management server may notify the user of the deletion by simply providing a dialog box on the screen of the computing device to indicate that information has been deleted and that the information will not be restored until the information management server has confirmed that the computing device is no longer within the prohibited geographic entity. Alternatively or additionally the information management server may send a message to the computing device such as to an email address. Alternatively or additionally the system may use telecommunication systems such as short message service SMS or multimedia messaging service MMS to a mobile device registered with the user 

At block the information management server monitors the location of the computing device. Although selected portions of the information of the computing device may have been deleted from the computing device other agents or clients installed on the computing device report network information or location information for the computing device continue to operate. In response to the information management server determining that the location of the computing device is no longer in a prohibited geographic entity the information management server may provide notification to user of steps to follow to restore the deleted information. In some implementations the restoration process uses one or more of the techniques for data restoration that were discussed above. Alternatively the server may automatically rewrite deleted data to the computing device once it is back in an acceptable geographic region.

The servers may use the information of Table 3 or other saved formats of location data for computing device to provide other security services as well. For example servers may make security services related to computing device available via a webpage mobile device application or other remotely accessible software based on the information of Table 3 as shown in .

The remote erase button may enable a user to delete all production data from the computing device . In response to a user selecting the remote erase button servers may install or launch an auto executing program or function on computing device that reformats or otherwise deletes the contents of one or more non volatile storage devices of computing device i.e. production storage media . Servers may use other techniques to remotely remove production copies data from computing device . For example servers may communicate with a basic input output system BIOS or other remote management software firmware on the computing device that may be configured to provide remote memory management services for computing device .

In response to a user selecting the remote restore button severs may transfer a most recent secondary copy of information that was erased from the computing device from non production storage media to the computing device . The webpage may include a dialog box that enables a user to select a secondary copy from a number of secondary copies to restore to the computing device according to the teachings of any one or more of .

Webpage may display Table 3 to enable a user to review the locations at which computing device has been or is being operated. For example if a user has misplaced computing device during his or her business travels e.g. to Seoul the user may use webpage to determine the last location at which computing device was operated. If the user determines that computing device is currently being operated or has recently been operated in a location that the user has not been to e.g. North Korea the user may decide to either change the password of the computing device or use the remote erase button to delete the production copies of data stored on computing device . Advantageously because the webpage logs the locations where the computing device has been operated webpage enables a user to retrace his or her steps to try to find the lost or misplaced computing device before making the decision to remotely wipe the production data stored on computing device .

In some implementations it may be advantageous for an IT administrator to use webpage to review the locations at which the computing device has been or is being operated. Webpage enables IT administrators to for example change the password on the remote computing device to block out the user and enables the IT administrators to remotely the erase the production copies of data stored on computing device . For example if an IT administrator determines that a user is operating the computing device in a geographic entity or region where the computing device is not supposed to be operated e.g. outside of the United States or in North Korea the IT administrator may use the remote erase button and remove all production copies of data from the computing device .

In some implementations the remote erase button does not erase all data on computing device but instead allows erasures of selected portions of production data on the computing device e.g. specific files folders . The webpage may display a dialog box that enables the user to select classes of data particular files or folders of data data associated with a particular application data that includes a particular alpha numeric identifier and or data having a particular level of sensitivity e.g. secret. Further details on data classification are described above.

In other implementations the webpage enables a user to search through secondary copies of information that were copied from the computing device to allow the user to review and identify particular files or data objects that should be remotely erased from the computing device . The webpage may also provide the option to encrypt or password protect selected information via the remote erase button rather than just erasing all or part of the information on the computing device . Thus the remote erase or wipe function may allow the computing device to continue operating while a thief is tracked down without exposing an organization s valued information to risk of theft because the valued information is selectively removed from the computing device .

At block a server monitors updates received from a remote computing device. The server may be one of a number of devices within an information management cell. In some implementations the server is a storage manager and other implementations the server is implemented as a media agent. The server may receive location information network information and security based notifications. The remote computing device may generate location information and network information by using the methods or techniques that have been described above. The remote computing device may generate security based notifications in response to a number of failed attempts e.g. 3 attempts at logging into the computing device by a user.

At block the server compares the location information received from the computing device to one or more data structures stored by the server. The data structures may include rules and may specify geographic entities or locations in which use of the computing device is prohibited. If the server receives security based notifications from the computing device or if the server determines that the computing device is operating in a prohibited geographic entity based on the comparison the process proceeds to block .

At block the server transmits a security alert or notification to a mobile device of a user regarding the computing device. The server may transmit the security alert to a mobile device of the user. The server may transmit the security alert via email or by using one or more telecommunications protocols. For example the server may transmit the security alert via SMS or MMS using for example one or more of various wireless carrier API e.g. sendSms getSmsDeliveryStatus sendMessage and getMessageDeliveryStatus functions provided by Verizon.

In the security alert the server may include the reason for the security alert along with a link to a remote security webpage such as webpage . Referring briefly to Table 3 in the security alert the server may notify the user that the reason for the notification is that the computing device has been identified as being operated in an area that is prohibited by an access control list such as the one found in Table 4. The link to the remote security webpage may be an HTML link or may alternatively be a link to a remote security application located on the user s mobile device.

At block the server receives instructions from the user regarding which security operation to perform on the computing device. The server may receive instructions from the user via one or more user interface objects displayed by a remote security webpage such as webpage . Through the remote security webpage the user IT administrator or other person selects from one or more of a number of security options or instructions for the server to execute. For example using the remote security webpage the user may select to encrypt or password protect certain files folders files having a particular file extension classes of information e.g. financial information or information having a particular sensitivity classification e.g. secret .

As described above server may enable the user to browse through the information stored on the computing device by allowing the user to browse through a reconstructed version of the file system of the computing device. The system may allow browsing via prior data classification to thereby automatically identify certain classes of data. The server may then restore the most recent version of the backup information onto a virtual computing device hosted by the server. Through the virtual computing device the user browses and identifies portions of information located on the computing device for encryption protection or deletion from the computing device.

At block the server executes the instructions received and the process ends. An advantage of enabling the user to remotely and selectively encrypt protect or erase information on a computing device is that the information can be more easily recovered in the event that the user later recovers the computing device.

In some implementations of the information management system servers are configured to use features included in webpage to automatically erase the production copies of data from the computing device based on the geographic entity or region in which the computing device is operated. For example if computing device contains sensitive confidential and or secret corporate or government information the servers may be configured to remotely erase production copies of data e.g. on primary storage medium if the computing device is operated within a particular geographic region such as state B or if the computing device is operated outside of a particular geographic region such as the second country . According to some implementations the servers may first provide a notification or warning to the user prior to locking the user out or remotely erasing all production copies of data. In other implementations the servers may be configured to notify a user of the erasure of production copies of data from computing device after the production data has been erased to prevent the user from removing a power source from the computing device in attempt to interfere with the remote erase operation. Thus servers may automatically provide security services based on the geographic entity or region in which computing device is operated. That is the servers may enable one or more users to monitor and maintain security of production data stored on the computing device e.g. via webpage .

At block the server determines the geographic location of the computing device and determines which geographic entity the computing device is operating within. The server may simply receive the geographic location from the computing device or the server may determine the geographic location using GPS coordinates or network information received from the computing device.

At block the server implements or adjusts an information management policy in response to the operating environment or in response to changes in the operating environment of the computing device. The server may adjust the type of secondary copies created the frequency of creating secondary copies and the location where the secondary copies are stored among other things. The server may also create an unscheduled secondary copy of production data in response to a security threat before deleting all or part of production data stored on the computing device. The server may transfer management responsibility for the computing device to another server that may be closer to the computing device or that may share a faster connection speed with the computing device. Other aspects may also be varied.

While the above description has been directed towards applications associated with computing devices that are mobile any one or more of the disclosed methods systems or techniques may be applied to static devices such as fixed servers as well which may be movable. Thus any one or more of methods and may be used to adjust the information management policy applied to a static computing device. For example a storage manager having responsibility for an information cell that includes static computing devices located in for example Denmark and Italy may adjust the storage or retention policies in response to updates to Danish or Italian data regulations. As another example a storage manager media agent or other information management device may be configured to automatically apply a geographic entity based information storage policy to new static computing devices as the new static computing devices are added to the network of an organization. Some organizations such as Starbucks Corporation are growing fast and open new retail outlets daily if not more frequently. Implementing the described systems and methods to manage quickly growing organizations would enable the organization to automatically apply the correct information management policy to newly installed devices by looking up the IP address of the new device to determine its location and by applying the location based or geographic entity based policy to the new static device.

Various techniques have been disclosed herein to provide geographic entity or region based information management services. The geographic entity or region based techniques may also be used to perform convenience related services. For example the geographic entity or region based techniques disclosed herein may be used to automatically change the default printer for the computing device or may be used to update a user s calendar with the time zone that the user is working from.

Each of the various services described herein may include settings menus that enable IT administrators to opt in or opt out of one or more of the location based services. Additionally each of the various services described herein may be packaged to provide limited feature sets to customers only interested in paying for the limited feature set or a full feature set for customers who pay for all of the software features.

Systems and modules described herein may comprise software firmware hardware or any combination s of software firmware or hardware suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may reside on servers workstations personal computers computerized tablets PDAs smart phones and other devices suitable for the purposes described herein. Modules described herein may be executed by a general purpose computer e.g. a server computer wireless device or personal computer. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the invention can be practiced with other communications data processing or computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices including personal digital assistants PDAs wearable computers all manner of cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like. Indeed the terms computer server host host system and the like are generally used interchangeably herein and refer to any of the above devices and systems as well as any data processor. Furthermore aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein.

Software and other modules may be accessible via local memory a network a browser or other application in an ASP context or via another means suitable for the purposes described herein. Examples of the technology can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Data structures described herein may comprise computer files variables programming arrays programming structures or any electronic information storage schemes or methods or any combinations thereof suitable for the purposes described herein. User interface elements described herein may comprise elements from graphical user interfaces command line interfaces and other interfaces suitable for the purposes described herein.

Examples of the technology may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer disks hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme .

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative implementations may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the systems described herein. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the invention.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

While certain examples are presented below in certain forms the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the invention.

