---

title: Cloud service to manage robotic devices
abstract: Methods and systems enabling a cloud service to manage robotic devices are provided. An example method includes receiving a task order including information that identifies configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task, program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task, and payment information for the task. The method may also include selecting one or more robotic devices to perform the task from among a pool of robotic devices. For instance, the selected one or more robotic devices may be leased for a period of time to perform the task. The method may further include providing the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected one or more robotic devices, and receiving confirmation that the task has been performed. According to the method, payment may be provided to one or more accounts registered with the selected one or more robotic devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08532820&OS=08532820&RS=08532820
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08532820
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120919
---
This disclosure relates to cloud computing and in examples to a cloud computing service for managing and or controlling robotic devices.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud .

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives etc. . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

In some examples a robotic device may communicate with a server in a cloud to perform a variety of tasks. For instance a robotic device may include sensors such as a gyroscope optical sensor biosensor etc. as well as actuators such as motors wheels and moveable arms. The robotic device may receive instructions from the cloud for operating the sensors and or actuators in order to recognize and grip an object navigate through an environment or perform other types of tasks.

In one example aspect a method is provided that includes receiving a task order including information that identifies configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task and payment information for the task. The method may also include a computing device having a processor and a memory selecting one or more robotic devices to perform the task from among a pool of robotic devices. Given robotic devices of the pool may be configured to operate at given remote locations. Additionally the selected one or more robotic devices may be leased for a period of time to perform the task. The method may further include providing the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected one or more robotic devices and receiving confirmation that the task has been performed. According to the method payment may be provided to one or more accounts registered with the selected one or more robotic devices.

In another example aspect a computer readable medium is provided having stored therein instructions that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a task order including information that identifies configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task and payment information for the task. The functions may also include selecting one or more robotic devices to perform the task from among a pool of robotic devices. Given robotic devices of the pool may be configured to operate at given remote locations. Additionally the selected one or more robotic devices may be leased for a period of time to perform the task. The functions may further include providing the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected one or more robotic devices and receiving confirmation that the task has been performed. According to the functions payment may be provided to one or more accounts registered with the selected one or more robotic devices.

In still another example aspect a system is provided that includes at least one processor and a memory. The memory may include stored instructions that are executable by the at least one processor to cause the processor to perform functions. The functions may include receiving a task order including information that identifies configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task and payment information for the task. The functions may also include selecting one or more robotic devices to perform the task from among a pool of robotic devices. Given robotic devices of the pool may be configured to operate at given remote locations. Additionally the selected one or more robotic devices may be leased for a period of time to perform the task. The functions may further include providing the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected one or more robotic devices and receiving confirmation that the task has been performed. According to the functions payment may be provided to one or more accounts registered with the selected one or more robotic devices.

In yet another example aspect a method is provided that includes receiving a request to register an account for a robotic device with a cloud service. The cloud service may be configured to receive a task to be performed by robotic devices that are selected from among a pool of robotic devices and leased for a period of time to perform the task. Also the robotic device may be among the pool of robotic devices. The method may also include receiving configuration requirements for the robotic device to perform the task and program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task. Additionally the method may further include providing the program instructions to the robotic device for execution by the robotic device to perform the task based on the configuration requirements and receiving a result of performance of the task at the cloud service. According to the method payment for the task may be provided via the account.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia methods and systems enabling a cloud service to manage control robotic devices. The methods and systems described herein may allow a user for example a small business owner to rent one or more robotic devices from a pool of robotic devices to perform a task. In one case the user may provide program instructions that are executable by the one or more robotic devices to perform the task. For instance the program instructions may be provided to a cloud service which selects robotic devices and provide the program instructions to the robotic devices. In some instances the user may also provide information associated with input materials required for performing the task and the cloud service may arrange for the input materials to be provided to the robotic devices.

The tasks performed by the robotic devices may include manual and or skilled labor tasks such as assembling toys or electronics from component parts sorting clothing or other types of products detecting defects for quality assurance or other purposes polishing painting objects or performing experiments. Other examples of tasks are also possible. The pool of robotic devices may include one or any combination of general purpose robotic devices and specialized robotic devices that may be leased for a period of time to perform a task. For instance the general purpose robotic devices may be configurable to perform a wide variety of tasks. Optionally based on the configuration requirements for a given task the general purpose robotic devices may employ the use of add ons such as attachable lasers fingers with different tips for varying grips or other types of add ons.

In some examples users may purchase one or more robotic devices that are maintained by the user and connect the robotic devices to the cloud service. If the robotic devices are selected by the cloud service to perform a task the user may be compensated for the task by another user that requested the task to be performed. Thus the user may receive a revenue stream as their robotic devices periodically perform various tasks. Alternative and additional examples and embodiments of the methods and systems are further described below.

Referring now to the figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or a group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing client devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the client devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific client devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more client devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a PC user or robot client device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the cloud infrastructure .

The system includes a number of client devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer client devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of client devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the client devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer etc. and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone tablet computer etc. .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone etc. that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the client devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms. For example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the client devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured to use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

An example illustration of a robotic device is shown in . In one example the robotic device is configured as a robot. In some examples a robot may contain computer hardware such as a processor memory or data storage and one or more sensors . For example a robot controller e.g. processor computing system and sensors may all be custom designed for a specific robot. The robot may have a link to access cloud servers as shown in . A wired link may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless link may include for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 Cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robotic device and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robotic device based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include cameras smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscopes accelerometers distance sensors radars capacitive sensors and touch sensors etc. Example distance sensors include infrared ranging sensors photoelectric distance sensors proximity sensors ultrasonic sensors radars or other types of sensors that may provide outputs used to determine a distance of the robotic device to an object.

The robotic device may also have components or devices that allow the robotic device to interact with an environment of the robotic device . For example the robotic device may have a camera to provide images of a field of view of the environment as well as mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms etc. that enable the robotic device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the robotic device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from the robotic device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the robotic device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the robotic device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the robotic device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen etc. that are included within the device .

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software such as the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics and MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio and other examples also include ROSJAVA. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the internet. Although presents an example of a conceptual robot cloud interaction other robotic devices may perform planning and or processing locally.

In one example a cloud service may select one or more of robots and to perform a task. For example the cloud service may include a processor and a memory and may be configured to receive a task order from one of computing devices and . The task order may include information that identifies configuration requirements for a robot to perform a task as well as program instructions for the robot to perform the task. Additionally the task order may include payment information associated with the task.

As shown in one or more of robots and may be configured to communicate with computing devices and directly or through the cloud . For instance robot may be selected by the cloud service to perform a task requested by computing device . Subsequently robot may provide feedback to computing device about the task. In one example the feedback may include a real time camera feed as the robot performs the task. In other examples the feedback may include data determined by one or more sensors of the robot during or after performing a task.

Further example interaction between the robots and the cloud service and the computing devices and of system is described below. For example the cloud service may be configured to perform the method described with respect to .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the block diagram shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor or computing device for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method the method includes receiving a task order. The task order may include information that identifies configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task and payment information for the task.

In one example the task order may be received via a web service that is hosted as part of a cloud service. For example the web service may be similar to the cloud platform of and may be accessible by developers task requestors who can book one or more robots for a specified period of time. In some cases the web service may list robotic devices of a pool of robotic devices that are available to perform a task. The robotic devices may be categorized by configuration or functionality. For instance the web service may describe general purpose robotic devices that can be configured to include lasers or cameras or specialized robotic devices that are configured to perform a specific task or type of task. A developer may indicate within the task order configuration requirements such as required add ons or functionalities necessary to perform a task. The developer may also upload a program for a robotic device to follow to perform a task. In one example the program may include program instructions such as instructions that are compatible with a robot operation system that are executable by the robotic device to perform the task. In other examples the program may be interpreted by an owner of the robotic device who may program the robotic device to perform the task based on the program. Additionally the task order may indicate an amount of money that the developer expects to pay for the task to be performed.

At block the method includes selecting or determining one or more robotic devices to perform the task from among a pool of robotic devices. For instance a computing device connected to the web service in a cloud may assign the task to one or more robotic devices. In some instances owners of the robotic devices may submit bids or quotes offering to perform the task by the robotic devices for an amount of money. The computing device may select robotic devices based on the quotes selecting a cheapest quote for example. In other examples the computing device may select the robotic devices based on those robotic devices of the pool which are configurable to meet the configurations requirements of the task order. In still other examples the computing device may select the robotic device based on proximity of the robotic device to a location of the task requestor. Additionally the computing device may select the one or more robotic devices based on user rating. For instance task requestors may rate robotic devices based on past performance.

At block the method includes providing the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected robotic devices. In one example a cloud service may provide the configuration requirements and the program instructions to the selected robotic devices. In another example the cloud service may provide a network address or other contact information to the developer or task requestor that provided the task order and the developer or task requestor may send the configuration requirements and program instructions to the selected robotic devices. It is contemplated that the selected robotic devices may be in same or different locations.

In some instances the task order may also include information that identifies input materials for performing the task and the information about the input materials may be provided to the selected robotic devices such that the selected robotic devices can perform the task. For instance the input materials may be actuators or sensors utilized by the selected robotic devices to perform the task. In another case the input materials may be supply parts or other forms of input required to perform the task. As an example the task may involve performing an experiment under varying circumstances. For instance thousands of combinations of ingredient percentage type time of mixing temperature etc. may be tested by the selected robotic devices. The ingredients and any supplies for performing the experiment may be provided to the selected robotic devices. For example the cloud service may order the ingredients and supply parts for delivery at the location s of the robotic devices or the task requestor may send the ingredients and supply parts to the location s of the robotic devices.

At block the method includes receiving confirmation that the task has been performed. In one example the confirmation may be provided by the task requestor to the cloud service. For example the task requestor may receive results or an output of the task and indicate to the cloud service that the task has been performed. In one case the task order may include a delivery address for an output of the task. The robotic device or an owner of the robotic device may provide the output of the task to the delivery address and the task requestor may notify the cloud service that the task has been performed upon receipt of the output of the task at the delivery address. In an example in which the task includes assembling parts of a product the assembled product may be provided to the delivery address. In an example in which the task includes inspecting a product the delivery address may be an email or web address and the inspection data as determined by performing the task may be uploaded or sent to the delivery address.

In some instances the method may also provide for feedback being provided to the task order while or after a task is performed. For instance a real time camera feed or other form of output from the robotic device may be provided to the task requestor either directly or via the cloud service for example while the task is being performed. Thus the task requestor may track the task as it is being performed.

At block the method includes providing payment to one or more accounts registered with the selected robotic devices. In some instances the payment may be sent to an account s registered with the selected robotic devices in response to receiving the confirmation that the task has been performed. In other examples payment may be sent or received prior to completion of the task performed or with or in response to receipt of the task order at block .

Multiple payment and business models are contemplated for the described methods and systems. For instance a company that hosts the cloud service may receive a portion of the payment provided to the account s e.g. a flat fee per task order or a percentage of the payment . In another example the company may charge a fee for allowing task requestors or developers to access the cloud service. In other instances the company may charge a fee for owners of robotic devices registering their robotic devices with the cloud service. Still other examples are also possible.

Initially as shown in at step the requestor provides a task order to the cloud service . The task order may include one or more of configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task program instructions that are executable by a robotic device to perform the task and payment information for the task. In response to receiving the task order the cloud service may provide the requestor with a task order ID that identifies the task order. The task order ID may be provided within subsequent communications between the cloud service requestor robotic device and supplier .

After the cloud service selects a robotic device to perform the task the cloud service may send configuration requirements and program instructions to the robotic device at step . Additionally at step the cloud service may send a request to a supplier for input materials to perform the task. In response to receiving the input materials request the supplier may deliver the input materials to the robotic device at step . As described previously the input materials may include actuators or sensors for performing the task and or supply parts for performing the task.

At step the robotic device may configure itself to perform the task based on the configuration requirements and execute the program instructions to perform the task using the input materials. At step the robotic device may provide feedback to the cloud service about the task. Although step is shown as occurring after step step may be performed while the robotic device is performing the task. Additionally the cloud service may relay the feedback to the requestor at block .

After performing the task at step the robotic device may provide the results of the task to the cloud service . Again the cloud service may relay the results to the requestor at step . After sending the results to the requestor the cloud service may send payment to the robotic device at step . For instance payment that was received as part of the task order provided by the requestor at step may be provided to an account registered with the robotic device .

The flow diagram shown in provides another example for a cloud service managing a task to be performed by a robotic device. Initially similar to a task order request may be provided to the cloud service at step and the cloud service may provide a task order ID to the requestor at step . The cloud service may select a robotic device to perform the task and configuration requirements as well as program instructions may be provided to the robotic device at step . Additionally the cloud service may provide a robotic device ID to the requestor at step . The robotic device ID may include information for communicating with the robotic device such as an IP address or other form of contact information as well as location information such as an average of the robotic device .

At step the requestor may provide input materials to the robotic device . As an example the requestor may ship one or more materials or add ons to the robotic device . At block the robotic device may perform the task based on the configuration requirements and program instructions and using the input materials. Additionally at step the robotic device may provide feedback to the requestor . At step the robotic device may also send results of performing the task such as data or a tangible product to the requestor .

In one example in response to receiving the results of performing the task the requestor may at step provide confirmation to the cloud service that the task has been performed. In response to receiving the confirmation at step the cloud service may provide payment to an account registered with the robotic device .

In some examples the cloud service may enable a task requestor to crowdsource a task that does not require all of the robotic devices that perform the task to be co located. In lieu of the task requestor buying and maintain a pool of robotic devices the task requestor may lease one or more robotic devices of a pool of robotic devices for a period of time. The robotic devices of the pool may be supplied by individuals or businesses and managed by the cloud service. In response to being selected to perform a task robotic devices which may be thought of as a crowd in the well known crowdsourcing distributed problem solving and production model perform the task and submit results. below provides an example of the role of a robotic device in the crowdsourcing model.

At block the method includes registering an account for a robotic device with a cloud service. For example an owner of a robotic device or multiple robotic devices may register the robotic devices with a web service that is connected to the cloud service. In one case the owner may indicate the configuration abilities and functionalities of the robotic device. The cloud service may be configured to receive a task to be performed by one or more robotic devices that are selected from among a pool of robotic devices. A selected robotic device may be leased for a period of time to perform the task.

At block the method includes receiving configuration requirements for a robotic device to perform a task and program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task. In one example the configuration requirements may be required add ons or functionalities necessary to perform a task. The program instructions may include a program for the robotic device to follow to perform the task. In one example the program may include program instructions such as instructions that are compatible with a robot operation system that are executable by the robotic device to perform the task. In other examples the program may be interpreted by an owner of the robotic device who may program the robotic device to perform the task based on the program. In some examples the robotic device may receive information about the task and access a server to receive the program instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the task.

At block the method includes the robotic device executing the program instructions to perform the task based on the configuration requirements. As an example the robotic device may configure itself to perform the task based on the configuration requirements. For instance the robotic device may be a general purpose robotic device that is capable of attaching any add ons necessary to perform the task. In some instances the robotic device may also receive information about input materials for performing the task and the robotic device may utilize the input materials when executing the program instructions. For example supply parts may be shipped to the robotic device and the robotic device may identify and assemble the supply parts as part of the execution of the program instructions.

At block the method includes providing results of performing the task to the cloud service. In one example the program instructions may include an address for uploading results of performing the task and the robotic device may send the results of the task to the address. For instance the address may be an address of a database associated with the cloud service. In another example a delivery address that is a location associated with a requestor of the task may be sent to the robotic device and the robotic device or an owner of the robotic device may send an output of the task e.g. an assembled product or data gathered by performing the task to the delivery address.

At block the method includes receiving payment for the task via the account. For example the cloud service may provide payment to the account registered with the robotic device. Thus in some instances owners of robotic devices may be motivated to contribute to crowdsourced tasks by the potential for financial gain.

In one example the method may enable anyone in the world to purchase one or more robotic devices and operate a small business. For instance an owner may purchase multiple robotic devices to be operated at an owner s facility and lease them to the cloud service. After registering the robotic devices with the cloud service the cloud service may provide information associated with tasks to be performed by the robotic devices at the facility. For example the cloud service may provide supply parts or attachments necessary for the robotic device to perform the task as well as instructions for performing the task. After completing the task the robotic devices or an owner of the robotic devices may provide the results to the cloud service or a requestor of the task. Examples of tasks that may be performed at the owner s facility include gene sequencing medical image processing or text recognition from scanned documents among many other possibilities.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

