---

title: Global positioning system (GPS) and doppler augmentation (GDAUG) and space location inertial navigation geopositioning system (SPACELINGS)
abstract: A global positioning system (GPS) and Doppler augmentation (GDAUG) end receiver (GDER) can include a GDAUG module. The GDAUG module can generate a GDER position using a time of flight (TOF) of a transponded GPS signal and a Doppler shift in a GDAUG satellite (GSAT) signal. The transponded GPS signal sent from a GSAT to the GDER can include a frequency shifted copy of a GPS signal from a GPS satellite to the GSAT. The GSAT signal can include a signal generated by the GSAT to the GDER.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09019155&OS=09019155&RS=09019155
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 09019155
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Satellite navigation systems such as a global positioning system GPS enable a receiver to determine a location from ranging signals received from a plurality of satellites. The GPS can include three major segments a space segment SS a control segment CS and a user segment US . The United States Air Force develops maintains and operates the space and control segments. GPS satellites broadcast signals from space and each GPS receiver uses these signals to calculate a three dimensional location latitude longitude and altitude of the GPS receiver and a current time at each GPS satellite. The space segment can include 24 to 32 satellites in a medium Earth orbit MEO . The control segment can include a master control station an alternate master control station and a host of dedicated and shared ground antennas and monitor stations. The user segment can include military civil commercial and scientific users.

The ranging signals can be broadcasted on frequencies such as the L signal 1.57542 gigahertz GHz and or L signal 1.2276 GHz . Position can be determined from matching codes in the transmitted signal and the receiver to determine the difference in time between transmission and reception. A code division multiple access CDMA code is transmitted by the GPS satellites to the receiver and correlated with replica codes to determine ranges to different satellites which can be used to determine the position of a GPS receiver on or near the Earth. Generally a GPS receiver receives signals from multiple GPS satellites e.g. four to find its position.

In some exemplary embodiments a global positioning system GPS and Doppler augmentation GDAUG end receiver GDER can be provided which can comprise a GDAUG module wherein the GDAUG module can generate a GDER position using a time of flight TOF the difference in time between transmission and reception of a transponded GPS signal and a Doppler shift in a GDAUG satellite GSAT signal and wherein the transponded GPS signal sent from a GSAT to the GDER can comprise a frequency shifted copy of a GPS signal from a GPS satellite to the GSAT and the GSAT signal can comprise a signal generated by the GSAT to the GDER.

The GDAUG module can further comprise a Doppler shift module that measures a Doppler shift in the GSAT signal a GSAT ephemeris estimator that can determine a GSAT position by measuring a trend in a plurality of GSAT Doppler shift measurements from a plurality of GSAT signals and a range estimator that can calculate a GSAT range from the GSAT position and a super range measurement of the transponded GPS signal wherein the super range measurement can represent a distance from the GPS to the GDER via the GSAT. A receiver location estimator that can estimate a GDER position using the GSAT position and the GSAT range may also be included in the GDAUG module.

The Doppler shift module can measure a Doppler shift in the transponded GPS signal and the GSAT ephemeris estimator can determine the GSAT position by extracting the Doppler shift due to the GSAT range from the Doppler shift of the transponded GPS signal to generate a Doppler shift of the GPS signal and by estimating the GSAT position using the Doppler shift of the GPS signal.

An exemplary method for global positioning using a global positioning system GPS and Doppler augmentation GDAUG end receiver GDER can also provided which method can comprise generating a GDER position using a time of flight TOF of a transponded GPS signal and a Doppler shift in a GDAUG satellite GSAT signal wherein the transponded GPS signal sent from a GSAT to the GDER can comprise a frequency shifted copy of a GPS signal from a GPS satellite to the GSAT and the GSAT signal can comprise a signal generated by the GSAT to the GDER.

Generating the GDER position can further comprise generating a super range measurement from the transponded GPS signal wherein the super range measurement can represent a distance from the GPS to the GDER via the GSAT measuring a Doppler shift in the GSAT signal determining a GSAT position by measuring a trend in a plurality of GSAT Doppler shift measurements from a plurality of GSAT signals calculating a GSAT range from the GSAT position and the super range measurement of the transponded GPS signal and estimating a GDER position using the GSAT position and the GSAT range.

A computer program product can also be provided which computer program product can comprise a non transitory computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein the computer readable program code being adapted to be executed to implement the method discussed above.

A global positioning system GPS and Doppler augmentation GDAUG satellite GSAT can also be provided which can comprise a GPS signal receiver for receiving a GPS signal a frequency shifter for generating a transponded GPS signal from the GPS signal using a GSAT frequency band substantially different from a GPS signal frequency band a signal generator for generating a GSAT signal and a signal transmitter for transmitting the transponded GPS signal and the GSAT signal to a GDAUG end receiver GDER .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The global positioning system GPS is a space based global navigation satellite system GNSS that can provide location and time information in various types of weather anywhere on or near the Earth where a GPS receiver has an unobstructed line of sight to four or more GPS satellites. When a GPS satellite is blocked from the GPS receiver so too few GPS satellites are in view of the GPS receiver the GPS receiver can provide no positioning information or it can generate inaccurate or incorrect positioning information. Alternatively the GPS signal on known GPS frequencies may be jammed by an external jamming source or other electronic equipment preventing the GPS receiver from receiving a valid GPS signal. Alternatively an external spoofing source may generate a false GPS signal on known GPS frequencies in an attempt to spoof the GPS receiver to generate inaccurate or incorrect positioning information.

A super range can include two legs of a bent pipe that can include a GPS to GSAT range represented by the TOF of L or L A C and a GSAT to GDER range represented by the TOF of S . The S signal which can be a copy or a frequency shifted copy of the L or L signal can encode the position of the GPS satellites. The GDER can receive the S signal and determine the time elapsed between the signal origin and the receiver s time. The GDER can also read the encoded GPS position information.

The GSAT can also generate a GSAT signal such as a tone that can be used to determine the Doppler shift due to the GSAT to GDER path. The tone can be a sinusoidal wave at specified frequency. The GSAT signal can be symbolically represented by a S signal. The S signal and the S signal can be transmitted from the GSAT to the GDER. Measuring a trend in Doppler shift of the S signal can allow the GDER to determine the ephemeris of the GSAT. Having information on the ephemeris of the GSAT the GDER can determine the distances of the two legs of the super range and accordingly the range from GSAT to GDER. The range may have some error if a timing offset between the GPS time on a GPS satellite clock and a clock used by the GDER occurs. The ephemeris can include a table various information such as the positions or orbits of a heavenly body e.g. a satellite on a number of dates and times in a regular sequence. Although three GPS satellites are shown in the GSAT location and the GDER location may be determined with one GPS satellite in some scenarios.

The carrier frequencies of the S and S signals may be selected to minimize and avoid jammed portions of the spectrum. The GDER can continue to measure range from GSAT and can measure and trend over time the Doppler shift in S due to the transmission from GSAT to GDER. The range and Doppler trend data from one or more GSATs can be used by the GDER to estimate the GDER s three dimensional 3 D position.

The GDER utilizing the GDAUG system can enable users to navigate when GPS signals are jammed or spoofed and can provide positioning assistance to a user that is not in view of a sufficient number of GPS satellites. The GDAUG system can also add precision to the existing GPS.

In another example the GDER can use range measurements including a super range measurement generated from a TOF of a transponded GPS signal and Doppler measurements to estimate the GDER s position. The Doppler measurements can be trended over time. To obtain range measurements the GDER can decode the contents of a GPS signal transponded by a GSAT. Decoding the transponded GPS signal can reveal a position of the GPS that originated the GPS signal and can provide a psuedo random noise PRN signal from which a super range or distance from the GPS satellite to the GSAT then to the GDER can be estimated. To obtain a range including the GSAT to GDER range and the GPS to GSAT range from the super range the GDER can estimate an ephemeris or orbit of the GSAT and subtract or otherwise remove the GSAT ephemeris component of range from the super range. The S signal can enable the receiver to estimate the ephemeris of the GSAT. The S signal can also help separate the Doppler shift measured on the S signal into a part due to transmission from the GPS satellite to GSAT and a part due to transmission from the GSAT to GDER. The Doppler shift of the part of the S signal due to transmission from the GPS satellite to GSAT can also be used to help estimate the ephemeris of the GSAT. The combination of Doppler shift of the S due to transmission from GSAT to GDER and the range measurements from GSAT to GDER can enable the GDER to estimate the GDER s position.

Some errors in the system can occur due to clock offsets bias between the GDER clock and the GPS satellite clocks. The biases can be resolved over time due to a moving position of the GSAT in one aspect and or by an altitude sensor or barometric sensor in another aspect.

Although not to be limiting in any way the GSATs in the GDAUG system can be a CUBESAT or other similar type of small or inexpensive type satellite. The CUBESAT can be a type of miniaturized satellite. In one embodiment the CUBESAT can comprise a volume of approximately a liter 10 centimeter cm cube with a weight less than 5 kilograms and preferably less than 2 kilograms kg . The CUBESAT can use commercial off the shelf electronics components. The GSAT can include functions such a power source or a power generation mechanism a mechanism to control heating and cooling of the satellite and or a mechanism to point a transmitter or antenna to the Earth. The power generation mechanism can include solar cells or panels. The power source can include a battery or capacitive device. The mechanism to control the heating and cooling of the satellite may control the heating and cooling of the satellite passively so the mechanism does not require a power source to function properly. The mechanism to point the transmitter or antenna to the Earth may steer or rotate the position of the satellite passively.

Each GSAT can act as a bend in a bent pipe between a GPS satellite and the GDER and can provide a transponder relay of the GPS signals. The transponder can detect the analog radio frequency RF signals received by the GPS satellite shift the frequency of the signal to a more favorable and or unjammed frequency and transmit the frequency shifted GPS signal S signal . In another example the GSAT can provide frequency hopping of the S signal.

As illustrated in the GSAT can include at least one receiving antenna a GPS signal receiver GPS receiver for receiving a GPS signal or plurality of GPS signals a frequency shifter for generating the S signal from the GPS signal L or L a signal generator for generating the S signal at least one transmitting antenna and or a signal transmitter for transmitting the S signal and or the S signal to the GDER. The S signal and or the S signal can be transmitted to the GDER in a simplex transmission. The simplex transmission is one way communication or communication that occurs in one direction only in contrast to duplex transmission or two way communication . The transmitting antenna can be a wide angle antenna to cover the Earth from a low orbit. The antenna gain can be limited with a wide angle antenna. The receiving antenna and the transmitting antenna can be a single antenna or a duplex antenna as long as the antenna can both receive a GPS signal and transmit the S and S signals. The S signal and the S signals can use a GSAT frequency band substantially different from the GPS signal. A substantially different GSAT frequency band can be a band that is not a GPS frequency band received by a typical GPS receiver. GPS satellites transmit L GPS signals on a common set of frequency carriers and in the same frequency bands. Similarly L signals can be transmitted on a different common carrier frequency. The S signals and the S signal can operate in a frequency band the GSAT frequency band between a very high frequency VHF band to a K under K band. The VHF band is the radio frequency range from 30 megahertz MHz to 300 MHz and the Kband is the radio frequency range from 10.95 gigahertz GHZ to 14.5 GHz or the band directly below the K band. The K band is the radio frequency range from 18 GHz to 27 GHz. The GSAT frequency band can include the VHF an ultra high frequency UHF and portions of a super high frequency SHF band such as the Kband. In another example illustrated in the GSAT can also include an amplifier for amplifying the received GPS signal the S signal and or the S signal.

As illustrated in the GDAUG system can include a constellation of low Earth orbit LEO satellites or a plurality of GSATs A H . LEO can generally be defined as an orbit within the locus extending from the Earth s surface up to an altitude of approximately 2 000 kilometers km . The GSAT can be a LEO satellite. A GPS can operate with a constellation of 24 GPS satellites A J. The GPS satellites can be medium Earth orbit MEO satellites. MEO also known as an intermediate circular orbit ICO can be a region of space around the Earth above the LEO altitude of approximately 2 000 km or 1 243 miles mi and below geostationary orbit altitude of 35 786 km or 22 236 ml . The geostationary orbit also known as the geostationary Earth orbit GEO can have a period equal to the Earth s rotational period and an orbital eccentricity of approximately zero. An object in the GEO can appear motionless at a fixed position in the sky relative to ground observers. The GSAT may be in an orbit between a GPS satellite and a surface of the Earth.

The number of GSATs in the GSAT constellation may be greater than the number of GPS satellites in the GPS constellation to provide global coverage or near global coverage. For example 66 GSATs in the GSAT constellation can provide global coverage from 800 km. Fewer GSATs can be used for non polar coverage or if gaps can be tolerated. Each GSAT can operate independently of other GSATs.

Each GPS satellite can transmit a GPS signal to a GSAT though as few as one may be used for GDAUG operation. For example illustrates four GPS satellites A D transmitting their GPS signal A D to a GSAT A. In another example a GPS satellite E can transmit a GPS signal B F to five GSATs A E. In another example the GDER can receive the S and S signals A C and H from four GSATs A C and H.

The GSAT can receive GPS signals from multiple GPS satellites and the GSAT can transmit the S and S signals to multiple GDERs not shown . The GDER can process the S and S signals from multiple GSATs. Using the GSAT in LEO instead of a GPS in MEO can reduce the power consumed to transmit the S and or S signals by placing the GSAT closer to the GDER. The GSAT can have a much lower cost simpler design and fewer components than a GPS. For example a GSAT may be configured so as to not include an atomic clock.

Given the close range of the GSAT in LEO to the GDER the signal strength for the S or the S signals can be less than 10 watts W in an example. In another example transmission of the S signal and the S signal can be alternated to save power. In another example the transmission of the S signal and the S signal can transmit at regular intervals less than the GPS transmission interval to save power. In an example the GSAT can be a satellite with a stable orbit within the LEO or MEO. In another example the GSAT can have an unknown ephemeris velocity and or position.

A GEO satellite can have a velocity of approximately 3 km second sec to match the velocity of the Earth with an apparent velocity of approximately 0 km sec. The apparent velocity can be an object s velocity such as a satellite relative to another object such as a GPS receiver or a GDER at a fixed point on the Earth. A GPS satellite can have an apparent velocity of less than 1 km sec relative to the fixed point on the Earth. The GSAT in the LEO or other LEO satellite can have an orbit with an apparent velocity of approximately 5 to 7.5 km sec relative to the fixed point on the Earth. If a GSAT has an apparent velocity of approximately 7 km sec relative to the fixed point on the Earth the GSAT can have an apparent velocity of approximately 6 km sec 7 km sec for the GSAT 1 km sec for the GPS satellite relative to a GPS satellite when the GSAT is moving towards the GPS satellite and the GSAT can have an apparent velocity of approximately 8 km sec 7 km sec for the GSAT 1 km sec for the GPS satellite relative to a GPS satellite when the GSAT is moving away from the GPS satellite. Measuring the speed of the GSAT using the Doppler shift of a signal transmitted by the GSAT can be used to generate global positioning in a system to augment the GPS.

A Doppler shift can be a change in a frequency or a change in a wavelength of a wave for an observer such as a receiver moving relative to the source of the wave such as a transmitter on a satellite. The motion of the observer the source or both can generate a change of the frequency. The relative changes in frequency due to the Doppler effect can be explained as follows. When the source of the waves is moving toward the observer each successive wave crest is emitted from a position closer to the observer than the previous wave. Therefore each wave takes slightly less time to reach the observer than the previous wave. Thus the time between the arrival of successive wave crests at the observer is reduced causing an increase in the frequency. While the waves are traveling the distance between successive wave fronts is reduced so the waves bunch together . Conversely if the source of waves is moving away from the observer each wave is emitted from a position farther from the observer than the previous wave so the arrival time between successive waves is increased reducing the frequency. The distance between successive wave fronts is increased so the waves spread out .

The Doppler shift can be proportional to the carrier frequency. Higher frequencies can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than lower frequencies but generating higher frequencies can consume more power in the GSAT than lower frequencies. Objects moving at greater velocities relative to each other can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than objects moving at slower velocities relative to each other. Objects at closer distances to each other can provide more accuracy in Doppler measurements than objects at farther distances to each other. The GSAT operating in LEO can impose a greater amount of Doppler shift on the transponded signal than a direct signal between the GPS satellite and the GDER. The Doppler shift of the GSAT to a known point can uniquely determine the orbital parameters of the GSAT. The Doppler shift can be the shift between GPS and the GSAT and or GSAT and the GDER

Each GPS signal received by the GSAT can experience a Doppler shift in frequency due to the relative motion between each GPS satellite and the GSAT. Thus the GSAT can receive a different Doppler shift for each GPS signal. The GSAT can frequency shift each GPS signal including the respective Doppler shift and generate a S signal for each GPS signal received and transmit each S to the GDER. Each S signal received by the GDER can also experience a Doppler shift in frequency due to the relative motion between the GSAT and the GDER. So each transponded GPS signal S can be double Doppler shifted when received by the GDER. Each S signal can have the sum of the Doppler shift from the GPS satellite to the GSAT in the L and or L signals and the Doppler shift from the GSAT to the GDER. Due to the velocity of the GSAT relative to the GDER and the GPS satellite the S signals generated from the GPS satellites in view can have much greater possible Doppler frequency shift than GPS signals sent directly from the GPS satellites to the GDER. The S signals can have the same code division multiple access CDMA codes as the original GPS signals L and or L signals . The GDER can despread demodulate and or decode the S signals to obtain the ephemeris of each GPS satellite and to estimate the time of signal flight from GPS to the GDER via the GSAT. The time of flight can provide a two leg super range for each S signal. Each super range can be the sum of the distances from the GPS satellite associated with the S signal to the GSAT and from the GSAT to the GDER.

The GDER can also receive the S signal generated by the GSAT. The Doppler shift of S can be computed to determine a GSAT Doppler shift measurement from the GSAT to the GDER. The measurement can be used to determine a fraction of the Doppler shift of S due to the path from the GPS satellite to the GSAT and or a fraction of the Doppler shift of S due to the path from the GSAT to the GDER. The Doppler shift of each GPS signal L and or L as received by GSAT can be represented by GLD for N GPS signals where N and n are positive integers and n N. The S signal and the S signal can be transmitted on different frequencies. Each S signal can be transmitted on a different frequency from other S signals. In another example the frequency of the S signal and the S signal can vary in a coordinated scheme between the GSAT and the GDER.

Each GLDcan vary with time in a pattern corresponding to relative orbits of each GPS and GSAT. The GDER can estimate the position of the GSAT using each GLDand a previously decoded ephemeris of each GPS. The estimate of ephemeris can be aided by trending the Doppler shift of S. Thus a 3 D GSAT position or GSAT orbit and a GPS to GSAT range for each super range measurement or value can be determined.

The remaining distance in each super range after the associated GPS to GSAT range is removed can be a GSAT range or GSAT to GDER range . A residual error in the range estimate can be due to a difference in time between the GDER clock and the GPS clock. The GSAT processing delay can be known and can include the time between receiving a GPS signal at the GSAT and transmitting the signal from the GSAT. GDERs using more accurate oscillators can have less clock error. The GDER clock error can be substantial e.g. 1 microsecond psec can corresponds to a 300 meter error and can adversely affect the estimated volume in which the GDER is located. The estimated volume can be a long thin cylinder whose long dimension is centered on the line between the GSAT and GDER. As the GSAT moves rapidly across the sky a series of error cylinders can be generated with a long axis of each error cylinder pointing towards the GSAT. The GDER can compute the intersections of the long cylinders to determine a final 3 D position of GDER. Once a 3 D position of the GDER is known the GDER can correct clock errors and update its position very precisely in 3 D coordinates. Alternatively signals from two or more GSATs may be received in parallel or sequentially to refine the position estimate and reduce remove the effects of clock bias.

A trend in the Doppler shift of S signals combined with range measurements can be used to precisely determine the location of the GDER within a small circular error at a known altitude or with a stable altitude. When a prior knowledge of the GDER s altitude is not known an altimeter can be used to provide an altitude of the GDER. The altimeter can be used to initialize the altitude of the GDER. The altimeter can be a pressure altimeter or a barometric altimeter but other types of altimeters can also be used such as a sonic altimeter or a RADAR radio detection and ranging altimeter. When altitude is not known the GDER may occupy a cylindrical region of uncertainty.

The GDAUG module can generate a GDER position using a TOF super range measurement a Doppler shift in a plurality of transponded GPS signals S signals and or a Doppler shift in a GSAT signal S signals . The GDAUG module can include a Doppler shift module a GSAT ephemeris estimator a range estimator and a receiver location estimator . The Doppler shift module can measure a Doppler shift in the S signals and a Doppler shift in the S signals. The Doppler shift in the S signal can represent the double Doppler shift of the combined Doppler shift in the L or L signal plus the Doppler shift in transponded L or L signal from the GSAT to the GDER. The Doppler shift in the S signal or GSAT Doppler shift measurement can be used to derive the portion of Doppler shift of the S signal due to a GSAT to GDER distance. The GSAT Doppler shift measurement can provide the Doppler frequency shift due to the path from GSAT to GDER.

The GSAT ephemeris estimator can determine a GSAT position by removing subtracting or otherwise compensating for the GSAT Doppler shift measurement in each of the super range measurements to generate GPS to GSAT ranges for each super range. The GSAT position can then be generated from GPS satellite positions extracted from the S signals and the GPS to GSAT ranges. The GSAT ephemeris estimator can continually iterate the GSAT position based on updated S signals updated S signals updated super ranges updated GSAT to GDER ranges and or updated GPS to GSAT ranges. The GSAT ephemeris estimator can seed or initialize the iteration with an expected orbit for the GSAT.

The range estimator can calculate a GSAT range from the GSAT to the GDER by removing the GPS to GSAT range from an associated super range measurement. The receiver location estimator can estimate a GDER position using the GSAT position and the GSAT range plus the portion of Doppler shift of S from GSAT to GDER and or the Doppler shift in S. The range estimator can continually iterate the GDER position based on the updated GSAT position and or the updated GSAT range.

The GDAUG module can report and iterate the position and velocity of the GDER and GSAT along with the GSAT ephemeris. The GSAT ephemeris estimator can trend the GSAT location over time to generate an instantaneous or average GSAT velocity and or a GSAT ephemeris. The Doppler shift module can trend the Doppler shift of the S signals and the S signal to generate a 3 D GSAT location a GSAT velocity and or a GSAT ephemeris. The trending of the S signals by the Doppler shift module can be used to verify the GDER position and or the GDER velocity.

A GDER location can be determined with greater accuracy when the GDER is stationary versus a mobile GDER. Movement in the GDER can introduce additional errors and inaccuracies which can be corrected with trending of the GSAT location the trending of the Doppler shift of the S signals and or the trending of the Doppler shift of the S signal. An inertial measurement unit IMU such as a pedometer can be included in the GDER to account for the movement of a GDER. The IMU and or the altimeter can be included in the receiver location estimator of the GDER. The GDAUG module can reset the clock bias using S signals and or the 3 D GSAT location.

The GDER location provided by the GDAUG module or GDAUG location can be compared with the GDER location provided by the GPS receiver or GPS location in a GPS and GDAUG location comparison module . The GPS and GDAUG location comparison module can determine a difference between the GDAUG location and the GPS location and determine if the locations are within a specified tolerance. When the locations are outside a specified tolerance the GDER can determine that spoofing or jamming is occurring and display or use the GDAUG location. If the GPS receiver is unable to generate a GPS location or an accurate GPS location due to jamming or not enough GPS satellites in view of the GDER the GDER can use the GDAUG location. If the GDAUG module is unable to generate a GDAUG location or an accurate GDAUG location due to a GSAT not in view of the GDER or a GPS not in view of the GSAT the GDER can use the GPS location. In another example the GDAUG module the GPS and GDAUG location comparison module and the GPS receiver can be coupled to an output device . The output device can be a display screen printer an input output I O port or transmitter that can transmit the location to another device. In another example the GDER not shown can also combine the processing of GPS signals S signals and S signals to generate a composite GPS GDAUG location.

When the GDER already determined the GDER position or location initially from the GDAUG module the GPS receiver or other global positioning mechanism a condition known as a hot start or steady state positioning signals from one or two GSATS may be used to maintain a GDER s 3 D location. The GDER location may become more accurate with a longer GDER time of operation. For example the GDER can produce accuracy within a 100 meter m range within 70 seconds of operation 50 m within 85 seconds of operation and 25 m within 100 seconds of operation. The accuracy can continue to improve with time. The time to initialize the GDER location can depend on the number of GSATs in view and whether the GDER is moving or not. A stationary GDER may be initialized more rapidly than a moving GDER.

The GDAUG system can provide reuse of GPS signals GPS spoof detection and a backup global positioning system if the GPS is jammed or spoofed. The GDAUG system can provide simplex communication which can be faster more accurate and use less satellite processing than TRANSIT a predecessor system to GPS also known as Navy Navigation Satellite System NAVSAT the duplex communication systems of GLOBALSTAR a LEO satellite constellation for satellite phone and low speed data communications or GATEWAY and other duplex communication systems. The GDAUG system can be used when fewer than three GPS satellites have a direct LOS with the GDER.

Another example provides a method for global positioning using a global positioning system GPS and Doppler augmentation GDAUG end receiver GDER as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of generating a GDER position using a time of flight TOF of a transponded GPS signal and a Doppler shift in a GDAUG satellite GSAT signal wherein the transponded GPS signal sent from a GSAT to the GDER comprises a frequency shifted copy of a GPS signal from a GPS satellite to the GSAT and the GSAT signal comprises a signal generated by the GSAT to the GDER as in block .

The operation of generating a GDER position can include generating a super range measurement from the transponded GPS signal wherein the super range measurement represents a distance from the GPS to the GDER via the GSAT measuring a Doppler shift in the GSAT signal determining a GSAT position by measuring a trend in a plurality of GSAT Doppler shift measurements from a plurality of GSAT signals calculating a GSAT range from the GSAT position and the super range measurement of the transponded GPS signal and estimating a GDER position using the GSAT position and the GSAT range. The operation of determining the GSAT position can further include measuring a Doppler shift in the transponded GPS signal extracting the Doppler shift due to the GSAT range from the Doppler shift of the transponded GPS signal to generate a Doppler shift of the GPS signal and estimating the GSAT position using the Doppler shift of the GPS signal. The method can further include the operations of receiving the plurality of transponded GPS signals and the GSAT signal demodulating the plurality of transponded GPS signals and detecting the GSAT signal.

Another example provides a method for global positioning using a global positioning system GPS and doppler augmentation GDAUG satellite GSAT as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of transmitting a transponded GPS signal wherein the transponded GPS signal is a frequency shifted copy of a received GPS signal from one of a plurality of GPS satellites as in block . The operation of transmitting a GSAT signal follows as in block .

The operation of transmitting a transponded GPS signal can include receiving a GPS signal from a GPS satellite by the GSAT frequency shifting the GPS signal to generate a transponded GPS signal and transmitting the transponded GPS signal to a GDAUG end receiver GDER .

In another embodiment global positioning can be determined using a space location inertial navigation geopositioning system SPACELINGS . illustrates a segment of SPACELINGS which can be used to provide GPS type position accuracy to a SPACELINGS end receiver SER A C using a high altitude satellite HAS to generate or relay downlinked pseudo random noise code PRN code signals or other GPS like signals A B and H relayed through a SPACELINGS satellite SLS A H. The downlinked PRN signals A B and H from the HAS to the SLS can be represented symbolically by H and H signals. In other examples H and H can represent the frequency carriers of the H and H signals. The transponded PRN signal A D and H from the SLS to the SER can be symbolically represented by a TS signal. In other examples TS can represent the frequency carrier of the TS signal. A downlink can represent a channel for transmission or a signal transmitted from a higher altitude device such as a satellite or a higher satellite to a lower altitude device such as an end receiver a ground station or a lower satellite. Similarly an uplink can represent a channel for transmission or signal transmitted from a lower altitude device such as an end receiver a ground station or a lower satellite to a higher altitude device such as a satellite or a higher satellite.

The HAS can have an altitude that exceeds a GPS satellite in a MEO a GEO or a high Earth orbit HEO . The HEO is a geocentric orbit whose apogee i.e. the highest or most distant point lies above that of a geosynchronous orbit. In an example a MEO satellite can have an orbital altitude of approximately 20 km with a near 12 hour orbit. A GEO can have a near 24 hour orbit or an orbit near the rotational rate of the Earth hence geostationary Earth orbit GEO . The HAS can be further away from the Earth than a GPS satellite and the HAS can be in a LOS of more LEO satellites such as SLSs and GSATs than a GPS satellite. The constellation of HASs can be smaller than the constellation of GPS satellites because the HAS can transmit to more LEO satellites such as SLSs and GSATs . In an embodiment the constellation of HASs can include one or two satellites. For example a GEO satellite can cover or be in the LOS of three quarters of the LEO satellites. In contrast the constellation of GPS satellites is 24 satellites with some spare or reserve satellites. The higher the orbit of the HAS can reduce the number of satellites in the HAS constellation. The HAS constellation can be a substitute or a redundant global positioning system GPS operating using different frequencies and or coding scheme from the GPS.

The SPACELINGS can provide timely space based positioning navigation and timing PNT backup or restoration to GPS capability in case GPS is completely or partially disabled. The SPACELINGS can provide PNT services in case of loss of GPS. In addition the SPACELINGS can provide users of GPS e.g. user with a GPS receiver and a SER or an integrated GPS and SPACELINGS end receiver adequate position and or navigation information when a GPS receiver is jammed spoofed or insufficient GPS satellites are in view of the end receiver. The SPACELINGS can also add precision to the existing GPS. In an embodiment the SPACELINGS can remove the dependency on GPS and eliminate a world wide network of ground stations as is used in GPS. The SPACELINGS can provide capability in cases of a total loss of the GPS and can augment GPS in environments e.g. urban environments where obtaining a line of sight LOS to at least four GPS satellites can be difficult. The SPACELINGS can provide a significant reduction in complexity and cost of the SLS and SER compared to the GSAT and GDER by having the LEO satellite e.g. SLS transmit on one frequency carrier instead of two frequency carriers as transmitted by the GSAT and having the end receiver e.g. SER receive one carrier instead of two frequency carriers as received by the GDER .

The SPACELINGS can provide PNT restoration and GPS augmentation system using very small satellites. The augmentation can provide backup signals in case a GPS receiver is jammed or spoofed or there are too few GPS satellites in view. The SLS can be a CUBESAT or other similar type of small or inexpensive type satellite with functionality similar to the GSAT but to provide SPACELINGS functionality. SLS can receive signals from the HAS and transpond the signals to a SER whereas the GSAT can receive GPS signals from the GPS satellite and transpond the GPS signals to a GDER as well as generate a GSAT signal and transmit the GSAT signal to the GDER. The SLS payload or hardware on the satellite can be reduced or simplified relative to the GSAT since the SLS can avoid generating a new or independent signal e.g. GSAT signal .

In an example SPACELINGS can use a modest size constellation in LEO where each SPACELINGS satellite SLS in LEO has line of sight LOS to one or more high altitude satellites HAS such as GEO satellites. Each HAS can provide a psuedo random noise PRN signal on each of two known carrier frequencies or carrier frequencies such as H and H. In an embodiment one HAS can cover most of the LEO satellites and two HAS can provide global coverage to the LEO satellites.

The HAS can generate two PRN code signals or other GPS like signals such as commercial coarse acquisition C A type code a military P Y type code or an M type code using a varied GPS signal structure on at least two different carrier frequencies e.g. H and H . The H and H can operate on a different frequency carrier from a GPS frequency carrier such as L and L. The H and H can operate on a different frequency carrier as the common carrier or TS signal transmitted from the SLS to the SER.

Each SLS acts as a bent pipe similar to a GSAT transponder relay of the downlink PRN signals or HAS signals as previously discussed with GDAUG. The SLS can detects two analog radio frequency RF signals from the HAS can shift each HAS signal and combine the HAS signals to a new but common frequency e.g. TS . The common frequency of TS can be a more favorable unjammed frequency which can be frequency hopped in a known configuration for extra protection against spoofing and jamming.

A receiver on the SLS which SLS can be in LEO can hear a Doppler shift for each of H and H. The TS transponded signal e.g. transponded PRN signal can be double Doppler shifted when received by a SER as discussed below. The double Doppler shifted transponded PRN signal can include the sum of the Doppler shift from the HAS to the SLS and the SLS to the SER e.g. the user . The two signals can be used by the end receiver e.g. SER to determine the Doppler shift from the HAS to the SLS and the remaining Doppler shift from the SLS to the SER in a similar manner as described with the GDER.

The SER can despread and or code the transponded signals to obtain the ephemeris of each HAS satellite and the SER can estimate the time of signal flight from HAS to SER. The time of flight can provide the two leg super range for each HAS transponded signal where each leg represents a signal path. Each super range can be the sum of the distances from HAS to SLS to SER.

The Doppler shift from HAS to SLS can be used by the SER to determine the ephemeris of each SLS. The SER can then determine the Doppler shift from the SLS to the SER and portion of the super range from SLS to SER. The time history of these range and Doppler shift measurements can be used by the SER to estimate a position of the SER.

The H and H frequency carriers can differ from the frequency carrier of the TS signal. The H H and TS signals can operate in a frequency band a HAS frequency band or a SLS frequency band between a very high frequency VHF band to a K under K band. The H H and TS signals can operate in a frequency band higher than the frequency band used for GPS which can eliminate some of the adverse effects of the ionosphere but the higher frequency may also use more power to transmit the PRN signals relative to GPS signals.

The two signals on a common carrier have unique Doppler shifts when received by the LEO satellite which can be used in turn by the end receiver to deduce the LEO ephemeris. In another example the double Doppler shift can be extracted from two signals which can be shown mathematically. The HAS can broadcast or transmit the H and H signals to the SLS. The SLS can receive

In another example H can be frequency shifted by the common frequency carrier of TS by a known frequency f so the H component of TS received at the SER can be represented by

As illustrated in the high altitude satellite HAS can include a PRN signal generator a downlink PRN signal transmitter at least one SLS transmitting antenna and an optional amplifier . The PRN signal generator can generate the separate H and H signals on different frequency carriers which can be transmitted on downlink PRN signal transmitter via the at least one SLS transmitting antenna. An amplifier may be use to increase or boost the power of the downlink PRN signal. The high altitude satellite HAS may include a precise clock such as an atomic clock used in generating the PRN signals. The PRN signals may include information similar to a GPS signal such as satellite ephemeris or position information or a transmission time but for the HAS. The H and or H signals can be transmitted to the SLS in a simplex transmission.

The separate H and H signals can be received by the SPACELINGS satellite SLS which can include at least one HAS receiving antenna a HAS signal receiver like a GPS receiver but for the HAS for receiving the HAS signals e.g. H and H a frequency shifter for generating the TS signal from the HAS signals H and or H at least one SER transmitting antenna and or a transponded PRN signal transmitter for combining the frequency shifted H and H signal and transmitting those signals on a common frequency carrier TS to the SER . The TS signals can be transmitted to the SER in a simplex transmission. The SER transmitting antenna can be a wide angle antenna to cover the Earth from a low orbit. An amplifier may be use to increase or boost the power of the transponded PRN signal.

The SPACELINGS end receiver SER can include a LEO e.g. SLS receiver antenna a transponded PRN signal receiver a signal despreader and a SPACELINGS module . The SER can determine the Doppler shift and a HAS to SLS relative velocity due to a HAS to SLS signal path and the Doppler shift and a SLS to SER relative velocity due to a SLS to SER signal path which can be processed by one of the modules of the SER. The SPACELINGS module can generate a global position using a TOF super range measurement and a Doppler shift in a plurality of transponded PRN signals e.g. H and H signals . The SPACELINGS module can include a Doppler shift module a SLS ephemeris estimator which is functions similar to a GSAT ephemeris estimator shown in but for a SLS a range estimator and a receiver location estimator . In an example the SPACELINGS module functions similar to the GDAUG module and generates a global position but for transponded PRN signals whereas the GDAUG module used the transponded GPS signals and a GSAT signal.

Another example provides a method for global positioning using a space location inertial navigation geopositioning system SPACELINGS end receiver SER as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of generating a global position using a time of flight TOF and a Doppler shift of transponded pseudo random noise PRN signals on a common frequency carrier wherein the transponded PRN signals sent from a SPACELINGS satellite SLS to the SER comprises a frequency shifted copy of at least two downlink PRN signals from a high altitude satellite HAS to the SLS using at least two different frequency carriers from the common frequency carrier as in block .

In another embodiment the HAS can generate a single downlink PRN signal e.g. H or H which can be transmitted to the SLS. The SLS can frequency shift the downlink PRN signal to a common frequency carrier TS and transmit the signal to the SER or a ground station e.g. ground site .

Another example provides a method for global positioning using a space location inertial navigation geopositioning system SPACELINGS end receiver SER as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of generating a global position using a time of flight TOF and a Doppler shift of a transponded pseudo random noise PRN signal on a common frequency carrier wherein the transponded PRN signal sent from a SPACELINGS satellite SLS to the SER comprises a frequency shifted copy of a downlink PRN signal from a high altitude satellite HAS to the SLS using different frequency carrier from the common frequency carrier as in block .

In another embodiment the HAS can generate a plurality of downlink PRN signals e.g. H and H which can be transmitted to the SLS. The SLS can frequency shift the H signal to a first frequency carrier TSA and frequency shift the H signal to a second frequency carrier TSB and transmit both signals via the TSA and TSB respectively to the SER or a ground station e.g. ground site .

As illustrated in the GPS satellite can include GPS signal generator GPS signal transmitter and at least one GPS transmitting antenna . The GPS signal generator can generate the separate L and L signals on different frequency carriers which can be transmitted on GPS signal transmitter via the at least one GPS transmitting antenna.

The separate L and L signals may be received by the SPACELINGS satellite SLS which can include at least one GPS receiving antenna a GPS signal receiver for receiving the GPS signals e.g. L and L a frequency shifter for generating the TS signal from the GPS signals L and or L at least one SER transmitting antenna and or a transponded GPS signal transmitter for combining the frequency shifted L and L signal and transmitting those signals on a common frequency carrier TS to the SER . The TS signals can be transmitted to the SER in a simplex transmission. The SER transmitting antenna can be a wide angle antenna to cover the Earth from a low orbit. An amplifier may be use to increase or boost the power of the transponded GPS signal. In another example the SLS can be configured to receive GPS signals HAS signals and or other PRN signals.

The SPACELINGS end receiver SER can include a GPS receiver antenna a transponded GPS signal receiver a signal despreader and a SPACELINGS module . The SER can determine the Doppler shift and a GPS to SLS relative velocity due to a GPS to SLS signal path and the Doppler shift and a SLS to SER relative velocity due to a SLS to SER signal path which can be processed by one of the modules of the SER. The SPACELINGS module can generate a global position using a TOF super range measurement and a Doppler shift in a plurality of transponded GPS signals e.g. L and L signals .

Another example provides a method for global positioning using a space location inertial navigation geopositioning system SPACELINGS end receiver SER as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of generating a global position using a time of flight TOF and a Doppler shift of a transponded global positioning system GPS signal on a common frequency carrier wherein the transponded GPS signals sent from a SPACELINGS satellite SLS to the SER comprises a frequency shifted copy of at least two GPS signals from a GPS satellite to the SLS using at least two different frequency carriers from the common frequency carrier as in block .

In another embodiment the PRN signals can originate at a ground site which can avoid flying an atomic clock on the HAS. The PRN signals can be uplinked to one or more HAS e.g. GEO satellites or other high altitude platforms and the PRN signals can be in turn transponded to two carrier frequencies. The ground site can also receive the LEO satellite signals and use them to determine the ephemeris of each LEO satellite. The uplinked signal can contain the ephemeris information of each LEO satellite the location of the HAS and the location of the ground site. The SER e.g. end receiver can use range to the LEO satellite and Doppler shift from the LEO to estimate the SER position

Using GEO platforms or GEO transponders can work without a world wide network of known ground stations. In addition one HAS or GEO satellite can provide signals to LEO satellites covering more than 75 of Earth s surface. Two HAS or GEO satellites can provide global coverage with significant redundancy.

The SER A C can use the PRN signal to compute a super duper range a range with 3 separate signal transmission paths and 3 possible Doppler shifts which can include the signal path from GS to HAS T to SLS A C to SER A C. Using the encoded information and knowledge of the transponder delays the only unknown may be the range from SLS to SER. The component of the Doppler shift from SLS to SER can be extracted using the known transponder or frequency shifts and the ephemeris of the SLS and the HAS T. The SER can use the range and Doppler time history from each SLS to estimate a SER position.

As illustrated in the ground site GS can include a PRN signal generator a PRN signal transmitter and at least one PRN transmitting antenna . The GS can also include a precise clock like an atomic clock used for the PRN signal generation. The GPS signal generator can generate the G signal on specified frequency carrier which can be transmitted on PRN signal transmitter via the at least one PRN transmitting antenna to the HAS T. An amplifier may be use to increase or boost the power of the downlink PRN signal.

In another embodiment the GS can include at least one PRN receiving antenna a transponded PRN signal receiver and a HAS and or SLS ephemeris updater . The transponded PRN signal receiver can be configured to receive PRN or GPS signals such as TS from the SLS. The HAS and or SLS ephemeris updater can be used to determine and refine a HAS ephemeris and or a SLS ephemeris from the super duper range embedded in the TS signal. In an example the HAS and or SLS ephemeris updater can use the methods and modules similar to those used in the SER to determine the HAS ephemeris and or the SLS ephemeris. In an example the ground station position or location can be known which can eliminate an unknown in the super duper range calculations so the HAS ephemeris and or the SLS ephemeris may be determined with a single downlink PRN signal e.g. H or H . No clock bias may be used since the PRN signal received e.g. TS by the GS originates at GS e.g. G with Doppler shifts where the same clock used for generation can be used for reception. The Doppler shift for a G signal path of the range may be very small. In another example the HAS may be a GEO satellite so the Doppler shift of the G signal path may be near zero or a known value e.g. a correction term since the GEO satellite is in a relatively constant position to the Earth.

In another configuration the GS can include the at least one PRN receiving antenna the transponded PRN signal receiver the HAS and or SLS ephemeris updater the signal generator the PRN signal transmitter and at least one PRN transmitting antenna . The HAS and or SLS ephemeris determined by the HAS and or SLS ephemeris updater can be used by the PRN signal generator to correct the HAS and or SLS position information generated for the uplink PRN signal G.

The high altitude satellite HAS or HAS T can include at least one GS receiving antenna an uplink GS signal receiver a frequency shifter downlink PRN signal transmitter at least one SLS transmitting antenna and an optional amplifier . The HAS T can relay the G signal from the GS as the H and or H signal s to the SLS. The frequency shifter or the downlink PRN signal transmitter can generate the H and or H signal s on different frequency carriers from the G signal. The amplifier may be use to increase or boost the power of the downlink PRN signal. The SLS and SER can operate in a manner similar to the SLS and SER previously described but using three signal paths instead of two signal paths.

The positional accuracy of the SER and the GS can depend on a number of SLS in view a time to process a starting knowledge of position a SER velocity and a SER acceleration. Once an initial SER position is established a very fast convergence can occur to update the SER position.

The SER position can be initialized with various options such as user input a handover from a last GPS position signals from two or more SLS or extended time measurements with one SLS. In many cases PRN signals from a single SLS can provide enough information to locate the position of the SER. When starting cold e.g. without any initial position information the SER may receive some data from two or more SLS at least sequentially depending on the acceleration of the SER and information provided by velocity sensors or INS data associated with the SER. Sequentially as used herein means two satellites that are visible to the end receiver at the same time simultaneously even if just briefly such as one satellite coming above the horizon while another satellite is setting behind the horizon. In an embodiment the SER can include an inertial measurement unit IMU an inertial navigation system INS a motion sensor an accelerometer a magnetometer a barometer a rotation sensor a gyroscope wheel counters odometers or a combination of these sensors. The sensor may be used to provide initial position information of the SER and or velocity or acceleration of the SER which can reduce the time for convergence on the SER position determination.

Having a ground site receive and trend data from the HAS T can improve the knowledge of the HAS ephemeris e.g. HAS T ephemeris and reduce the time to convergence on the SER position determination.

In an embodiment the space location inertial navigation geopositioning system SPACELINGS can restore and or replace GPS like capability without GPS satellites. The SPACELINGS can enables rapid 3 D determination of position for receivers in motion and at rest using signals from only one satellite e.g. SLS which determination may be achieved more rapid than GDAUG. The SPACELINGS can provide a low cost augmentation to the GPS service. The SPACELINGS can use very small LEO satellites including CUBESATs for a large constellation. In an embodiment the SPACELINGS can use a small constellation of the more expensive HAS relative to the size of the LEO satellites. The SPACELINGS can have significant re use of existing receiver hardware and techniques. The performance of SPACELINGS is scalable with size of the LEO satellites and HAS constellation. In an embodiment most processing can be offloaded from the space segment of the SPACELINGS to the ground segment where components can be cheaper and easier to maintain.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

