---

title: Systems and methods for multiple photo fee stories
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a designation of one or more items of digital media; receiving a communication regarding the one or more items of digital media; associating the one or more items of digital media with the communication based on the designation; and setting a privacy level for the communication and the one or more items of digital media on a social-networking system based on a privacy setting of a user on the social-networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09378393&OS=09378393&RS=09378393
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09378393
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 565 594 filed Aug. 2 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of social networking. More particularly the present invention provides a technique for selecting multiple images within a user interface of a social networking system.

Internet social networks have become a significant phenomenon. Social networks allow an internet user to create an account and a user profile often for free and interact with other users of the social network. A social network user can gain access to the profile of another user by requesting to add him or her as a friend. Once approved the friendship typically gives both users access to each other s profiles and the content posted on them. Friends posts may appear as news stories in each other s news feeds and friends can usually comment on each other s news stories. Social network users typically seek to assemble a group of friends or followers with whom they interact. Often most information on a user s profile is only accessible to the user s friends.

Social networks are providing users with increasingly sophisticated functionality. Early social networks offered little more than a simple interface for users to communicate and post messages. Now on many social networks users may share numerous different types of content and interact with each other s content in a variety of ways. Content shared on a social network may include digital media such as images. Users may assemble albums that include photographs and other content and share their albums with their friends. Because of their collaborative nature social networks have now become a popular means by which many people share photos and other media content.

In addition as technology has evolved social networks have introduced tools for accessing social networking systems from a growing variety of technology platforms. Initially because most users accessed the Internet exclusively from desktop computers user interfaces of social networking systems were designed with desktop web browsers in mind. However the exponential growth of mobile computing has facilitated Internet access from a variety of different devices and platforms. Because each technology platform has different technical capabilities and limitations interfaces of social networks customized for a particular platform are needed.

To allow for ease of navigation within a photo browsing interface of a social networking system embodiments of the invention include systems methods and computer readable media to facilitate selection of multiple photos within an interface of a social networking system. A designation of a first image is received from within at least one of a single image view and a camera view. Based on the designation the first image is added to a communication.

In an embodiment the first image may be received from a camera. The first image may be received from within a social networking application or from within a dedicated camera application. The single image view may be a gallery view.

In an embodiment the communication may be provided to the social networking system. The communication may comprise text associated with the first image. In another embodiment a de designation of the first image for sharing may be received. The first image may be removed from the communication. A designation of a second image for sharing may be received. The second image may be added to the communication.

In an embodiment receiving the designation of the first image for sharing may be based on a user selection of a check mark option. Receiving the designation of the first image for sharing may be based on a user selection of a share shutter option. Receiving the designation of the first image for sharing may be based on a voice command. Receiving the designation of the first image for sharing may be based on an interaction with an input mechanism. The input mechanism may be a touchscreen or a pointing device.

In an embodiment a reference indicative of a number of images designated for sharing may be displayed. A number for display may be incremented when an additional image is designated for sharing.

In another embodiment the privacy level of the communication and the designated images is based on the privacy setting selected by a user. The privacy level of the communication and the designated images will be the same within the social networking system. The user may select a privacy setting to allow only himself to have access to the communication and the designated images. Or the user may select a privacy setting to allow his friends on the social networking system to have access to the communication and the designated images.

In an alternative embodiment the communication and the designated images may contain tag data identifying one or more people on a social networking system. The privacy level of the communication and the designated images is adjusted according to the one or more people identified in the tag data. Based on the privacy settings selected by the user the tagged people may have access to the communication and designated images. Or alternatively the friends of the tagged people may have access to the communication and designated images as well.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS 4 and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable customization of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device . In one embodiment the user device also includes an image processing module a camera and a storage module .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server and an image processing module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user account store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user account store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user account store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user account store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user account store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user account store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user account store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user account store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user account store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

The image processing module of the social networking system and the image processing module of the user device provide image management capabilities. In an embodiment the image processing module receives images captured by a camera within the user device or provided to the user device from another source. The images may be saved to a storage module within the user device . A user input applied to the user device may cause an image saved in the storage module to be designated for sharing added to a message and provided to the social networking system . The functionality of designating images for sharing is described in further detail below.

Users may take advantage of the collaborative features and functionality of the social networking system to upload and share digital images. A user of the social networking system may upload a profile picture that features prominently on her profile and identifies her to friends and other users. A user may also upload a cover image that may be displayed as a banner across the top of the user s profile. In addition to a profile picture and a cover image a user may upload images to share with other users such as photographs of an event artwork professional photography portfolios photos from nature or any other type of digital images.

With the advent of mobile devices that include built in cameras and connect to wireless data networks photo sharing has become an increasingly prominent feature of social networking systems. In Brady Carr has shared the photograph by capturing the photograph with the digital camera transferring the photograph from the digital camera to the computer using a wired connection and uploading the photograph from the computer to the social networking system . However camera enabled mobile devices have made the process of sharing a photograph easier. An operator of the social networking system may provide a social networking application for the mobile device that allows the user to easily upload photographs directly from his mobile device. Moreover because people may carry mobile devices such as smartphones with them more often than they carry dedicated cameras they may have more opportunities to capture photographs and share them.

The camera of the mobile device may be used to capture images from within a dedicated camera application or from within the social networking application on the mobile device. Images captured by the camera may be stored in a local storage module within the mobile device such as the storage module for later use. Images captured by the camera or other images stored in the local storage module within the mobile device may be uploaded to the social networking system using the social networking application. According to one embodiment of the invention the camera application may be initialized separately from the social network application and an option to upload images to the social networking system using the social networking application may be selected from within the camera application. According to another embodiment the camera may be accessed from within the social networking application. Images that are captured using the camera or otherwise stored on the mobile device may be viewed within a single image view wherein one image is displayed within the interface of the mobile device. A single image view may refer to a gallery view. Alternatively images that are captured using the camera or otherwise stored on the mobile device may be viewed within a multi image view wherein multiple images are simultaneously displayed in compact form within the interface of the mobile device. A multi image view may refer to a thumbnail view.

According to another embodiment of the invention the camera may be accessed from within the social networking application such that an image captured by the camera may be more easily selected for upload to the social networking system . illustrates a home screen view within an interface of the social networking application on a mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the illustrated example the user has initialized the social networking application which displays a news feed within the home screen view . From within an options menu the user selects an option to access functionality for capturing an image using a camera of the mobile device . The option may allow the user to use the camera from within the interface of the social networking application.

According to one embodiment of the invention the user may select a gallery option within the interface to view images stored on the mobile device within a single image view. The single image view may be a gallery view. illustrates a gallery view within an interface of the social networking application on a mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the illustrated example the gallery view displays an image of a sunset. The image may have been captured using a camera of the mobile device or otherwise stored within the mobile device . The user may select a check mark option to designate the image for sharing and add it to a message. The user may continue browsing images in the gallery view by for example swiping across the screen of the mobile device using his finger and designate additional images for sharing by selecting the check mark option and adding them to the message. According to one embodiment the user may apply edits to the currently displayed image by selecting an edit option which may activate a photo editing interface similar to the photo editing panel as shown in .

The number of captured images that has been added to the message thus far is displayed within a badge accompanying a message compose icon . In the illustrated example four images have thus far been added to the message. To remove an image from the message i.e. to un designate an image for sharing the user may browse to a designated image within the gallery view and de select the check mark option . The user may delete the image by selecting the delete option .

According to one embodiment of the invention the user may select a thumbnail view option within the interface to view images stored on the device within a multi image view. The multi image view may be a thumbnail view. illustrates a thumbnail view within the interface of the social networking application on the mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The gallery view displays images . Each of the images has a check mark option to designate the image for sharing and add it to a message. The check mark option appears checked for images that have been designated for sharing and unchecked for images that have not been designated for sharing. In the illustrated example the images and have been designated for sharing and the image has not been designated for sharing. According to an embodiment if the number of images exceeds the available space within the thumbnail view the additional images may be seen on a next page not pictured that the user may access by for example swiping his finger across the screen of the mobile device . The number of images that has been added to the message thus far is displayed within the badge accompanying the message compose icon . In the illustrated example four images have thus far been added to the message. The user may return to the gallery view by selecting a return option .

When the user has finished designating images for sharing the user may select the message compose icon within the gallery view or the thumbnail view and access the message containing the images he has designated for sharing. If the user selects the message compose icon from within the gallery view without having designated any images for sharing the image that is currently displayed may be implicitly designated for sharing and automatically added to the message. If the user selects the message compose icon from within the thumbnail view without having designated any images for sharing the first image in the upper left of the thumbnail view may be implicitly designated for sharing and automatically added to the message.

According to one embodiment of the invention the user may receive a visual indication when an image is designated for sharing. Although the number of images designated for sharing may be displayed within a badge icon accompanying a message compose option the user may not notice an increment in the number within the badge upon designating the image for sharing. Because many mobile devices accept user input via touchscreens it may sometimes be difficult to determine whether the touchscreen has detected a selection or not. This may be the case if the user s finger makes accidental contact with the touchscreen and the touchscreen detects a selection that the user did not intend or if the user intends to make a selection but the touchscreen does not detect the selection because the user s finger did not make close enough contact with the touchscreen. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide the user with a confirmation of his selection of the image in the form of an animation.

The animation indicated by the arrows in may appear in many forms. According to an embodiment the animation may include a miniaturization effect in which a copy of the image designated for sharing is displayed and appears to progressively shrink as it proceeds from a first location on the screen towards a second location on the screen. illustrates a miniaturization effect in a gallery view within an interface of a social networking application on a mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the illustrated example a user designates an image for sharing by selecting a check mark option . Upon the user selecting the check mark option a copy of the image is displayed. The copy is initially centered over the gallery view but gradually shrinks or miniaturizes and proceeds towards a message compose icon . As the animation completes the copy has shrunk to the point that it has disappeared producing a visual effect indicating that the image has been designated for sharing and added to a message. In addition a number within a badge accompanying the message compose icon increments from zero to one. After the animation concludes the image may be displayed in its original form as shown.

Although the preceding examples have been described with reference to mobile devices the embodiments described herein may be implemented on any type of user device . On a device with a touchscreen such as a mobile device or a tablet device a user selection of an option may be received via the user touching a position on the touchscreen corresponding to an icon representing the option that the user intends to select. On a device with an input mechanism such as a pointing device a user selection of an option may be received via the user manipulating the mechanism to move a pointer or other visual element into a position corresponding to an icon representing the option that the user intends to select and pressing a button. A pointing device may refer to a mouse a trackball device or any mechanism for manipulating a pointer on a screen. In addition selection of an option may be triggered by any other form of user input to the user device such as a voice command.

The number of captured images that has been added to the message thus far is displayed within a badge accompanying a message compose icon . In the illustrated example four images have thus far been added to the message. To remove an image from the message the user may browse to a designated image within the gallery view and de select the check mark option . The user may also tag images with people using the Tag button . In image the user has tagged the image with Friend A another user on the social networking system. The user may tag additional users in image using the tagging button . The user may also continue browsing images in the gallery view and tag additional images with additional users using the tagging button . In addition the user may use the tagging button to remove tag data that already exists in image .

According to one embodiment of the invention the user may select a thumbnail view option within the interface to view images stored on the device within a multi image view. illustrates a thumbnail view within the interface of the social networking application on the mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The thumbnail view displays images . Each of the images has a check mark option to designate the image for sharing and to add it to a message. The check mark option appears checked for images that have been designated for sharing and unchecked for images that have not been designated for sharing with a message. In the illustrated example the images and have been designated for sharing and the image has not been designated for sharing. The number of images that has been added to the message thus far is displayed within the badge accompanying the message compose icon . In the illustrated example four images have thus far been added to the message. The user may return to the gallery view by selecting a return option .

When the user has finished designating images for sharing the user may select the message compose icon within the gallery view or the thumbnail view and edit the message containing the images he has designated for sharing. illustrates a message compose view within the interface of the social networking application on the mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the illustrated example the user is composing a message including four images and text within the message compose view . The text Great Pics is associated with the four images . The message includes a tagging display area listing all the people tagged in the message itself or in any of the associated images. In the exemplary embodiment images and each have one unique person tagged in the image. For example shows that Friend A is tagged in image likewise Friend B is tagged in image Friend C is tagged in image and Friend D is tagged in image . Accordingly the tagging display area shows that there are four people tagged Friend A Friend B Friend C and Friend D. In addition the user may tag additional people in the message itself using the Tag button . The user may add more images to the message by selecting an add button . The user may select a Post button and cause the message and the four images to be uploaded for sharing on the social networking system. The user may also select the privacy settings icon to determine the privacy level of the message and the images associated with the message when shared on the social networking system.

In one embodiment the privacy level of the message and the privacy level of all the media associated with the message will always be the same. Therefore if a person on the social networking system has access to the message then he will also have access to all the media associated with the message. Likewise if a person on the social networking system has access to any of the associated media then he will also have access to the message and the remainder of the associated media. illustrates the privacy setting view when the user has selected the privacy setting icon . The privacy levels could include Me Friends Public and Custom. The privacy setting view shows that the privacy level is currently set to the Me setting. The privacy level selected by the user will determine who has access to the message and associated media. The privacy level will also be adjusted based on the people tagged in the message and associated media as illustrated by the following two examples.

In one example the user creates a message with four associated images . The user has not tagged any people in the message or the associated images . If the user selects the Me privacy setting then the message and the associated images will only be shared with the user. If the user selects the Friends privacy setting the message and the associated images will be shared with the friends of the user. If the user selects the Public privacy setting then the message and the associated images will be shared with anyone on the social networking system. Lastly the user can select a Custom privacy setting for the message and the associated images .

In a second example the user creates a message with four associated images . The user tags one person in each image so that four different people are tagged in the four images . The privacy level for the message and associated media will be adjusted according to the people tagged in the message and associated media. If the user sets the privacy level of the message to the Me setting then he and the four tagged people will have access to the message and the associated images . If the user sets the privacy level of the message to the Friends setting then the message and the associated images will be shared with the friends of the user and the friends of all four tagged people as well. In the Friends setting the message and associated images will be accessible to both the friends of the user and the friends of all four tagged people on the social networking system.

Referring again to a message has four associated images and four tagged users in the tagging display area . If the user selected the Me setting for the privacy level of the message then message and images will be shared only with the user and the people tagged in the message and images i.e. the user Friend A Friend B Friend C and Friend D . If the user selected the Friends setting for the privacy level of message then message and images will be shared with the friends of both the user and the tagged people. Therefore in the exemplary embodiment if the user selected the Friends privacy setting then the message and images will be shared with five networks of friends i.e. the friend networks of the user Friend A Friend B Friend C and Friend D .

In another embodiment of the invention the tags in the message and the associated images are completely dynamic with each other. So if the user deletes a tag to a person in the message then the tag for that person is deleted in both the message itself and all the associated images as well. Likewise if the user deletes a tag to a person in one of the associated images then the tagged for that person is deleted in both the message and all the other associated images as well. For example a user creates a message with tags of the same person in two associated images. If the user deletes one tag for the person then the tags for same person in both images are automatically deleted. In other words if one of the tags for a person is removed in the message or associated images then all of the tags for the same person is removed from the message and associated images .

In an alternative embodiment if the user changes the privacy level of the message then the privacy level of the images associated with the message are dynamically changed as well. Likewise if the user changes the privacy level of the any of the associated images then the privacy level of the message and all the other associated images will be changed as well. In one example the user has selected the Me privacy setting for message and associated images . If a tag to a person is removed from message or one of the images then access to message and images will be automatically adjusted to restrict access to the person removed from the tag. In a second example the user has selected the Friends privacy setting for message and associated images . If a tag to a person is removed from message or one of the images then access to the message and images will be automatically adjusted to restrict access to the friends of the person removed from the tag. Therefore the privacy level of the message and associated images will always remain the same even when changes are made to the message or any of the associated images.

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the embodiments described herein. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to high performance I O bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the standard I O bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the standard I O bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by the processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

