---

title: Trailing edge or tip flag antiflow separation
abstract: An airfoil includes a leading edge, a trailing edge region, a suction surface, a pressure surface, a cooling passageway, and a column of flow separators. The suction surface and the pressure surface both extend axially between the leading edge and the trailing edge region, as well as radially from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil to define a central cavity of the airfoil. The cooling passageway is located within the central cavity at the trailing edge region. The column of flow separators is located in the cooling passageway adjacent the trailing edge and includes a first flow separator having a first longitudinal axis and a second flow separator having a second longitudinal axis. The first longitudinal axis is offset at an angle with respect to the first longitudinal axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09328617&OS=09328617&RS=09328617
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09328617
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120320
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by The United States Air Force.

This invention relates generally to turbomachinery and specifically to turbine flow path components for gas turbine engines. In particular the invention relates to cooling techniques for airfoils and other gas turbine engine components exposed to hot working fluid flow including but not limited to rotor blades and stator vane airfoils endwall surfaces including platforms shrouds and compressor and turbine casings combustor liners turbine exhaust assemblies thrust augmentors and exhaust nozzles.

Gas turbine engines are rotary type combustion turbine engines built around a power core made up of a compressor combustor and turbine arranged in flow series with an upstream inlet and downstream exhaust. The compressor section compresses air from the inlet which is mixed with fuel in the combustor and ignited to generate hot combustion gas. The turbine section extracts energy from the expanding combustion gas and drives the compressor section via a common shaft. Expanded combustion products are exhausted downstream and energy is delivered in the form of rotational energy in the shaft reactive thrust from the exhaust or both.

Gas turbine engines provide efficient reliable power for a wide range of applications in aviation transportation and industrial power generation. Small scale gas turbine engines typically utilize a one spool design with co rotating compressor and turbine sections. Larger scale combustion turbines including jet engines and industrial gas turbines IGTs are generally arranged into a number of coaxially nested spools. The spools operate at different pressures temperatures and spool speeds and may rotate in different directions.

Individual compressor and turbine sections in each spool may also be subdivided into a number of stages formed of alternating rows of rotor blade and stator vane airfoils. The airfoils are shaped to turn accelerate and compress the working fluid flow or to generate lift for conversion to rotational energy in the turbine.

Industrial gas turbines often utilize complex nested spool configurations and deliver power via an output shaft coupled to an electrical generator or other load typically using an external gearbox. In combined cycle gas turbines CCGTs a steam turbine or other secondary system is used to extract additional energy from the exhaust improving thermodynamic efficiency. Gas turbine engines are also used in marine and land based applications including naval vessels trains and armored vehicles and in smaller scale applications such as auxiliary power units.

Aviation applications include turbojet turbofan turboprop and turboshaft engine designs. In turbojet engines thrust is generated primarily from the exhaust. Modern fixed wing aircraft generally employ turbofan and turboprop configurations in which the low pressure spool is coupled to a propulsion fan or propeller. Turboshaft engines are employed on rotary wing aircraft including helicopters typically using a reduction gearbox to control blade speed. Unducted open rotor turbofans and ducted propeller engines also known in a variety of single rotor and contra rotating designs with both forward and aft mounting configurations.

Aviation turbines generally utilize two and three spool configurations with a corresponding number of coaxially rotating turbine and compressor sections. In two spool designs the high pressure turbine drives a high pressure compressor forming the high pressure spool or high spool. The low pressure turbine drives the low spool and fan section or a shaft for a rotor or propeller. In three spool engines there is also an intermediate pressure spool. Aviation turbines are also used to power auxiliary devices including electrical generators hydraulic pumps and elements of the environmental control system for example using bleed air from the compressor or via an accessory gearbox.

Additional turbine engine applications and turbine engine types include intercooled regenerated or recuperated and variable cycle gas turbine engines and combinations thereof. In particular these applications include intercooled turbine engines for example with a relatively higher pressure ratio regenerated or recuperated gas turbine engines for example with a relatively lower pressure ratio or for smaller scale applications and variable cycle gas turbine engines for example for operation under a range of flight conditions including subsonic transonic and supersonic speeds. Combined intercooled and regenerated recuperated engines are also known in a variety of spool configurations with traditional and variable cycle modes of operation.

Turbofan engines are commonly divided into high and low bypass configurations. High bypass turbofans generate thrust primarily from the fan which accelerates airflow through a bypass duct oriented around the engine core. This design is common on commercial aircraft and transports where noise and fuel efficiency are primary concerns. The fan rotor may also operate as a first stage compressor or as a pre compressor stage for the low pressure compressor or booster module. Variable area nozzle surfaces can also be deployed to regulate the bypass pressure and improve fan performance for example during takeoff and landing. Advanced turbofan engines may also utilize a geared fan drive mechanism to provide greater speed control reducing noise and increasing engine efficiency or to increase or decrease specific thrust.

Low bypass turbofans produce proportionally more thrust from the exhaust flow generating greater specific thrust for use in high performance applications including supersonic jet aircraft. Low bypass turbofan engines may also include variable area exhaust nozzles and afterburner or augmentor assemblies for flow regulation and short term thrust enhancement. Specialized high speed applications include continuously afterburning engines and hybrid turbojet ramjet configurations.

Across these applications turbine performance depends on the balance between higher pressure ratios and core gas path temperatures which tend to increase efficiency and the related effects on service life and reliability due to increased stress and wear. This balance is particularly relevant to gas turbine engine components in the hot sections of the compressor combustor turbine and exhaust sections where active cooling is required to prevent damage due to high gas path temperatures and pressures.

An airfoil includes a leading edge a trailing edge region a suction surface a pressure surface a cooling passageway and a column of flow separators. The trailing edge region is located axially downstream from the leading edge and terminates in a trailing edge. The suction surface and the pressure surface both extend axially between the leading edge and the trailing edge region as well as radially from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil to define a central cavity of the airfoil. The cooling passageway is located within the central cavity at the trailing edge region. The column of flow separators are located in the cooling passageway adjacent the trailing edge. The column of flow separators includes a first flow separator having a first longitudinal axis and a second flow separator having a second longitudinal axis. The first longitudinal axis is offset at an angle with respect to the first longitudinal axis.

An airfoil for a gas turbine engine includes an airfoil an internal chamber and a column of teardrop features. The airfoil includes a convex surface and a concave surface. Both the convex surface and the concave surface extend radially from a root section to a tip section and axially from a leading edge to a trailing edge section. The trailing edge section terminates in a trailing edge having a cut back on the concave surface. The internal chamber is defined between the convex surface and the concave surface and includes an axially extending cooling air passageway. The cooling air passageway has a plurality of radially spaced cooling air slots terminating in outlets at the trailing edge. The column of teardrop features is located in the cooling air passageway and includes a first teardrop a second teardrop and a third teardrop. The first teardrop is spaced from the tip section by a first cooling air slot. The second teardrop is spaced from the first teardrop by a second cooling air slot. The third teardrop spaced from the second teardrop by a third cooling air slot. The third teardrop and the second teardrop extend parallel to one another and the first teardrop is oriented at an angle relative to the second teardrop.

An airfoil for a gas turbine engine including a leading edge a trailing edge a pressure surface a suction surface a cooling passageway a first flow separator and a second flow separator. The leading edge and the trailing edge both extend from a root section to a tip section. The pressure surface and the suction surface both extend between the leading edge and the trailing edge as well as between the root section and the tip section. The pressure surface and the suction surface define a hollow center. The cooling passageway extends through the hollow center and includes cooling slots terminating with outlets at the trailing edge. The first flow separator is located within the cooling passageway adjacent the trailing edge and spaced from the tip section by a first cooling slot. The first flow separator includes a first rounded upstream end a first outer wall and a first inner wall. The first outer wall and first inner wall converge at a first downstream end and a first longitudinal axis extends through the first flow separator from the first rounded upstream end to the first downstream end. The second flow separator is spaced from the first flow separator by a second cooling slot. The second flow separator includes a second rounded upstream end a second outer wall and a second inner wall. The second outer wall and second inner wall converge at a second downstream end and a second longitudinal axis extends through the second flow separator from the second rounded upstream end to the second downstream end. The first longitudinal axis is angled with respect to the second longitudinal axis.

In the turbofan configuration of propulsion fan is positioned in bypass duct which is coaxially oriented about the engine core along centerline or turbine axis C. An open rotor propulsion stage may also provided with turbine engine operating as a turboprop or unducted turbofan engine. Alternatively fan rotor and bypass duct may be absent with turbine engine configured as a turbojet or turboshaft engine or an industrial gas turbine.

For improved service life and reliability components of gas turbine engine are provided with an improved cooling configuration as described below. Suitable components for the cooling configuration include rotor airfoils stator airfoils and other gas turbine engine components exposed to hot gas flow including but not limited to platforms shrouds casings and other endwall surfaces in hot sections of compressor and turbine and liners nozzles afterburners augmentors and other gas wall components in combustor and exhaust section .

In the two spool high bypass configuration of compressor section includes low pressure compressor LPC and high pressure compressor HPC and turbine section includes high pressure turbine HPT and low pressure turbine LPT . Low pressure compressor is rotationally coupled to low pressure turbine via low pressure LP shaft forming the LP spool or low spool. High pressure compressor is rotationally coupled to high pressure turbine via high pressure HP shaft forming the HP spool or high spool.

Flow F at inlet divides into primary core flow Fand secondary bypass flow Fdownstream of fan rotor . Fan rotor accelerates secondary flow Fthrough bypass duct with fan exit guide vanes FEGVs to reduce swirl and improve thrust performance. In some designs structural guide vanes SGVs are used providing combined flow turning and load bearing capabilities.

Primary flow Fis compressed in low pressure compressor and high pressure compressor then mixed with fuel in combustor and ignited to generate hot combustion gas. The combustion gas expands to provide rotational energy in high pressure turbine and low pressure turbine driving high pressure compressor and low pressure compressor respectively. Expanded combustion gases exit through exhaust section or exhaust nozzle which can be shaped or actuated to regulate the exhaust flow and improve thrust performance.

Low pressure shaft and high pressure shaft are mounted coaxially about centerline C and rotate at different speeds. Fan rotor or other propulsion stage is rotationally coupled to low pressure shaft . In advanced designs fan drive gear system is provided for additional fan speed control improving thrust performance and efficiency with reduced noise output.

Fan rotor may also function as a first stage compressor for gas turbine engine and LPC may be configured as an intermediate compressor or booster. Alternatively propulsion stage has an open rotor design or is absent as described above. Gas turbine engine thus encompasses a wide range of different shaft spool and turbine engine configurations including one two and three spool turboprop and high or low bypass turbofan engines turboshaft engines turbojet engines and multi spool industrial gas turbines.

In each of these applications turbine efficiency and performance depend on the overall pressure ratio defined by the total pressure at inlet as compared to the exit pressure of compressor section for example at the outlet of high pressure compressor entering combustor . Higher pressure ratios however also result in greater gas path temperatures increasing the cooling loads on rotor airfoils stator airfoils and other components of gas turbine engine . To reduce operating temperatures increase service life and maintain engine efficiency these components are provided with improved cooling configurations as described below. Suitable components include but not limited to cooled gas turbine engine components in compressor sections and combustor turbine sections and and exhaust section of gas turbine engine .

Pressure and suction surfaces and form the major opposing surfaces or walls of airfoil extending axially between leading edge and trailing edge and radially from root section adjacent inner diameter ID platform to tip section opposite ID platform . In some designs tip section is shrouded.

Cooling holes or outlets are provided on one or more surfaces of airfoil for example along leading edge trailing edge pressure or concave surface or suction or convex surface or a combination thereof. Cooling holes or passages may also be provided on the endwall surfaces of airfoil for example along ID platform or on a shroud or engine casing adjacent tip section .

Cooling holes or outlets are provided along one or more surfaces of airfoil for example leading or trailing edge or pressure concave or suction convex surface or or a combination thereof. Cooling holes or passages may also be provided on the endwall surfaces of airfoil for example along ID platform and OD platform .

Rotor airfoils and stator airfoils are formed of high strength heat resistant materials such as high temperature alloys and superalloys and are provided with thermal and erosion resistant coatings. Airfoils and are also provided with internal cooling passages and cooling holes to reduce thermal fatigue and wear and to prevent melting when exposed to hot gas flow in the higher temperature regions of a gas turbine engine or other turbomachine. Cooling holes deliver cooling fluid e.g. steam or air from a compressor through the outer walls and platform structures of airfoils and creating a thin layer or film of cooling fluid to protect the outer gas path surfaces from high temperature flow.

While surface cooling extends service life and increases reliability injecting cooling fluid into the gas path also reduces engine efficiency and the cost in efficiency increases with the required cooling flow. Cooling holes are thus provided with improved metering and inlet geometry to reduce jets and blow off and improved diffusion and exit geometry to reduce flow separation and corner effects. Cooling holes reduce flow requirements and improve the spread of cooling fluid across the hot outer surfaces of airfoils and and other gas turbine engine components so that less flow is needed for cooling and efficiency is maintained or increased.

Rotor blade is similar to rotor airfoil described above with reference to . Rotor blade extends axially from leading edge to trailing edge with trailing edge located downstream of leading edge . Pressure surface and suction surface form the major opposing surfaces or walls of rotor blade . Pressure surface and suction surface both extend axially between leading edge and trailing edge and radially from root section to tip section . A column of cooling outlets extend radially from root section to tip section at trailing edge of rotor blade . Additional cooling outlets are also possible on rotor blade e.g. see cooling outlets on airfoil of .

Pressure surface and suction surface join leading edge to trailing edge and define a hollow central cavity of rotor blade . A plurality of internal walls extend transversely across cavity from pressure surface to suction surface and connect pressure surface to suction surface . Internal walls divide cavity into a plurality of cooling passageways that extend through a majority of rotor blade . Cooling passageways are spaced axially from a location near leading edge through a mid chord region to trailing edge region . Cooling passages can be straight or serpentine and can take a plurality of different shapes. As described with reference to cooling fluid e.g. compressor air flows radially through cooling passageways to cool rotor blade .

Trailing edge region has its own cooling scheme including cooling chamber . Cooling chamber is an open area of central cavity located in trailing edge region of rotor blade . Cooling chamber is bounded radially by root section and tip section bounded axially by cooling passageway and trailing edge and bounded transversely by pressure surface and suction surface . Cut back is located at trailing edge of rotor blade . Cut back is formed by terminating pressure surface prior to terminating suction surface such that suction surface extends axially beyond pressure surface at trailing edge . However an alternate embodiment utilizing this invention is a center discharge trailing edge where the pressure side surface terminates at the same location as suction side surface .

Extending transversely across cooling chamber is a plurality of pedestals . Pedestals extend from attachments to internal walls of pressure surface and suction surface . Similarly flow dividers extend transversely across cooling chamber between attachments to internal walls of pressure surface and suction surface . Flow dividers extend axially across cut back region . While flow dividers are shown and described with reference to rotor blade airfoil configuration they are equally applicable to a stator vane airfoil configuration e.g. stator vane shown in . The structure and function of flow dividers is described in detail below with reference to .

As described above with reference to trailing edge is the most axially downstream aspect of rotor blade . As shown in tip has a flare or angled corner wall that begins upstream of cutback and terminates at trailing edge . Trailing edge is the terminal portion of trailing edge section . Cooling chamber is a generally open or hollow area defined within trailing edge region that terminates with outlets at trailing edge . Cut back extends radially across rotor blade a short distance upstream of trailing edge . Located within cooling chamber are pedestals and flow separators . Pedestals are cylindrical in shape and have circular cross sections while flow dividers are teardrop shaped in cross section.

Pedestals are arranged into radial columns first column and second column . Flow separators are arranged into radial third column . First column second column and third column all extend substantially parallel to one another and serially effect cooling fluid flow passing axially through cooling chamber . First column is the upstream most column shown. Second column is located between and spaced a short distance from first column and third column . Third column is the downstream most column is located between second column and trailing edge and is spaced a short distance from second column .

First column and second column are more or less identical in that they both include the pedestals with uniform sizing and spacing. Pedestals of second column are offset from pedestals of first column so that a space between pedestals of second column is axially aligned with a pedestal of first column and vice versa. Third column includes flow separators A C of uniform size and axially spaced by cooling channels or slots A C . Flow separators of third column are offset from pedestals of second column so that a space between pedestals of second column is axially aligned with a flow separator of third column and vice versa.

Pedestals add convective heat transfer surface area to trailing edge region while partially blocking cooling fluid flow. Flow separators keep cooling fluid flow separated for ejection at trailing edge . The cooling fluid travels axially across cooling chamber through spaces or slots between pedestals . Cooling fluid encounters first column having pedestals and then second column having pedestals . Cooling fluid snakes around upstream pedestals which partially block fluid flow. Cooling fluid then encounters third column having flow separators A C and passes around flow separators A C through slots A C. From slots A C cooling fluid is ejected at outlets radially spaced along trailing edge between flow separators A C.

Each flow separator A C has the structure described for flow separator shown in . Upstream end is rounded semi circular in cross section and has a diameter. Downstream end is pointed triangular in cross section and has an angle. The axial length of flow separator can be divided into an upstream metering portion having a constant thickness and a downstream diffusion portion having decreasing thickness. Inner diameter or ID wall extends between metering section and downstream end . Outer diameter or OD wall extends between metering section and downstream end . Inner wall and outer wall begin to converge at the location where metering portion ends and diffusion portion begins. Inner wall and outer wall converge until they meet at downstream end . The angle at which inner wall or outer wall make with teardrop centerline is referred to as a taper angle. Accordingly each inner wall and each outer wall has a taper angle. For two adjacent flow separators e.g. B and C inner wall of one flow separator e.g. B faces outer wall of the next flow separator C . The taper angle for inner wall can be summed with the taper angle of the adjacent outer wall to calculate a diffusion angle for a slot e.g. C located between the two adjacent flow separators B and C .

Tip corner forms taper angle A with a line drawn parallel to a center line of an engine e.g. CL in and rotational axis of rotor blade . Taper angle A is between about 15 25 degrees. In the depicted embodiment taper angle A is about 20 degrees.

First flow separator A is angled toward tip and is not parallel with flow separators B and C. More specifically first flow separator A is skewed by offset angle B where angle B is measured between centerline A of teardrop A and centerline B of teardrop B. Offset angle B is between about 1 15 degrees. In the depicted embodiment offset angle B is 6 degrees. First cooling slot A is bounded by tip corner and an outer wall i.e. of first flow separator A. First cooling slot A has a diffusion angle C of less than 20 degrees. In the depicted embodiment first cooling slot A has a diffusion angle of 18 degrees.

Second cooling slot B is bounded by inner wall i.e. of first flow separator A and outer wall i.e. of second flow separator B. Inner wall i.e. of first flow separator A and outer wall i.e. of second flow separator B form diffusion angle D. Second cooling slot B has a diffusion angle D between about 1 15 degrees. In the depicted embodiment second cooling slot B has a diffusion angle of 14 degrees.

Third cooling slot C is bounded by inner wall i.e. of second flow separator B and outer wall i.e. of third flow separator C. Inner wall i.e. of second flow separator B and outer wall i.e. of third flow separator C form diffusion angle E. Third cooling slot C has a diffusion angle E between about 2 10 degrees. In the depicted embodiment third cooling slot C has a diffusion angle of 8 degrees.

The diffusion angle of first cooling slot A angle C is greater than the diffusion angle of second cooling slot B angle D . The diffusion angle of second cooling slot B angle D is greater than the diffusion angle of third cooling slot C angle E .

Second flow separator B and third flow separator C are parallel to one another. In other words longitudinal axis i.e. of second flow separator B is parallel to a longitudinal axis i.e. of third flow separator C both of which are parallel to the center line of an engine i.e. CL in and rotational axis of rotor blade . First flow separator A is not parallel to any of second flow separator B third flow separator C or the center line of an engine i.e. CL in and rotational axis of rotor blade . Rather first flow separator A is offset from this parallel orientation.

Blades vanes and other turbine components are exposed to high temperatures. For example blade tips commonly experience tip oxidation or burn through particularly towards the trailing edge tip. When flow separators are all arranged parallel to one another at the trailing edge and a large tip taper angle A exists a separated region of cooling flow can be observed. This separation can form at an inner diameter side of cooling slots and reduces cooling effectiveness while increasing metal temperatures. In first flow separator A is skewed from parallel so that cooling fluid forms better attachment at tip corner resulting in improved heat transfer. Skewing first flow separator A counter clockwise helps reduce flow separation enables slots to properly fill with minimal flow separation and produces a more uniform flow stream coming out of the slot. Ultimately blade life would improve thereby reducing program life cycle costs in the long term while helping in performance retention as tip wear is minimized.

The gas turbine engine components gas path walls and cooling passages described herein can thus be manufactured using one or more of a variety of different processes. These techniques provide each cooling hole and cooling passage with its own particular configuration and features including but not limited to inlet metering transition diffusion outlet upstream wall downstream wall lateral wall longitudinal lobe and downstream edge features as described above. In some cases multiple techniques can be combined to improve overall cooling performance or reproducibility or to reduce manufacturing costs.

While the invention is described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In addition different modifications may be made to adapt the teachings of the invention to particular situations or materials without departing from the essential scope thereof. The invention is thus not limited to the particular examples disclosed herein but includes all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

An airfoil includes a leading edge a trailing edge region a suction surface a pressure surface a cooling passageway and a column of flow separators. The trailing edge region is located axially downstream from the leading edge and terminates in a trailing edge. The suction surface and the pressure surface both extend axially between the leading edge and the trailing edge region as well as radially from a root section of the airfoil to a tip section of the airfoil to define a central cavity of the airfoil. The cooling passageway is located within the central cavity at the trailing edge region. The column of flow separators are located in the cooling passageway adjacent the trailing edge. The column of flow separators includes a first flow separator having a first longitudinal axis and a second flow separator having a second longitudinal axis. The first longitudinal axis is offset at an angle with respect to the first longitudinal axis.

The airfoil of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

a first cooling slot can be located between the first flow separator and the tip section wherein the first cooling slot has a diffusion angle less than 20 degrees 

a second cooling slot can be located between the second flow separator and the first flow separator wherein the second cooling slot has a diffusion angle less than 15 degrees 

An airfoil for a gas turbine engine includes an airfoil an internal chamber and a column of teardrop features. The airfoil includes a convex surface and a concave surface. Both the convex surface and the concave surface extend radially from a root section to a tip section and axially from a leading edge to a trailing edge section. The trailing edge section terminates in a trailing edge having a cut back on the concave surface. The internal chamber is defined between the convex surface and the concave surface and includes an axially extending cooling air passageway. The cooling air passageway has a plurality of radially spaced cooling air slots terminating in outlets at the trailing edge. The column of teardrop features is located in the cooling air passageway and includes a first teardrop a second teardrop and a third teardrop. The first teardrop is spaced from the tip section by a first cooling air slot. The second teardrop is spaced from the first teardrop by a second cooling air slot. The third teardrop spaced from the second teardrop by a third cooling air slot. The third teardrop and the second teardrop extend parallel to one another and the first teardrop is oriented at an angle relative to the second teardrop.

The airfoil of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

A first diffusion angle of the first slot can be greater than a second diffusion angle of the second slot 

the second diffusion angle of the second slot can be greater than a third diffusion angle of the third slot 

at least one column of cylindrical pedestals can be located within the cooling passageway upstream of the column of teardrop features 

An airfoil for a gas turbine engine including a leading edge a trailing edge a pressure surface a suction surface a cooling passageway a first flow separator and a second flow separator. The leading edge and the trailing edge both extend from a root section to a tip section. The pressure surface and the suction surface both extend between the leading edge and the trailing edge as well as between the root section and the tip section. The pressure surface and the suction surface define a hollow center. The cooling passageway extends through the hollow center and includes cooling slots terminating with outlets at the trailing edge. The first flow separator is located within the cooling passageway adjacent the trailing edge and spaced from the tip section by a first cooling slot. The first flow separator includes a first rounded upstream end a first outer wall and a first inner wall. The first outer wall and first inner wall converge at a first downstream end and a first longitudinal axis extends through the first flow separator from the first rounded upstream end to the first downstream end. The second flow separator is spaced from the first flow separator by a second cooling slot. The second flow separator includes a second rounded upstream end a second outer wall and a second inner wall. The second outer wall and second inner wall converge at a second downstream end and a second longitudinal axis extends through the second flow separator from the second rounded upstream end to the second downstream end. The first longitudinal axis is angled with respect to the second longitudinal axis.

The airfoil of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

a third flow separator can be spaced from the second flow separator by a third cooling slot the third flow separator including a third rounded upstream end a third outer wall and a third inner wall the third outer wall and third inner wall converging at a third downstream end a third longitudinal axis extending through the third flow separator from the third rounded upstream end to the third downstream end wherein the third longitudinal axis is parallel to the second longitudinal axis 

