---

title: Real-time monitoring of plutonium content in uranium-plutonium alloys
abstract: A method and device for the real-time, in-situ monitoring of Plutonium content in U—Pu Alloys comprising providing a crucible. The crucible has an interior non-reactive to a metallic U—Pu alloy within said interior of said crucible. The U—Pu alloy comprises metallic uranium and plutonium. The U—Pu alloy is heated to a liquid in an inert or reducing atmosphere. The heated U—Pu alloy is then cooled to a solid in an inert or reducing atmosphere. As the U—Pu alloy is cooled, the temperature of the U—Pu alloy is monitored. A solidification temperature signature is determined from the monitored temperature of the U—Pu alloy during the step of cooling. The amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U—Pu alloy is then determined from the determined solidification temperature signature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09121807&OS=09121807&RS=09121807
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09121807
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Battelle Energy Alliance.

The present invention relates to the in situ monitoring of Uranium and Plutonium content of an alloy preferably a nuclear fuel during processing or reprocessing.

As new methods of processing nuclear fuel or reprocessing spent nuclear fuel are researched and eventually deployed new methods for monitoring the fuel composition during a particular process are required for safety and to reduce proliferation risks. For example during the reprocessing of spent fuel using a pyroprocessing technology whereby the Pu in the spent fuel is collected together with some U as ingots of Uranium Plutonium U Pu alloy. The Pu content within the alloy may vary over a wide range depending on process conditions. Nevertheless the International Atomic Energy Agency IAEA and other regulating entities need to verify the amount of Uranium and Plutonium precisely and in a timely manner. In addition the real time information of Pu content in the U Pu alloy ingots is important for special nuclear material control and accountability. Current methods require sample extraction followed by expensive and time consuming analysis which are plagued by sampling and analytical errors.

A method and device for the real time in situ monitoring of Plutonium content in U Pu Alloys comprising providing a crucible. The crucible has an interior non reactive to a metallic U Pu alloy within said interior of said crucible. The U Pu alloy comprises metallic uranium and plutonium. The U Pu alloy is heated to a liquid in an inert or reducing atmosphere. The heated U Pu alloy is then cooled to a solid in an inert or reducing atmosphere. As the U Pu alloy is cooled the temperature of the U Pu alloy is monitored. A solidification temperature signature is determined from the monitored temperature of the U Pu alloy during the step of cooling. The amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U Pu alloy is then determined from the determined solidification temperature signature.

The crucible is any container having a melting point greater than the melting point of the U Pu alloy. The crucible has an interior made of materials that are non reactive to the metallic U Pu alloy. A material non reactive to the U Pu alloy is any material that does not chemically electrochemically or in any way which would degrade change or reduce the amount of the material of the crucible. Preferably the crucible is made of or has an interior surface comprising yttria. Preferably the crucible comprises a configuration of one or more thermocouples that allows for continuous monitoring of temperature during the heating and cooling steps on the U Pu alloy. The thermocouples are positioned to detect changes in alloy phases by either placement of the thermocouples in the melt or near the melt on the crucible. If placement of the thermocouples is on the crucible then a correlation with the melt thermocouples is inferred preferably accounting for any thermal losses and delays in heat transfer.

The U Pu alloy comprises metallic uranium and plutonium but may contain other elements for example further comprising various amounts of Am Np Cm or combinations thereof as well as other elements as impurities. The U Pu alloy forms a continuous liquid solid phase. The U Pu alloy preferably consists essentially of Pu and U whereby the amount of impurities does not significantly alter the thermal characteristic of the alloy. In one embodiment various amounts of Am Np and Cm are present which may add an amount of uncertainty to the Pu and U measurements.

The steps of heating and cooling are performed in an inert or reducing atmosphere to prevent the oxidation of the U Pu Alloy. For example if the atmosphere was air the U Pu Alloy would be oxidized to uranium oxide and plutonium oxide which would not only substantially increase the melting temperature but would also change the composite melting point of the molten material. An inert atmosphere is any atmosphere which will not oxidize or reduce the U Pu alloy within the normal operating temperatures of the U Pu alloy. The normal operating temperatures of the U Pu alloy are the various temperatures that the U Pu alloy are normally exposed to within the crucible preferably at least the melting and solidification temperatures of the U Pu alloy more preferably at least the melting and solidification temperatures of the U Pu alloy plus or minus 50 degrees Celsius.

The U Pu alloy is heated to a liquid in an inert or reducing atmosphere. As the exact melting point of the U Pu alloy is not known the alloy is preferably heated to a temperature at least 50 degrees Celsius greater than the melting point of pure uranium 1135 C. . The crucible is heated using one or more heat sources preferably Joule heating one or more burners or a combination thereof. The heat sources are thermally connected to the U Pu alloy preferably through the crucible. Thermally connected means any connection which is capable of transferring heat preferably a metal. In a preferred embodiment one or more heat sources are placed around the crucible which is thermally conductive.

The U Pu alloy is cooled to a solid. Preferably the U Pu alloy is cooled by at least a partial removal from one or more heat sources or an application of one or more cooling sources. A cooling source is any means of cooling the U Pu alloy preferably one or more heat exchangers heat pump or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the cooling source is the natural dissipation of heat from the system while the heat sources are disabled. The cooling sources are thermally connected to the U Pu alloy preferably through the crucible. Thermally connected means any connection which is capable of transferring heat preferably a metal. In a preferred embodiment one or more cooling sources are placed around the crucible which is thermally conductive.

During the step of cooling the heated U Pu alloy to a solid the temperature of the U Pu alloy is monitored. Preferably the temperature of the U Pu alloy is measured directly using one or more temperature sensors preferably one or more thermocouples. Preferably one or more temperature sensors are used preferably comprising one or more thermocouples. In other embodiments one or more lasers ultrasound detectors thermometers or other temperature measurements devices are employed to monitor the temperature of the U Pu alloy directly or indirectly. In one embedment one or more heat conductors are used to transfer heat to the one or more temperature sensor thereby monitoring the temperature indirectly. In this embodiment thermal losses between the U Pu alloy and the temperature sensors are accounted for in the subsequent calculations. This embodiment may be preferred depending on the heat of the U Pu alloy and the maximum temperature of the temperate sensor.

As shown in the monitoring of the U Pu Alloy occurs during the cooling of the U Pu alloy. Although the monitoring of the temperature may be preferred in various embodiments for reasons other than the determination of the amount of U and Pu in the U Pu alloy it is not necessary for the determination of the amount of U and Pu in the U Pu alloy.

A solidification temperature signature is determined from the temperature of the U Pu alloy during said step of cooling. The temperature signature is data relating to the temperature of the U Pu alloy over time recorded during at least one cooling step. Preferably a plurality of the heating and cooling steps is performed to generate data including a plurality of cooling to solidification cycles thereby increasing accuracy.

Once the solidification temperature is determined the amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U Pu alloy is determined from the determined solidification temperature signature. As the U Pu alloy will produce heat in its transition from a liquid to solid phases the solidification signature can be used to determine the concentration of U and the concentration of Pu.

In one embodiment a table of solidification temperatures and corresponding amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium is used. In this embodiment the amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium that are in the U Pu alloy are determined using known analysis techniques preferably inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS .

In a preferred embodiment one or more inflections or plateaus in the solidification signature produced by heat given off by the liquid to solid phase transition differing from the normal heat dissipation of the system is used to determine the amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U Pu alloy. Preferably in this embodiment the first derivative of the temperature versus time of the U Pu alloy during cooling is used to determine the inflection point thereby determining the solidification temperature. Preferably the solidification temperature is the temperature at which the first derivative of the temperature of the U Pu alloy shows significant deviations more preferably the temperature at which the first derivative is closest to zero. It should be noted that depending on the frequency of data the first derivative may not actually hit zero.

Once the solidification temperature is determined the U Pu phase diagram is used to determine the amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U Pu alloy. Preferably the phase diagrams are produced experimentally or from existing sources such as from ASM International for example Pu U phase Diagram 1994 Okamoto Y. ASM International Diagram 905419 Am Pu U Phase Diagram 1993 Ogawa T. ASM International 2006 Diagram 1200678 hereby fully incorporated by reference. Okamoto et al. Investigation of the Pu U Phase Diagram J. Alloy Comp. 213 214 1994 372 describes an investigation of the Pu U phase diagram as well as a phase diagram generation technique that could be used for other alloys hereby fully incorporated by reference.

Preferably any calculations lookups or other steps necessary to determine the amount of Uranium and the amount of Plutonium in the U Pu alloy is performed by a control system without user calculation. In this embodiment the control system comprises a computer ASIC application specific integrated circuit microcontroller or other electronic device. In a preferred embodiment the control system is a ATMEGA128 microcontroller as sold by ATMEL.

The crucible is preferably in inert or reducing atmosphere to prevent the oxidation of the U Pu Alloy. In one embodiment the crucible is sealed in another container that provides an inert or a reducing atmosphere. In an alternate embodiment the crucible is sealed with one or more seals and filled with inert or a reducing gas.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

