---

title: Jellyfish-inspired tilt sensor and artificial mesoglea
abstract: Components of an unmanned undersea vehicle are inspired by jellyfish that uses its flexible body and tilt sensing to achieve efficient swimming and turning. A tilt sensor, based on a statocyst, has a metal ball in a chamber lined with resistors. The tilt is sensed in accordance with which resistors the ball contacts. A composition of polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel with ferritin particles dispersed therein mimics the qualities of a jellyfish's mesoglea.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146104&OS=09146104&RS=09146104
owner: Virgina Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc.
number: 09146104
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00014 08 1 0654 awarded by Office of Naval Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to a tilt sensor and a material and more specifically to such a tilt sensor and viscoelastic material that offer improvements inspired by the tilt sensor and mesoglea of a jellyfish.

Many tilt sensors have been developed over the years using a variety of macro and micro patterning methods combined with top down assembly. Recently micro electromechanical systems MEMS technology has been applied towards fabrication of tilt sensors that have opened the pathway for many different inclinometer technologies. Constandinou and Georgiou 2008 demonstrated a sensor composed of one stationary and one moving part. The moving semicircular mass projects a shadow onto an array of optical sensors. The sensor had a five degree resolution and up to three hundred total degrees of tilt. Jung et al. 2007 described an electrolytic version with a MEMS micromachined cavity and a moving electrolyte. The degree of tilt determined how much of the solution contacts the electrodes producing a varying electrical signal. Tang et al. 2009 produced a structure that responds directly to gravity through the bending of extremely small piezoelectric beams. The sensor was able to achieve 0.025 mV per degree sensitivity. A novel device has been proposed that had a single MEMS heater with a silicon bridge to sense the temperature by resistance changes on either side Billat et al. 2002 . Due to free convective flow when the tilt of the sensor changes so does the temperature felt by each silicon bridge thermometer Billat et al. 2002 . However all those artificial technologies ignore the fact that nature has already developed elegant tilt sensors which are used daily by aquatic animals.

In a separate field of endeavor bio inspired materials and systems research have received significant attention in the last decade. Some examples that demonstrate desired functions and structures are self cleaning Bhushan et al. 2008 solar energy harvesting by replicating photosynthesis Gust et al. 2001 strong adhesives Lee et al. 2007 and silk including technology for fiber spinning Lazaris et al. 2002 rapid locomotion in hard to reach places Menciassi and Dario 2003 hard ceramics for armors Yasrebi et al. 1990 and self healing characteristics of the bones and tissue Trask et al. 2007 . Those examples reflect upon the possibilities of achieving improved engineering functions by mimicking fundamental mechanisms adopted by nature. Jellyfish are attractive candidates for developing unmanned undersea vehicles UUV s due to attributes such as their ability to consume little energy owing to a lower metabolic rate than other marine species Seibel and Drazen 2007 survivability in varying water conditions and possession of adequate morphology for carrying payload such as large bell and trailing tentacles and oral arms. Jellyfish inhabit every major oceanic area of the world Cook 2010 and are capable of withstanding a wide range of temperatures and salinities Arai 1997 . Most species are found in shallow coastal waters but some have been found in depths of 7 000 meters Kramp 1959 . Furthermore jellyfish encompass a wide variety of sizes ranging from a few millimeters to over 2 meters in diameter Omori and Kitamura 2004 as well as display a multitude of shapes and colors. They have the ability to move vertically but depend mainly upon ocean currents for horizontal movement Cook 2010 . Jellyfish Cnidarians have no central nervous system CNS and only use a diffused nerve net to control movement. As such it is important for them to have sensory organs that can provide information to the nerve net and affect behaviors such as feeding mating and predator evasion. For instance most jellyfish have simple light sensors called ocelli. When that sensor sees changes in light intensity the nerve net is programmed to assume that a predator has just passed over the jellyfish initiating an escape mechanism. Similarly it possesses an inclinometer the statocyst organ which can detect pitch or roll. In the center of a ring of cells a statolith mineralized ball pushes against small sensing hairs called setae. That pressure creates a feedback for change in orientation and helps in maintaining balance Arai 1997 . The statocyst feeds information into the outer nerve ring which is responsible for collecting sensory data. The inner nerve ring then incorporates sensory input and produces asymmetric contractions of the subumbrellar swimming muscles allowing the animal to turn. Pacemakers generate swimming gates such as swimming vertically turning and hovering. Horridge Horridge 1969 has pointed out that it is important for the gravity sensing organ to move in conjunction with the vibration sensory mechanism to localize the information. In medusae and other lower invertebrates the sensory role is served by motile or non motile cilia which act as vibration receptors and their response in coupled with the sense of direction of gravity through statocyst.

Sensitivity experiments on the statocysts of medusae are limited and not quantitative in nature. However an estimation of the sensitivity can be made from the experiments conducted on the other aquatic invertebrates. Williamson Williamson 1988 has conducted experiments on the vibration sensitivity in the statocyst of the northern octopus . The results showed that octopus statocyst has vibration sensitivity corresponding to particle displacement of 0.12 m. That was found to compare well with sensitivity of hair sensors in crayfish 0.6 m and 0.1 m Williamson 1988 Tautz and Sandeman 1980 Wiese 1976 . Further Williamson showed that exhibited peak sensitivity in the frequency range of 70 100 Hz and the most sensitive unit responded at a stimulus velocity of 60 m s. Those results do not provide the angular sensitivity but they do provide us some comparative linear sensitivity that can be used as a metric in the design of artificial sensitivity.

In another separate field of endeavor unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs have long been in use but increasingly there has been impetus on developing biomimetic robots that can surpass the performance and functions of traditional vehicles. For example a robotic jellyfish inspired by the species was recently developed and characterized by our group Villanueva et al. . Many of the soft robots including the jellyfish robot being developed to date utilize standard engineering materials such as room temperature vulcanization RTV silicone to develop the body of the UUVs. RTV silicone is a good choice due to low cost and the easy availability of a wide range of silicones. However RTV silicones are not neutrally buoyant are hydrophobic and are too stiff to appropriately mimic the dynamic elastic properties of biological materials. There is a critical need for creating an artificial gel that can mimic the mechanical characteristics of soft flexible material such as jellyfish mesoglea. Deployment of biomimetic mesoglea instead of RTV silicone for a robot body may significantly reduce the actuating force and therefore power requirement of the vehicle. Multiple types of mesoglea exist within a given natural species bell and joint subumbrellar and exumbrellar.

Mesoglea makes up a majority of jellyfish volume Arai 1997 . It also provides structural support and helps in tailoring the kinematics of the animal. Mesoglea serves as the main locomotor surface such as the wing skin of a bat or the mantle of a squid. In achieving that additional functionality it is evident that the mechanical properties of mesoglea should play a special role. Thus we have been putting efforts towards understanding the dual role of mesoglea serving as both the structural and locomotor element. Mesoglea is a jelly like substance comprising long 20 50 nm diameter collagen fibers and a network of proteins and polysaccharides which span the space between the collagen fibers Wang et al. 2011 . It is found in the taxa Cnidaria and Ctenophora but for the purposes of the present invention we are primarily concerned with the jellyfish represented in the classes Hydrozoa Scyphozoa Cubozoa and Staurozoa. The collagen fibers form a network which varies from one species to another. Chapman 1953 has suggested that that network in is dense and random. It has interlinks with some cells interspersed in the mesoglea between the fibers. The collagen fibers for are sparse without many interlinks and still random. species have relatively oriented and branched fibers. Collagen fibers provide the mesoglea with a large fraction of its elasticity and their arrangement determines the stiffness and other material properties of different parts of the jellyfish bell. The presence of a varying collagen fiber network is the reason for jellyfish mesoglea exhibiting quite different elastic properties. Collagen fibers are made of chains of proteins. Polysaccharides and proteins act as food storage which is consumed by jellyfish during starvation. Mesoglea also has mucoprotein which takes part in digestion of food. Jellyfish mesoglea can be transparent highly hydrophilic neutrally buoyant and possess low modulus while retaining durability Arai 1997 . Those properties are partly due to the fact that mesoglea has such high water content more than 96 Lowndes 1942 .

The mechanical properties of mesoglea have scarcely been investigated. An attempt was made by Alexander 1964 who studied viscoelastic properties of mesoglea and concluded that jellyfish Scyphozoa and mesoglea was softer than that of previously studied sea anemones Anthozoa . Under deformation tests mesoglea showed large instantaneous strain and then a slow extension for long times 10 hr before reaching a near saturated state. That is in sharp contrast to the body wall of sea anemones which have a very narrow distribution of retardation times. Gladfelter 1972 has investigated the bell mesoglea of as a rigid gel and the joint mesoglea as a much softer deformable gel that does not have viscoelastic properties. Demont and Gosline 1998 found that intact jellyfish bell of the species has modulus between 400 and 1000 Pa. Megill 2005 found the stiffness of bell mesoglea to be 350 Pa in compression while the softer joint mesoglea had stiffness of 50 Pa. Wang et al. 2011 investigated the mechanical properties of the jellyfish but did not report a single stiffness value. Many of those prior studies indicate that the modulus of mesoglea varies over a wide range of magnitude. That could be associated with the measurement technique and also with the method of sample preparation. It is well known that rapid changes in the properties of mesoglea occur as a function of time after it has been detached from the real animal.

In yet another separate field of endeavor much work has been done on synthetic hydrogels for a variety of purposes as diverse as tissue engineering Shin 2008 superabsorbent polymers Hermansson 2010 and gold ion reclamation into nanoparticles Kumar 2005 . That class of material is highly tunable by way of nanofillers and can be synthesized in many ways including freeze thaw radiation and chemical cross linking agents. Hydrogels are an aqueous gel network composed typically of a hydrophilic polymer cross linked either by chemical bonds or cohesion forces. When placed in water hydrogels are able to swell rapidly and retain large volumes of water without dissolving. Despite high water contents hydrogels are elastic solids that exhibit memory a state to which the system can return after being deformed Park et al. 1993 . Conventional hydrogels are usually mechanically weak due to their lack of ordered structure at the molecular level Miyazaki et al. 2002 . However recently there has been increasing interest in hydrogels with high mechanical strength and novel microstructures have been developed to achieve that aspect Kopecek et al. 1986 . Wang et al. 2011 have developed hybrid hydrogels based upon the mesoglea structure of the jellyfish but with the intent of achieving higher mechanical strength than other synthetic hydrogels.

The following provide background information related to the artificial mesoglea Alexander R M 1964 Visco elastic properties of the mesoglea of jellyfish. 41 363 369

It is another object of the invention to design a nanocomposite hydrogel that mimics the mechanical properties of the natural bell mesoglea.

To achieve the above and other objects the present invention is directed to a tilt sensor that mimics the operation of a natural statolith. A conductive ball or other object is disposed in a cavity surrounded by resistors or other electrical elements such as capacitors or resonators. The ball contacts a certain one or ones of the electrical element on tilting to create a connection that can be correlated with the magnitude of tilt. In a preferred embodiment the connection is between a base plate and one or more resistors or other electrical elements.

The present invention is further directed to an artificial mesoglea. Nanofiller composites were found to be a viable option in increasing the strength due to their sustainability. Ferritin was chosen as the candidate for nanofiller composite because of its structural uniformity on the nanoscale. With a protein shell of about 2 to 2.5 nm surrounding a ferritin iron core of about 7 to 8 nm the particles can form networks with polymer chains due to the carboxylic acid and the amino groups of ferritin shells. Nanofillers can decelerate crack propagation and delay complete failure of the composite hydrogel. Smaller filler particles increase surface area which maximizes the interaction between filler and polymer matrix. Ferritin exists naturally in a biocompatible form in various animals plants and bacteria for maintaining iron Shin et. al. 2009 Ohara et. al. 2009 . Polymer nanocomposites based upon the ferritin also have the possibility to respond to external stimuli and be mechanically adaptive. Those properties could theoretically allow the body of the jellyfish to change stiffness diffusion properties or electrical conductivity Hsu 2011 .

The rowing mechanism used by jellyfish involves sequential contractions of the bell mesoglea. In that case compressive modulus provides a reasonable metric for characterizing the performance because natural mesoglea is usually under a compressive load during the free swimming Dabiri et. al. 2006 . Thus artificial material developed to mimic the mesoglea should have similar compressive modulus.

A single UUV can use one or both of the above noted aspects of the invention. However a biomimetic UUV developed by taking into account certain oceanic species will in most practical embodiments use both the above noted aspects of the invention. The reason for this is simple. Most of the oceanic species maximize the hydrodynamic efficiency by optimizing the body movement with the vortex structure. They also require tilt information to achieve directionality and proper turning. Proper body movement requires flexible material such as that developed in this invention and tilt information can be obtained from the tilt sensor. The combination of the biomimetic sensing technology with flexible artificial structural materials will allow development of superior hydrodynamic vehicles that have similar swimming efficiencies as that found in nature.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements or steps throughout.

The resistance and inclination relationship of the sensor was investigated by measuring resistance for each of the sixty connections individually with a multimeter Fluke FLU87 5 Digital Multimeter . The analog voltage output was recorded and plotted against resistor number in . That is a function of the changes in resistor value provided by the manufacturer. The resistor position is measured from the first resistor to the left of the input output connections clock wise around the sensor to the 60position immediately to the right of the connectors. It was found that the sensor was quite linear with a slope magnitude of 0.0831. If the sensor were perfectly linear the slope should be 0.0833 since we are dividing the 5V signal into 60 individual voltages.

The artificial statocyst reduces the complexity involved in extracting the tilt angle as the voltage readings are directly obtained. In comparison a conventional off the shelf sensor chip such as the Honeywell HMC634 needs several intermediate steps before the final output can be obtained. In that case first the tilt sensing occurs and data is stored momentarily on the chip. Then the data is transferred through an I2C bus to a converter that allows the computer to use the USB protocol. That COM signal is then run into software such as LabView where the raw data is collected. A LabView VI then stores the data which can be displayed on the screen in a variety of ways. In comparison the data from the artificial statocyst can be directly utilized in LabView.

The artificial statocyst was integrated into the Robojelly Villanueva et al. 2011 as shown in . The vehicle utilizes eight radially arranged bio inspired shape memory alloy composite BISMAC actuators which mimic the appearance morphology and kinematics of the species. Shape memory alloy actuation was controlled as a function of input current. The vehicle was able to propel itself in static water conditions and achieve a proficiency of 0.19 swhile the achieves around 0.25 s. A circuit was designed to break up the large input signal for all eight BISMAC into individual signals so that different parts of the bell could be controlled independently.

In summary a tilt sensor based on the jellyfish statocyst was designed and characterized. The fabrication process included a procedure followed for printed circuit boards combined with readily available surface mount components. The sensor was found to be highly linear in response. The average tilt angle needed for reading was found to be 4.21 degrees with a standard deviation of 1.77 degrees and the average deviation from the true reading was found to be approximately 4.85 degrees with a standard deviation of 4.88 degrees. The sensor was integrated with a robotic jellyfish vehicle to show the viability of that type of sensor with UUV platform. Custom built electronics were designed to split up a single input signal into 8 differing signals allowing individual actuators to be controlled independently.

A second preferred embodiment is directed to an artificial mesoglea for a robotic jellyfish or a similar vehicle. A homogenous solution was prepared consisting of 15 wt polyvinyl alcohol PVA with molecular weight of 146 000 Hyon et al 1989 . PVA was purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. and combined with a mixture of 18.2 M cm water and organic solvent dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . Mixing ratio of water to DMSO ranged from 50 50 to 90 10 by weight. DMSO with 99.9 purity purchased from Sigma Aldrich was thawed to room temperature liquid prior to use. Once PVA water and DMSO were combined the solution was covered and stirred vigorously at 140 C. for two hours. After sufficient mixing the solution was a clear gel. The gel was swiftly poured into a mold degased in a vacuum chamber and then placed in a 5 C. freezer for 10 hours to promote crystallization. The crystallized hydrogel was then placed in a flowing bath for 4 days consisting of a constant supply of water to exchange DMSO in the gel with water Hyon et. al. 1989 .

Crystallinity has been found to increase with PVA concentration and freezing time while the breakdown of the crystalline structure was seen during the thawing process Miyazaki et al. 2002 Peppas et al. 1991 . Additionally PVA polymer with higher molecular weight was chosen because it has been found to increase crystallite size and overall phase Mandelkern et al. 1967 . Upon further examination it was found that the synthesized structure consisted of three phases a water phase with low PVA concentration an amorphous phase and a crystalline phase that restricts some of the motion of the amorphous PVA chains. Researchers have introduced organic solvents during the freezing and thawing process to promote greater crystallinity Mansur et al. 2004 . That occurs because during the freezing stage the molecular movements are restricted. The intermolecular nucleation of PVA begins at that stage with the initiation of hydrogen bonding. With the addition of the organic solvent crystallization can proceed further because of the lowered freezing temperature and significant volume expansion. That yields a much stronger and more durable hydrogel than conventional PVA synthesis Yokoyama et al. 1986 .

Ferritin was used to form the artificial mesoglea. show a ferritin particle 600. shows the elastic spring model of a ferritin protein shell 602 with a ferritin iron core redrawn from Shin et al. 2009 except shown here as embedded in a polymer matrix 608. The protein shell functions as a set of springs 610 providing restoring and expanding forces F. shows a 3D rendering of the surface and cross section of a ferritin nanoparticle redrawn from Ohara et al. 2009 .

A PVA ferritin nanocomposite hydrogel was synthesized by using the method described above for producing PVA hydrogel. However prior to mixing water with PVA and DMSO 0.25 grams of undiluted stock 54 mg mL ferritin nanoparticles type 1 from horse spleen purchased from Sigma Aldrich was injected into 100 mL of 18.2 M cm water. The ferritin nanoparticle and water solution was sonicated for 5 minutes to ensure homogeneous dispersion. That mixture was then used in place of water in the standard PVA hydrogel preparation. PVA is a matrix for ferritin nanoparticles FNPs which are nanofillers. Other nanoparticles such as inorganic clays and carbon nanotube molecules have also been explored for improving the mechanical properties of hydrogels.

For comparison the water content of natural jellyfish was measured. Five samples of approximately 22 mm diameter jellyfish were lightly rinsed to remove excess salt water. The samples were then allowed to dry in air for 120 seconds to remove the surface water. The pre dried weight was recorded and then the samples were exposed to light air flow under a fume hood for three days at which point the post dry weight was recorded. After drying salt crystals were observed on the samples showing that the mesoglea was indeed carrying a large amount of sodium from the surrounding seawater.

The compression strength of the artificial mesoglea is an important metric of suitability to task. Compression testing was conducted on a Texture Analyzer manufactured by Stable Microsystems Ltd. The instrument was fitted with a 5 kg load cell with 0.01 N resolution. The following test method was developed by combining the guidelines from two existing ASTM standards that address compressive properties of rubbers and rigid plastics ASTM D575 Standard Test Methods for Rubber Properties in Compression and ASTM D695 10 Standard Test Method for Compressive Properties of Rigid Plastics. Those two standards were chosen as model methods because of the polymeric nature of PVA and the rubbery similarities that silicone exhibits.

PVA and PVA ferritin hydrogels were compressed at a rate of 12.5 mm min 0.5 0.1 in min to achieve a deformation of 50 of the specimen thickness. The number 50 was chosen because naturally occurring has a maximum compressive deformation which does not exceed 50 . Specimens were cylindrical in shape with dimensions of 28.6 0.1 mm in diameter and 12.5 0.5 mm in thickness. All the tests were conducted in an environment of 23 2 C. and 50 6 relative humidity. Compressive forces were applied twice to condition the specimen and readings were taken during the third applied compressive force. Conditioning was performed to ensure that any internal stresses created during the hydrogel manufacturing process were accounted in the measurement. Compression platens were sufficiently larger than all specimens to ensure no material exceeded the perimeter of the platens during compression. Additionally 400 grit waterproof sandpaper was placed on the top and bottom surfaces of the compression platens to minimize specimen slippage during compression. All silicones were compressed at a rate of 1.2 mm min to a deformation of 98 . Video recordings and image processing in MATLAB were used to measure the true compressional surface area for calculating stress.

For comparison the compression strength of natural mesoglea was tested. Natural mesoglea was taken from specimens of around 30 mm in diameter. A sample of 28.6 0.1 mm in diameter was cut from the bell. The thickness was measured in air by digital calipers. All tests were conducted in an environment of 23 2 C. and 50 6 relative humidity. The same equipment and load cell were used to test both artificial and natural mesoglea. Similar to the artificial hydrogel methods compressive forces were applied twice to condition the specimen and readings were taken during the third applied compressive force. Once again the compression platens were sufficiently larger than all the specimens to ensure that no material exceeded the perimeter of the platens during compression. 400 grit waterproof sandpaper was placed on the top and bottom surfaces of the compression platens to minimize the specimen slippage during compression. Specimens were compressed at a rate of 1.2 mm min to a deformation of 98 . Video recordings and image processing in MATLAB were used to derive the true compressional surface area for calculating stress.

The Young s Modulus of natural jellyfish mesoglea was found to be highly variable as shown in . Since mesoglea stress strain behavior is non linear it is not possible to represent mesoglea stiffness in terms of a single value of Young s modulus. illustrates that tangent modulus

PVA hydrogels exhibited non linear behavior similar to that of the natural jellyfish mesoglea. There was a wide range of stiffness value depending upon the water to DMSO ratio. Higher water to DMSO ratio lowered the stiffness of the material. The addition of FNPs was found to increase the stiffness of the hydrogel if water to DMSO ratio was held constant. The addition of FNPs also eliminated the micro failures in the hydrogel. That can be seen in the inset of .

Samples of hydrogels with and without ferritin were characterized for their dielectric properties. Small samples of approximately 5.5 mm 5.5 mm 2 mm were cut from the larger blocks of hydrogel material. The small samples were allowed to dry in air for approximately 120 sec to allow excess surface moisture to evaporate. The hydrogel squares were then placed between two parallel copper plates also of dimensions 5.5 mm 5.5 mm. Care was taken to keep the copper plates in parallel with each other. A frequency sweep of capacitance was taken with an impedance analyzer Hewlett Packard 4274A Multi Frequency LCR Meter from 500 Hz to 1 MHz. are the dielectric constants of PVA hydrogel with and without FNP reinforcement respectively over 500 kHz range. The dielectric constant for 90 10 PVA without FNPs was the highest while for PVA with FNPs 50 50 was the highest.

All hydrogels followed a clear trend of increasing optical clarity with increased DMSO content. Stiffness increases inversely with the water to DMSO ratio in PVA hydrogels with and without FNP reinforcement. In general ferritin increased the modulus of the hydrogel while also increasing resistance to breakage. It can be seen in the magnified region of that small ruptures were encountered during testing of the hydrogels without FNP. The stress builds slightly and then rapidly decreases. In the hydrogels with FNP that effect is greatly reduced which can be seen in the inset. The hydrogels with the highest water content begin to enter a region where they emulate the measured mechanical properties of natural jellyfish mesoglea. According to the experimental data shown PVA hydrogels with around 90 water to DMSO ratio provides a good alternative mesoglea. At 50 strain the stress in the hydrogel is about 20 that of the Ecoflex RTV silicone. That will dramatically reduce the amount of power needed in actuators to propel an aqueous robot constructed of artificial jellyfish mesoglea. In all the experiments conducted Ferritin was held constant 0.25 g in 100 mL .

PVA hydrogels have a stiffness between that of living jellyfish mesoglea and silicone. Outside of a water environment jellyfish are very fragile so that may be a desirable compromise. Megill s 2002 results yielded joint mesoglea possessing a stiffness of 130 Pa while the bell mesoglea was 352 Pa. The species he used for testing was . Compared to an the is much smaller and uses a jetting method of swimming. uses a rowing mechanism for swimming and can grow up to 10 times the size of . Also Megill s samples were fixed before testing which most likely would have altered the material properties. Our results indicate that jellyfish mesoglea is stiffer by an order of magnitude than Megill previously reported. Additionally PVA hydrogels both with and without FNP with high water to DMSO ratios can adequately match the stiffness properties of natural 90 10 water to DMSO PVA hydrogel matched well with the natural material due to a similar modulus in the range of natural compression. FNPs caused the dielectric constant for the regular PVA hydrogels without FNPs to be flipped in order for PVA hydrogels with FNPs. That is most likely due to the carboxylic acid and amino groups dispersed throughout the polymer network. Water content was not varied instead the water to DMSO ratio was varied which resulted in different mechanical properties. That ratio as well as water to PVA content could be varied to fine tune the properties of artificial mesoglea.

As hyperelastic materials are able to deform greatly small deformation assumptions are no longer valid and the local coordinate system associated with the specimen is quite different as compared to the rigid global coordinate system. Thus instead of defining the stress strain relationship by Young s modulus in the usual sense that is coordinate system dependent a model that is capable of measuring strain independent of the coordinate system is needed. The standard method for representing elastic properties of hyperelastic materials is through non linear models such as neo hookean Ogden or Mooney Rivlin. We chose the 3 parameter Mooney Rivlin model to conduct a comparative analysis of artificial and natural mesoglea material. Equation 1 describes the strain energy density function W for the 3 parameter Mooney Rivlin model where cis the measure of initial elastic modulus slope of the stress strain curve d is the compressibility parameter and is 0 for materials exhibiting incompressibility I A and

The comparison suggests that mesoglea is about 7.8 times softer than Ecoflex. PVA hydrogel with ferritin nanoparticles 90 water 10 DMSO solution was 5.8 times stiffer by comparing cand thus a better material for artificial mesoglea.

In summary a PVA based hydrogel is a promising base material for artificial mesoglea. Mechanical similarities exist between the PVA hydrogel reinforced with FNPs a nanofiller which acts like elastic nanosprings and biological mesoglea a fiber reinforced tissue . Softer sections of joint mesoglea can be replicated by varying DMSO and nanofiller content to allow for folding during rowing contraction which is seen in rowing jellyfish. Modulus pairing between artificial and natural mesoglea for specific regions is a potential topic of future research. Additionally saltwater stability and absorption must be addressed to ensure that the outer layer does not degrade during use. The Mooney Rivlin model suggests that PVA hydrogel with ferritin nanoparticles 90 water 10 DMSO mix is 5.8 times stiffer compared to natural mesoglea while tradionally used Ecoflex 0010 silicone was 7.8 times stiffer.

While preferred embodiments of the invention have been set forth in detail those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the present invention. For example while the disclosed tilt sensor has a circular cavity for two dimensional detection different shapes three dimensional detection or both could be implemented such as a spherical cavity for three dimensional detection. Three dimensional detection could alternatively be achieved by having two circular tilt sensors arranged orthogonally to each other. Also disclosures of specific numerical values or ranges are illustrative rather than limiting as are disclosures of specific compositions. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

