---

title: Managing knowledge-based authentication systems
abstract: A method is used in managing knowledge-based authentication systems. Organization based information is analyzed for information that is suitable for creating a set of responses for a question. The question is used for authenticating a user. A set of responses is created for the question based on a set of parameters. The set of responses includes incorrect responses to the question along with a correct response. The incorrect responses helps in identifying an unauthorized user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092599&OS=09092599&RS=09092599
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09092599
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
The computer systems include proprietary and non proprietary computer networks and often store archive and transmit all types of sensitive information. Many computer users and other entities have systems that utilize some form of security. Therefore there often arises a need to prevent all but selected authorized persons from being able to carry out some defined transaction or to gain access to electronic equipment or other system facility or data. Preventing unauthorized clearance or access typically involves devices which limit access to the subject data facility or transaction to those who possess a unique physical device such as a key or who know a fixed or predictable hereinafter fixed secret code. In at least some cases relying on a fixed code or unique physical device as the means to control such selective clearance or access can mean that would be unauthorized users need only obtain possession of the fixed code or unique device to gain such clearance or access. Typical instances of fixed codes include card numbers user numbers or passwords issued to customers of computer data retrieval services.

Thus one common solution for employing identity verification as a security enhancing feature of enterprise systems that may be at risk for fraud or similar misuse is the use of secret passwords known only to actual authorized users of an enterprise system or service. In operation it is necessary for a user to present the correct password before access is granted to data or functions of the service. The use of the correct password serves to verify a user s identity to an acceptable confidence level on the assumption that passwords are kept secret and are not easily guessable. However passwords provide little security in that they are generally susceptible to inappropriate access through either brute force attacks or through phishing. Phishing is the sending of electronic communication that claims to be from some web site in order to trick the recipient into revealing information for use in having the user reveal information such as his username and password. The user is often directed to a web site that looks like the actual web site in question and may silently redirect the user to the real web site after collecting their username and password or use a man in the middle server.

Another identity verification technique is referred to as knowledge based authentication or KBA. KBA employs one or more challenge questions whose answers are typically intended to be readily recalled by the actual known user referred to as the genuine user while being unknown and difficult to guess by another person posing as the known user referred to as the fraudster . KBA questions require data that is specific to the known user.

A knowledge based identity verification system receives and processes a verification request to verify the identity of a current user as the known user. The knowledge based authentication system forms one or more questions. The question or questions are then presented to the user. When the user responds the response supplied by the user is compared to a valid response to the question. The result of the comparison can serve as a basis for increased or decreased confidence in the identity of the current user and corresponding actions may be initiated. If the comparison between the responses supplied by the user and the correct responses are true the user is allowed access to the target of the authentication. Otherwise the user is not authenticated. For example the identity verification system may provide an output indicating whether the comparison resulted in a match indicating that the current user answered the challenge question s correctly. This output may be used by a protected service to make a decision whether to allow a transaction or access to protected data or functionality.

An information validation service known as RSA Identity Verification or Verid created by RSA The Security Division of EMC Bedford Mass. compiles and enables verification of the identity of a user through inquiries into public record or publicly available information regarding the user s status and or activities. It is not expected that the user would necessarily answer all questions to correspond exactly to the answers on file. Thus there is a usual threshold set such as a majority of the questions for example 2 out of 3 questions will qualify as a pass or alternatively for example 2 out of 3 questions could trigger a second round of an additional number of questions. Based on the strength of the user s assertion various options are available including posing further questions and or re directing the user to an alternate authentication approach.

In particular Verid provides a question based screened verification method that includes asking an individual questions regarding the individual s asserted identity at an authorized location to determine whether the individual s asserted identity is correct.

Conventional knowledge based authentication KBA involves deriving questions regarding a particular user from facts in a publicly available database and asking that user one or more of the derived questions to verify the authenticity of the user. For example conventional KBA accesses facts such as addresses mortgage payments and driving records from a LexisNexis server a credit bureau or a motor vehicle registry.

Suppose that a user wishes to make a purchase at a store using a store account. In conventional KBA the store may ask the user a set of questions derived from a set of facts concerning the user in order to complete the purchase. Such questions may include when were you married what was the make and model of your first car and what was the name of your first pet . If the user answers the questions correctly the store completes the purchase. On the other hand if the user answers questions incorrectly the store may take remedial steps to verify the authenticity of the user. For example the store may ask for further proof of identity such as a driver s license.

Unfortunately there are deficiencies with the above described conventional KBA. For example facts obtained from a publicly available database may be known by members of the public. Consequently KBA questions and responses derived from such facts may be insecure because an imposter may have examined facts relevant to a particular legitimate user.

A method is used in managing knowledge based authentication systems. Organization based information is analyzed for information that is suitable for creating a set of responses for a question. The question is used for authenticating a user. A set of responses is created for the question based on a set of parameters. The set of responses includes incorrect responses to the question along with a correct response. The incorrect responses helps in identifying an unauthorized user.

Described below is a technique for use managing knowledge based authentication systems which technique may be used to provide among other things analyzing organization based information for information that is suitable for creating a set of responses for a question where the question is used for authenticating a user and creating a set of responses for the question based on a set of parameters where the set of responses includes incorrect responses to the question along with a correct response where the incorrect responses helps in identifying an unauthorized user.

Conventionally for example suppose that an employee of a corporation wishes to access sensitive files stored in a database under the control of the corporation a conventional knowledge based authentication system generates a set of questions and responses for authenticating a user from publicly available facts. However in such a conventional system publicly available facts such as what type of car a user owns or what city and state the user was born in are also available to third parties via public records. Further in such a conventional case even questions which relate to information that is inaccessible in public records for example a user s favorite color can be found out using techniques such as phishing that are used to compromise usernames and passwords. Further in such a conventional case publicly available facts pose a risk of exposure to potential imposters also referred to herein as fraudsters .

Further conventionally when a member e.g. employee of an enterprise forgets a password for accessing organizational information the member contacts a service representative or self service portal for resetting the password and only provides personal information such as badge number name and business telephone number. In such a conventional case such personal information may be available on a business card thereby making such information susceptible to be stolen and accessed by a fraudster. Further in such a conventional case using conventional knowledge based authentication KBA system to authenticate the employee an enterprise has little control over the security of KBA questions because the enterprise does not control the source of public facts used for creating KBA questions.

In at least some implementations in accordance with the technique as described herein an enterprise knowledge based authentication eKBA system provides an on premise identity verification enabling customers to create stronger identity verification challenges for their internal audience such as employees contractors and partners. A user attempting to seek access to corporate assets through a self service portal or a service representative is challenged with multiple choice questions based on corporate data sources associated with that user. Corporate data sources may include facts from documents such as emails meeting notices presentations and spreadsheets that are stored on a organizational information management server such as a Microsoft Exchange server or IBM Lotus Domino server. Further corporate data sources include information that may be available in an organization such as who emailed recently to a user that is being authenticated and to whom the user sent emails recently. Thus in at least one embodiment of the current technique challenge questions and responses to the challenge questions are generated based on information under the control of an organization.

Thus in at least one embodiment the current technique allows an organization to be confident in the security of the eKBA questions used to authenticate users attempting to access resources belonging to the organization. Moreover information management servers from which facts are used to derive eKBA questions are not available to the public because the information stored on the information management servers is confidential. Consequently an organization may have control over the security of the eKBA questions because the source of facts for those questions is under the control of the organization.

A typical scenario may be where a user such as an employee of a corporation contacts a corporate service representative SR indicating to the SR that the user does not remember corporate login password and provides a badge number as identification. In such a case the SR uses the badge number to identify the alleged employee and obtains a set of challenge questions and responses associated with the set of challenge questions and presents such questions to a user for authenticating the user.

In such a case when an organization or corporation attempts to authenticate a user within the organization an eKBA system may retrieve information from information management server such that the organization acquires facts from documents such as emails meeting notices presentations and spreadsheets that are stored on a information management server such as a Microsoft Exchange server or IBM Lotus Domino server. A eKBA server then generates eKBA questions and responses from the acquired facts and stores the eKBA questions and responses on a question response server.

For example an eKBA system forms questions from data in the email e.g. emails from a Microsoft Exchange server associated with a user discussing a meeting with another person at a particular time and place. Such questions can be Which of the following individuals sent you a large number of emails over the last week Which of the following is a recurring meeting in your calendar Which of the following is a due task in your calendar and so forth.

In at least some implementations in accordance with the technique as described herein a set of responses are created for a question generated by eKBA system in such a way that the set of responses includes incorrect responses also referred to as wrong answers fake answers or confounders where incorrect responses are difficult for a fraudster to guess and distinguish from the correct response but easy for a genuine user which is being authenticated. Thus for example a challenge question and responses associated with the challenge question may be generated based on a recent long chain of emails instead of an email sent and or received few months ago because a genuine user is most likely to remember the recent long chain of emails instead of the old email sent and or received few months ago.

In at least some implementations in accordance with the technique as described herein the use of a set of parameters for creating a set of incorrect responses can provide one or more of the following advantages improving authentication by creating a set of incorrect responses that may not be known or easily guessed by a fraudster improving security by generating questions and responses from enterprise facts associated with a user within an organization where the organization retains control over the security of the facts used to generate eKBA questions and responses.

Thus the improved technique prevents a hacker or third party from finding out the correct response to a challenge question as corporate information associated with a user is not public information. Further phishing is curtailed as corporate information associated with a user changes and evolves over time thus changing the user s response to a challenge question based on them. Further incorrect responses to a challenge question are created in such a way that the incorrect responses are similar to correct responses such that the similarity poses a difficultly for a fraudster to guess the correct response but does not pose a problem for a genuine user such that the genuine user is able to distinguish the incorrect responses from the correct response.

Referring now to shown is an example of an embodiment of an enterprise knowledge based authentication system that may be used in connection with performing the technique described herein. illustrates an electronic environment for carrying out the current technique. Electronic environment includes enterprise KBA system organizational information management server enterprise app server authentication terminal and communications medium .

The electronic environment includes enterprise knowledge based identity verification component that performs identity verification for a user attempting to access corporate information or a protected organizational server e.g. eroom . Generally identity verification involves a user providing information often secret that is uniquely associated with a particular user. A simple example includes a password or personal identification number PIN . Knowledge based identify verification is typically more involved. The knowledge based identity verification component has access to information that should be known by a user whose identity is being verified and this information is used to generate challenge questions that must be answered correctly by the user as a condition to identity verification.

User sends to eKBA system a request to access resources . Request may include a user identifier such as badge number associated with a member of the organization.

Initially the user of an organization provides some initial identifying information such as a name and a badge number to a service representative or an authentication service e.g. self service portal and the service representative or authentication service initiates an exchange with the identity verification component to verify the user s identity as a condition to providing access to protected data or functions of the organization. In this context a distinction is made between a known user and a current user to allow for the possibility that they may be different. A known user is the actual employee of the organization while a current user is a user currently requesting service by presenting himself herself as the known user. That is the identifying information provided to the service representative or authentication service presumably identifies a known user and is being provided by a current user who is either the known user commonly referred to as genuine or somebody else posing as the known user fraudster . The goal of identity verification is to increase the confidence that the current user is the genuine user rather than the fraudster.

Upon receipt of request eKBA system provides user with selected eKBA questions from eKBA questions stored on question response server . User provides eKBA system with answers not pictured to selected eKBA questions and based on the answers eKBA system authenticates user .

Communication medium provides network connections between enterprise KBA system information management server enterprise app server and authentication terminal . Communications medium may implement a variety of protocols such as TCP IP UDP ATM Ethernet Fibre Channel combinations thereof and the like. Furthermore communications media may include various components e.g. cables switches routers gateways bridges NAS SAN appliances nodes interfaces . Moreover the communications medium are capable of having a variety of topologies e.g. queue manager and spoke ring backbone multi drop point to point irregular combinations thereof and so on .

Information management server stores applications and data concerning organizational personal information including email calendar and shared documents for members of an enterprise. For example the enterprise may be a corporation whose members are employees. Data stored in information management server takes the form of various data sources such as email messages meeting notices and documents on which members have collaborated. For example that a data source may a Microsoft Exchange server data source maybe an IBM Lotus Domino server and data source may be an SAP server. In some arrangements some or all of data sources are remote from eKBA system in other arrangements some or all of data sources are in the same location as eKBA system .

Enterprise KBA system obtains facts from information management server stores facts on fact server generates eKBA questions from facts and provides selected KBA questions to authentication terminal via enterprise app server . eKBA system includes a fact server a question response server a question generator a response generator a fact extractor and a question picker .

Enterprise app server provides an application programming interface API for providing questions and responses including incorrect responses to user . Authentication terminal receives questions from enterprise app server and presents them to user in some cases through a service representative. In some arrangements authentication terminal is a net view terminal.

Fact server is an electronic system in communication with question generator . Fact server acquires facts from information management server and stores facts within a fact database see . In some arrangements fact server generates facts from data sources stored on information management server .

Question generator is an electronic system in communication with fact server and question response server that generates eKBA questions and associated eKBA responses including incorrect responses from facts . Question response server is an electronic system in communication with question generator and question picker . Question response server stores eKBA questions and associated eKBA responses and sends eKBA questions to question picker for question selection.

Question picker is an electronic system in communication with question response server . Question picker selects questions from eKBA questions stored on eKBA question response server based on certain criteria. For example question picker filters out eKBA questions that have already been provided to users such as user . In some arrangements question response server is also in communication with external systems such as enterprise app server . Question picker may also be in communication with authentication terminal at which a service representative provides questions to user .

During an operation enterprise KBA eKBA system extracts a set of facts from data sources stored on information management server . In some arrangements eKBA system performs the extraction on a periodic basis e.g. a nightly run. In other arrangements however eKBA system performs the extraction in response to an event.

Further an administrator may use administrator terminal for providing policies to eKBA system for generating a set of responses.

Network interface takes the form of an Ethernet card in some arrangements network interface takes other forms including a wireless receiver and a token ring card.

Memory is configured to store code which includes fact code configured to extract raw data from data sources organized in information management server see and convert the raw data in a distinct data format with which a fact source is stored in fact database . Further memory is configured to store code which includes question code configured to generate a set of eKBA questions from facts obtained from information management server . The eKBA questions in turn are stored in fact database . Further memory is configured to store code which includes response code configured to generate a set of incorrect responses from facts obtained from information management server based on a set of rules and or parameters. The set of incorrect responses in turn are stored in question response database . Further memory is configured to store code which includes question selection code configured to select a set of questions that are provided to user based on a use case scenario.

Processor takes the form of but is not limited to Intel or AMD based micro processor units MPUs and can include a single or multi cores each running single or multiple threads. Processor is coupled to memory and is configured to execute instructions from question selection code response code fact code and question code .

Processor includes fact engine response engine question selection engine and question engine . Processor accesses data see over network interface . For example information management server may include a database not pictured on which data sources may be stored. Processor would then perform lookup operations on the database to find data that had been stored in the database since the previous lookup operation.

Fact engine forms facts from data sources accessed on information management server . Question engine derives eKBA questions from facts and stores derived eKBA questions in question response database . Response engine derives eKBA responses from facts and stores derived eKBA responses in question response database .

Furthermore it should be understood that some embodiments are directed to enterprise KBA system which is constructed and arranged to provide a set of incorrect responses for a question selected to authenticate a user. Some embodiments are directed to a process of providing a set of incorrect responses for a question in an enterprise KBA system. Also some embodiments are directed to a computer program product which enables computer logic to provide a set of incorrect responses in an enterprise KBA system.

In some arrangements enterprise KBA system is implemented by a set of processors or other types of control processing circuitry running software. In such arrangements the software instructions can be delivered within enterprise KBA system in the form of a computer program product each computer program product having a non transitory computer readable storage medium which stores the instructions in a non volatile manner. Alternative examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

Referring to shown is a detailed representation of components that may be included in an embodiment using the techniques described herein. With reference also to in at least one embodiment of the current technique question engine engages question generator logic to generate questions for each user in an organization based on organization facts and scores each of the generated question based on the quality of each question. Further response engine engages response generator logic to create an appropriate set of confounders also referred to as wrong answer fake answer or incorrect answer response for each of the question generated by the question generator logic .

In at least one embodiment of the current technique quality of a question is defined by a set of parameters such as how well a genuine user can remember facts presented in the question. If the genuine user is able to remember the facts presented in a question effectively the quality of the question is considered high. Further the set of parameters that indicates quality of a question may include a parameter such as how easy it is to guess the correct answer also referred to herein as correct response by a fraudster. If the information and or facts provided as part of a set of responses to a question may be well known and or easily accessible quality of the question is considered low. Further the set of parameters that indicates quality of a question may include a parameter such as how much information a question exposes to a potential fraudster. For example if a question includes an e mail subject that provides a hint to a merger and acquisition process or an activity indicating hiring or firing of an employee quality of the question is considered low indicating that the question is not suitable for authenticating the user. Further the set of parameters that indicates quality of a question may depend upon incorrect responses to the questions that are provided to a user along with the correct response. For example whether incorrect responses to a question are similar to the correct response in such a way that it is difficult or impossible for a fraudster to guess and select the correct response out of a set of responses including the incorrect responses.

In at least one embodiment of the current technique response generator logic generates incorrect responses for a question based on a set of parameters also referred to as rules policies in such a way that it is easy for a genuine user to distinguish the incorrect responses from the correct response but hard for a fraudster to easily guess the correct response from the set of responses including the incorrect responses.

In at least one embodiment of the current technique in case of emails incorrect responses with high quality maybe defined based on a set of parameters. For example a set of parameters used for generating incorrect responses for a question related to email addressees included in emails sent to internal recipients in an organization by internal audience e.g. employees of the organization may include the following parameters 

1 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user in the same organization group as a recipient of an email which is the correct response for the question.

2 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user which is located in the same geographical location as the geographical location of a recipient of an email which is the correct response for the question. For example if a user which is being authenticated is located at an office in Israel incorrect responses may not include an email address of any employee which is located at an office in United States.

3 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user which is of the same ethnicity as the ethnicity of a recipient of an email which is the correct response for the question.

In at least one embodiment of the current technique for example for a question related to email addresses included in emails sent to internal recipients in an organization by external audience e.g. customers vendors of the organization parameters that may be considered for generating incorrect responses are 

1 If an original recipient of an email based on which the correct response for a question is generated is in a public email domain e.g. gmail.com an incorrect response preferably also includes an email address based on a public domain email system.

2 If an original recipient of an email based on which the correct response for a question is generated is in an enterprise email domain e.g. miscrosoft.com an incorrect response preferably also includes an email address based on an enterprise email domain

In at least one embodiment of the current technique for example for a question related to email addresses included in emails received by internal audiences from internal recipients in an organization a set of parameters that may be considered for generating incorrect responses are 

1 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user in the same organization group as a sender of an email based on which the correct response for the question is generated.

2 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user who is located in the same geographical location as the geographical location of a sender of an email based on which the correct response for the question is generated.

3 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address that is associated with a user which is of the same ethnicity as the ethnicity of a sender of an email based on which the correct response for the question is generated.

4 An incorrect response preferably does not include an email address of a user who is a sender in any other emails to a user who is being authenticated.

In at least one embodiment of the current technique for example for a question related to email addresses included in emails received by internal recipients in an organization from external audiences of the organization parameters that may be considered for generating incorrect responses are 

1 If an original sender of an email based on which the correct response for a question is generated is in a public email domain e.g. gmail.com an incorrect response preferably also includes an email address based on a public domain email system.

2 If an original sender of an email based on which the correct response for a question is generated is in an enterprise email domain e.g. miscrosoft.com an incorrect response preferably also includes an email address based on an enterprise email domain.

3 An incorrect response preferably does not include an email address of a user who is a sender in any other emails to a user who is being authenticated.

1 An incorrect response preferably includes an email address which is a valid email address such that it is difficult or impossible for a fraudster to guess the correct response from a set of responses including incorrect responses.

2 An incorrect response preferably does not include an email address associated with anyone who is a part of contacts list of a user which is being authenticated.

3 An incorrect response preferably does not include an email address of a user who is a part of an executive black list indicating that the information for the user may not be exposed.

4 An incorrect response preferably does not include an email address of a user who is a recipient in any other emails from a user who is being authenticated.

Further it should be noted that a set of rules parameters also referred to herein as polices described above herein for generating a high quality incorrect response is not exhaustive and additional rules parameters may be defined by a customer or user of enterprise KBA system . Further response generator logic may analyze every email associated with a user and create a set of incorrect responses for the user. Further a set of incorrect responses for a user may be created manually. Further a set of incorrect responses for a user may be created automatically by scanning entire data sources of information management server such as Microsoft exchange information associated with an organization.

Further in at least one embodiment of the current technique response generator logic may periodically update incorrect responses associated with a question generated by question generator such that the incorrect responses remain valid. For example a user may start interacting with a member of an enterprise with which the user has either never interacted or interacted recently.

As described above enterprise knowledge based authentication system in accordance with the current technique may be used to help securely authenticate the identity of a user. As used herein authenticate means to verify the identity of a user and so authenticate and verify can be used interchangeably throughout. Also although the specification discusses for simplicity authentication of users it should be understood that users means any entity requiring authentication such as for example a person device machine or computer. The inclusion of a single user is exemplary and typically the system can be used to authenticate a large number of users. Similarly the inclusion of a single authentication system is exemplary.

Enterprise knowledge based authentication system can be any sort of device that implements the functions described herein. In at least one embodiment at least some of system may be implemented as software running on an actual or virtual server class computer including a processor memory and so on to enable authentication of a large number of users for example in an enterprise. At least some of system can also be implemented as software running on a desktop computer laptop computer special purpose device or personal digital assistant PDA . For example at least some of system can be implemented as a software program running on a general purpose computer possibly interacting with one or more other computer programs on the same or a different computer. Some or all of the system functionality can be implemented in hardware for example in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In still further embodiments at least some of system can be implemented in a cellular telephone or specialized hardware embedded in a cellular telephone and adapted to interact with the cellular telephone s circuitry. Other sizes shapes and implementations are possible without departing from the spirit of the invention.

Authentication can result in the performance of one or more actions including without limitation providing access or privileges taking action or enabling some combination of the two. Access includes without limitation access to communications network or a computer system access to such services as financial services and records or health services and records or access to levels of information or services. The user and at least some of system can be physically near one another or far apart.

As described a user can communicate with enterprise KBA system . Enterprise KBA system can optionally provide a user interface. Communication between the user and enterprise KBA system can take place via this user interface. The user interface may provide an input interface an output interface or both. An input interface may enable the user to communicate information to enterprise KBA system . For example enterprise KBA system may include a web browser with a plug in software component.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with preferred embodiments shown and described in detail their modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention should be limited only by the following claims.

