---

title: Methods and apparatus for contingency communications
abstract: Methods and systems for contingency communication are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method for providing emergency services may be performed by a portable device operating in a communication system. In an embodiment, the method for providing emergency services includes operating in at least one of a plurality of modes. A stress mode may be entered from a normal mode in response to receiving a beacon signal indicating an emergency status. An indication may be provided on the portable device regarding the emergency status via an audio, visual, or mechanical user interface during the stress mode. An acknowledgement signal may be transmitted in response to the beacon signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275540&OS=09275540&RS=09275540
owner: Neocific, Inc.
number: 09275540
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 595 578 filed Feb. 6 2012 the contents of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate to contingency communications such as for example emergency networks and systems for search and rescue.

In a natural or man made disaster e.g. earthquake victims can be buried or stranded under or beneath collapsed buildings. In many cases emergency workers encounter difficulties locating victims and rescuing them in a timely manner. What is needed is a system that enables emergency workers to quickly locate victims during search and rescue efforts during such disaster scenarios.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention methods and systems for providing contingency communications are disclosed. In one embodiment a method for providing contingency communications may be performed by a portable device operating in a wide area communication system such as a cellular voice or data network. In an embodiment the method for providing contingency communications includes operating in at least one of a plurality of modes. A stress mode may be entered from a normal mode in response to receiving a beacon signal indicating an emergency status. An indication may be provided on the portable device regarding the emergency status via an audio visual or mechanical user interface during the stress mode. An acknowledgement signal may be transmitted in response to the beacon signal.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Methods and apparatus for contingency communications such as for example emergency networks and systems for search and rescue are disclosed.

In some embodiments of the invention an emergency network may comprise mobile emergency base stations MEBS s portable search units PSU s and personal terminals PT s . A MEB may comprise multiple communication systems. Furthermore an MEB may be equipped with a synchronization subsystem or a location determination subsystem such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver. MEBS s may communicate with each other over a predetermined wireless network and exchange information. Some of the information may be obtained from processing distress signals. A PSU may be a device carried by a mobile rescuer or mounted on a rescuing robot. A PSU may comprise multiple communication systems and may be equipped with a synchronization subsystem or a location determination subsystem. A PT may be a stand alone device or integrated or embedded into a portable host device. A PT may comprise or be communicatively coupled with various sensors that are configured or designed to sense the surrounding environment.

In some embodiments beacon signals and probing signals may be transmitted by a MEBS over a DL broadcast channel. The signals may be relayed or repeated by a PSU or a PT. A beacon signal may contain information that the PT can use to perform receiving functions. The beacon signal may also contain messages and instructions addressed to the PT s. A probing signal may contain a unique identification for the PT or a group of PT s. The probing signal may also contain information to allow the PT to perform receiving functions or messages and instructions for the PT. Distress signals may be transmitted by PT s on UL channels to a MEBS or a PSU. Distress signals may be relayed or repeated by a PT. A distress signal may contain essential data about its bearer. A beacon signal probing signal or a distress signal may occupy a frequency band designated for search and rescue during emergency state or may occupy or overlay on a frequency band used by a normal radio network.

Beacon signals may be periodically broadcast by MEBS s via the DL channel and the PT s may respond to the beacon signal by transmitting their distress signals via the UL channels in a manner as instructed by the beacon signals. When MEBS s successfully detect the distress signals over the UL channels the MEBS s may proceed to decode the information carried by the disaster signals extract the attributes associated with the disaster signals and report the data and information associated with the PT s to the master MEBS. The master MEBS may combine the data and information to determine the PT s complete identifications locations biometrics and priority levels for rescue operations.

The following discussion contemplates the application of the disclosed technology to communication systems communication networks wireless local area networks wireless ad hoc networks time division duplex TDD networks frequency division duplex FDD networks wireless mobile terminals and wireless base stations.

The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for various embodiments of the technology. One skilled in the art will understand that the technology may be practiced without these details. In some instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the technology. It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain embodiments of the technology. Although certain terms may be emphasized below any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the disclosure without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the disclosure and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this disclosure.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the disclosure or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the disclosure. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium or other memory readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the disclosure e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number in this Detailed Description section also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the claims use the word or in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

A MEBS may be mounted on a land vehicle airborne craft or marine vessel. A MEBS may also be set up at a fixed location such as a hill top or a tower site of an existing traditional normal radio network. Without loss of generality MEBS is used in the ensuing paragraphs to illustrate functions of either a fixed or mobile base station.

The vehicle that a MEBS is mounted on may also serve as a local command post. The mounted MEBS may communicate with a command center or any facility outside of the emergency network via a communication system or network such as a communication satellite a point to point microwave system or and a cellular wireless network.

A MEBS may consist of multiple communication systems. Furthermore it may be equipped with a synchronization or location determination subsystem such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver. MEBS s may communicate with each other over a specific wireless network and exchange information obtained from processing distress signals. A MEBS may communicate with a PSU via a specific wireless network exchanging information with and providing instruction to the PSU. A MEBS may transmit the beacon or probing signals to PT s and receive distress signals from PT s.

A PSU can be carried by a mobile rescuer or mounted on a rescuing robot. A PSU may consist of multiple communication systems and may be equipped with a synchronization or location determination subsystem such as a GPS receiver. A PSU may communicate with a MEBS via a specific wireless network. A PSU may also transmit beacon or probing signals to PT s and receive distress signals from PT s. In some embodiments a PSU may be considered a portable MEBS and may implement similar functions.

A PT can be a stand alone device or integrated or embedded into a portable host device such as a cellular phone personal data assistant PDA tablet computer iPhone iPad smart phone portable media player portable game player and watch. A PT can also be a part of integrated circuitry in a host device or be a set of software code that runs on a host device or portable device . The host device may be carried by or in the vicinity of a person. A typical portable device shown in may comprise processors for normal mode operations and a processor for stress mode operation as well as other major components. The stress mode processor may be coupled directly or via a data bus with the normal mode processors and other major components. The operation of the stress mode processor may be independent of the operations of the normal processors . The stress mode processor when entering into the stress mode may take control of the operations of the major components. For example it may activate some components while shutting down others.

A PT may consist of or be coupled with various sensors including but not limited to motion sensing orientation sensing audio sensing optical sensing pressure sensing temperature sensing chemical sensing biological physiological sensing and or biometric sensing. The sensors may be configured or designed to sense the surrounding environment. For example a PT may also be equipped with multiple audio or video sensors that can sample audio or video from different angles or directions. These sensors may be configured or controlled by the emergency network or a normal radio network to obtain better results. The operation can help rescue team to better observe and understand the disaster environment for example inside a collapsed building.

In some embodiments a sensor or sensors on a PT may be designed to provide a wide angle view of the surrounding environment. For example an optical sensor may be in the form of a fish eye having a 360 degree view. A part of the PT containing a sensor or sensors may pop up from the host device to survey the environment. A sensor may have a shape of polyhedron such as a cube or octahedron with sensing capability on each side or multiple sides to provide a full or near full view of the environment.

A PT may be configured to receive the beacon or probing signals from one or more MEBS s and PSU s and transmit distress signals to one or more MEBS s and PSU s.

A PT may comprise both receiving circuitry and transmitting circuitry. The receiving circuitry may be further divided into two parts. The first part may perform the function of detecting beacon or probing signals and the second part may perform other receiving functions such as demodulation and decoding.

In some embodiments the detection circuitry may be kept powered on continuously turned on for a period and off for another period of different lengths or turned on and off under predetermined conditions. In an embodiment the detection circuitry may be turned on

When its host device is turned off the PT detection circuitry may be kept functioning using one of the methods described above.

Once a PT receives a beacon or probing signal from a MEBS or PSU that indicates an emergency state the PT may enter into a stress mode.

When the detection circuitry detects beacon probing signals the rest of the receiving circuitry may be turned on to perform the necessary receiving functions.

The transmitting circuitry may be turned on when the PT is ready or scheduled to transmit distress signals to the MEBS s or PSU s. After transmission the transmitting circuitry may be turned off until it is ready or scheduled to transmit again.

In some embodiments the host device can be powered by at least two batteries one reserved for performing normal functions such as phone calls and the other for the PT operations. Alternatively the host device may reserve a minimum level of power for performing the PT functions and any power exceeding that level can be used for carrying out general applications. Some functions of the PT can be overridden manually.

An emergency network may be formed between the MEBS s PSU s and PT s. A MEBS within the emergency network may serve as the master MEBS which provides a reference that all other MEBS s all PSU s and PT s can synchronize to. An emergency network including MEBS s PSU s and PTs may operate at a low frequency band for deep in building penetration. A MEBS may cover a large area with a high level of transmission power.

The emergency network may consist of multiple systems that enable communications between MEBS s PSU s and PT s.

The MEBS s may form a mesh network and exchange information with each other as depicted in . Alternatively a MEBS only communicates with the master MEBS as depicted in

A group of PSU s may be associated only with a particular MEBS to form a cluster as depicted in . The MEBS directly communicates with its PSU s to provide coordination and instructions. Alternatively PSU s may be directly associated with the master MEBS which directly communicates with the PSU s to provide coordination and instructions as depicted in .

In one embodiment a MEBS may receive data from a normal radio network that was or is running in the neighborhood of disaster area. The data may include information about subscribers that are registered on associated with or resided within whether actively or inactively the normal radio network. The MEBS utilizes the information to assist its search and rescue functions.

An emergency network may be used in parallel with a normal radio network or in place of a normal radio network if the latter has collapsed during a disaster.

Beacon signals may be transmitted by a MEBS over a DL broadcast channel. The beacon signals may be relayed or repeated by a PSU or a PT. A beacon signal may contain information for the PT to perform receiving functions e.g. synchronization in time and frequency and channel estimation and messages and instructions to the PT s e.g. UL multiple access and control and acknowledgement of reception of distress signals .

Probing signals may be transmitted by a MEBS or PSU to an individual PT or a specific group of PT s. A probing signal may contain the unique identification of the PT or the group of PT s. The probing signals may be relayed or repeated by a PT. A probing signal may contain information for the PT to perform receiving functions e.g. synchronize in time and frequency and channel estimation and messages and instructions to the PT e.g. UL multiple access and control and acknowledgement of reception of distress signals .

A beacon signal or probing signal may be shaped to provide the capability to penetrate structures in a disaster environment such as collapsed buildings. In one embodiment a beacon signal or a probing signal may be a spread spectrum signal with high spreading gain or coding gain.

Distress signals may be transmitted by PT s on UL channels to a MEBS or a PSU. The distress signals may be relayed or repeated by a PT. A distress signal may contains essential data about its carrier such as the carrier s biometrics or life signs temperature heart beats blood pressure movement key pressing etc. its location e.g. from GPS carrier s identification and other data. A distress signal may contain pilot signals to assist the MEBS or PSU with signal reception.

A beacon signal probing signal or a distress signal may occupy a frequency band designated for search and rescue during an emergency state or may occupy or overlay on a frequency band used by a normal radio network.

In the time division duplex TDD case a transmission frame consists of two subframes one for DL transmission and the other for UL transmission as depicted in . It should be noted here that the term frame is only a time unit of a specific duration. It is used for better understanding and illustration of the methods and processes. Following a DL subframe there is a relatively short time period provided as guard time for transition from DL to UL and following a UL subframe there is another relatively short time period provided as guard time for transition from UL to DL. A UL subframe may be substantially longer than the DL subframe.

DL subframe may be divided into multiple DL slots . One or more slots may be assigned for transmission of beacon signals by the MEBS s. One or more slots may be used for retransmission or relay of beacon signals by a MEBS PSU or and PT. One or more slots may be assigned for transmission of probing signals or probing relay by a MEBS or PSU. One or more slots may be allocated for the use by the MEBS and PSU s in a cluster .

UL subframe may be divided into multiple UL slots . One or more slots may be assigned for transmission of distress signals by the PT s. One or more slots may be used for retransmission or replay of distress signals by a PSU or and PT. A UL slot is not necessarily of the same length as a DL slot.

In the frequency division duplex FDD case DL transmission and UL transmission are carried out in two different frequency bands. A band for UL transmission may be substantially wider than that for DL transmission. A FDD transmission frame consists of multiple slots as depicted in .

In some embodiments the frame length is the same for both the DL and UL but a UL slot does not necessarily have the same length as a DL slot as long as the following condition is met 

where Ldenotes the length of a DL slot and Ldenotes the length of a UL slot and M and N are positive integers.

In other embodiments the DL frame length may be different from the UL frame length. One or more DL slots may be assigned for transmission of beacon signals by the MEBS s. One or more slots may be used for retransmission or replay of beacon signals by a MEBS PSU or and PT. One or more slots may be assigned for transmission of probing signals or probing relay signals by a MEBS or PSU. One or more slots may be allocated for the use by the MEBS and PSU s in a cluster .

One or more UL slots may be assigned for transmission of distress signals by the PT s. One or more slots may be used for retransmission or relay of distress signals by a PSU or and PT.

Multiple MEBS s may transmit or retransmit the same beacon signal at substantially the same time and over the same frequency channel.

Multiple PSU s and PT s may relay the same beacon signal at substantially the same time and over the same frequency channel.

The master MEBS may provide schedules to other MEBS s and PSU s to coordinate the transmission of probing signals. The scheduling may be based on a first come first service policy for the probing signal sending requests by the MEBS s and PSU s or based on a priority set by a predefined set of criteria. For example a higher priority may be given to the MEBS or PSU that is to probe a PT of critical biometrics or low battery levels.

A UL channel may consist of multiple subchannels in time frequency code or a combination thereof. UL multiple access can be provided using TDMA time division multiple access FDMA frequency division multiple access CDMA code division multiple access CSMA carrier sense multiple access etc.

Unlike in a traditional cellular network where mobile devices enter the network gradually instead of joining network in a burst a large number of PT s may respond to a beacon signal in a burst. Therefore it is important to design the initial uplink signaling e.g. random access to avoid frequent collisions of uplink signals.

In some embodiments the beacon or probing signals may contain messages for UL multiple access instructions for the PT s. The message may instruct a group of PT s with certain common attributes to transmit their distress signals at specific UL slots using specific codes or and via specific subchannels in the time frequency or code domains or a combination thereof. The common attributes may be the physical characteristics or the identifications of the PT s. For example a group PT s may have the same last hex number in the MAC address or the last two digits of their identification may fall within a specified range. The assignment of slots codes or subchannels to the PT s can be in a particular order in a random order or other prescribed means. An assignment example is given in the table below.

In an embodiment the UL multiple access instruction may contain the priority for the UL transmission of distress signals based on the received signal strength or SNR signal to noise ratio of the DL signals the remaining battery level of the PT s the biometrics of the PT carriers or other criteria.

In one embodiment the MEBS can access a database that maps the identities of users subscribers residing on traditional normal cellular networks and the identities of PT s. The MEBS may utilize the information it obtains from the data base about residing users e.g. the identities in the neighborhood to instruct the PTs regarding multiple access. For example the MEBS can divide the residing users and corresponding PTs into a plurality of groups and assign different radio resources for different groups for random access or sending distressed signals.

In some embodiments of the invention the emergency network may be overlaid temporally and locally on top of an existing normal radio network or cellular wireless network for non emergency applications e.g. audio broadcast TV broadcast and land mobile radio .

Referring to in a normal cellular wireless network the geographical region to be serviced by the network is normally divided into smaller areas called cells . In each cell coverage is provided by a base station BS . Thus this type of structure is normally referred to as a cellular structure as shown in . Within each coverage area there are located mobile stations MS s to be used as an interface between the users and the network. BS is connected to the backbone of the network usually by a dedicated link. Base station also serves as a focal point to distribute information to and collect information from its mobile stations by radio signals. A cell can also be divided into sectors . From a system engineering point of view each sector can be considered a cell. In this context the terms cell and sector are interchangeable.

For a wireless network using multicarrier transmission scheme such as orthogonal frequency division multiplex OFDM the physical media resource e.g. radio or cable can be divided in both the frequency and time domains. This division provides high flexibility and fine granularity for resource sharing.

One or more normal channels allocated for the existing radio network can be converted and aggregated into a broadcast channel for transmitting the beacon or probing signals by the MEBS s and PSU s. Normal channels may be those used in normal non emergency applications such as commercial radio TV broadcasting or land mobile communications.

The distress signal transmitted by a PT may be spread across the available spectrum or a spectrum substantially wider than the broadcast channel for the beacon and probing signals. Spectral valleys created in the overlaid signal to reduce interference with the broadcast channel or other channels may also be used as shown in

The spectral nulls can be achieved either by filtering in the time domain or by suppressing some subcarriers in the frequency domain.

In other embodiments normal channels used by an existing normal network can be vacated for use by the emergency network. A MEBS or a PT may operate in the same frequency band as used by a normal radio network employing a 2G 3G or 4G technology such as GSM WCDMA or LTE. In band signaling may be used for the emergency network. Alternatively the emergency network may operate in a frequency band different from operation frequency bands of a normal radio network.

An existing normal radio network can temporally partially and or locally be reconfigured or switched to emergency operation mode. For example a group of the base stations in a disaster zone may be reconfigured or switched by the network operator to serve as MEBS s. These base stations may transmit or retransmit the same beacon signal or emergency signal at substantially the same time using the same frequency channels.

In some embodiments an LTE system can be reconfigured into a search and rescue system. In the downlink the primary synchronization signal PSS the secondary synchronization signal SSS and or the physical broadcast channel PBCH may be repeated in multiple preferably consecutive OFDM symbols to increase SNR and penetration. Alternatively the bandwidth for the PSS SSS and PBCH may be widened by increasing the length of a Zadoff Chu sequence or by repeating a Zadoff Chu sequence in the frequency domain. Similarly in the uplink a random access signal or a sounding reference signal SRS may be repeated in the time domain e.g. multiple preferably consecutive OFDM symbols or time slots . Alternatively the bandwidth for the random access signal or SRS and the PBCH may be widened by increasing the length of a Zadoff Chu sequence or by repeating a Zadoff Chu sequence in the frequency domain.

The communications between MEBS s may make use of an existing data communication protocol. Information sent by a MEBS to another MEBS may include its own location coordinates the partial or complete identification of a PT the PT s location coordinates the corresponding biometrics or and the attributes of the corresponding distress signal e.g. angle of arrival and time of arrival .

In an embodiment a MEBS may send a request for transmission of probing signals to the master MEBS which in return provides the schedule for the MEBS to transmit the probing signals.

The communications between MEBS s and PSU s may make use of an existing data communication protocol. Information sent by a MEBS to a PSU or vice versa may include its own location coordinates partial or complete identification of a PT the PT s location coordinates the corresponding biometrics or and the attributes of the corresponding distress signal e.g. angle of arrival and time of arrival .

In an embodiment a PSU may send a request for transmission of probing signals to the master MEBS which in return provides the schedule for the PSU to transmit the probing signals.

Beacon signals may be periodically broadcast via the DL channel. A MEBS may transmit the beacon signals using a wide antenna beam in a PT sparse area or by scanning through a PT dense area using a narrow antenna beam.

The PT s may respond by transmitting their distress signals via the UL channels in a manner as instructed by the beacon signals. If a PT is equipped with a GPS receiver or other location determination capability the PT may include its latest coordinates in the distress signal. In addition the MEBS or PSUs may seek to locate the PT through detection of arrival time or receiving power of the distress signal transmitted from the PT. Multiple MEBS or PSUs at different locations may work in collaboration to locate the PT.

In one embodiment once a PT receives a beacon or probing signal that indicates a disaster state the PT may enter into a distress state and automatically transmit a distress signal. The PT may also inform or control the host device to enter into a power saving mode for extended battery life by turning off non essential functions that consume power. For example the host device may terminate processes for entertainment functions such as video rich operations or large file downloading that consume a large amount of power.

Upon the detection of a beacon signal a PT or its host device may fall back from an advanced communication operation to a rudimentary operation e.g. from LTE to 3G or GSM or from 3G to GSM for reducing power consumption.

In one embodiment a host device may comprise a special man machine interface for human initiation of transmitting distress signals with or without reception of a beacon signal from the MEBS or PSU. For example a host device may have a special button or an icon on its display screen that a human can push touch to activate sending a distress signal. The information contained in the distress signal may be automatically generated or configured by network or by the carrier operator of the host device.

A PT may return to a normal state after it receives a signal from MEBS its host device receives an instruction from the traditional normal radio network or by human interaction.

MEBS s may detect the distress signals over the UL channels. Once a distress signal from a PT is detected successfully by a MEBS the MEBS may proceed to decode the information carried by the signal and to extract the attributes associated with the signal. The MEBS may then report the data and information associated with this PT to the master MEBS which may combine the data and information from other MEBS s to determine the PT s complete identification its location biometrics and its priority for rescue. The master MEBS may then register the PT with the corresponding data and registry information. The registry which is maintained by the master MEBS may be a table consisting of entries of the identification of the PT its location its biometrics information its priority for rescue and its rescue status. Once the PT has been registered an acknowledgement message is embedded in a beacon signal to be transmitted by the MEBS s. The master MEBS may periodically send the updated registry to MEBS s.

Once a PT has received the acknowledgement the PT may be configured such that it will not transmit the distress signal even if it belongs to a group that a beacon signal calls for to transmit. The PT remains silent until it is probed by a MEBS or PSU with a probing signal. Those PT s that have not received the acknowledgement will continue to listen to the beacon signal for instructions to retransmit their distress signals.

Based on the information in the registry a MEBS may determine if it will instruct its PSU s to act. For example if the PT is located within the coverage area of a particular MEBS with high priority this MEBS will dispatch one of its PSU s to approach the PT and to pinpoint its exact location for rescue.

The PSU may transmit a probing signal by pointing its high directivity antenna toward the direction of the PT. Once the PT hears the probing signal it will respond by transmitting a distress signal. Based on the distress signal the PSU may find the exact location of the PT for the rescue. There are a number of ways to determine the status of the person owner associated with this PT. If the PT signal level increases significantly or if the location of this PT changes significantly it is likely that the person owner has been found and the PSU may report the rescue status. The status can also be reported manually.

To distinguish a PT of a disaster victim from a non victim certain criteria can be applied. For example if the speed of the movement of a PT is above a specified threshold and or its range of movement is greater than a specified threshold it may be considered unlikely that this particular PT is carried by a disaster victim.

When an overriding input e.g. a key sequence voice command or gesture is entered by its carrier the PT may be configured so that it will not respond to the beacon or probing signal and or send a signal to indicate that this PT is carried by a non victim.

In some embodiments a MEBS or a computer server connected to one or more MEBS may receive and store information for users that have resided or currently reside in one or more traditional normal radio networks that provide data or voice service to subscribers in the same neighborhood. The normal radio networks may be operated by different service providers with possibly different technologies. For example one service provider operator may use GSM technology while another service provider operator may use a CDMA technology. Some or all of the mobile devices serviced by an operator may contain one or more PTs. The MEBS may transmit beacon signals or probing signals to PTs and detect feedback signals such as distressed signals transmitted from PTs. The MEBS or the computer server may then compare the list of users that resided on normal radio networks before a disaster the list of responding PTs and or the list of users that are identified through other methods e.g. bulletin board manual check in or hospital reports. The results of the comparison results may be used to direct search and rescue efforts.

As an example consider a person with a mobile device that was residing on a normal radio network in a neighborhood the mobile device being equipped with a PT. The MEBS receives a distress signal from the PT over the emergency network. If the person is located or identified then the person is marked as located in the user list maintained by the MEBS or the computer server. If a user in the list is still marked missing a message may be sent over the emergency network to request manual feedback from the user either through voice video or the data interface. A key function or touch screen function may be pre configured for easy operation by the person possibly severely wounded to send feedback. Alternatively the sensors in the PT or mobile device may automatically or remotely controlled to detect or record any vital signs such as sound temperature or pulses record audio signals via its microphone or record a video signal via its camera sensor. The PT or mobile device may then automatically or be remotely commanded to transmit the signals related to the recorded signals audio signals or video signals possibly with compression and encoding to the MEBS. The above actions may be conducted repeatedly to improve results.

The data received from the PT and or location information obtained via the emergency network may be provided to rescue teams to improve search and rescue efforts. If one or more normal radio networks are still functioning after a disaster these normal radio networks and the emergency network can collaborate to provide better results.

In some embodiments a PT may have three operation modes normal mode semi stress mode and stress mode. A PT in normal mode may enter into semi stress mode based on one or more conditions such as loss sudden or for an extended period of normal radio network signals. A PT in normal or semi stress mode may enter into stress mode after detection of a beacon signal indicating an emergency state from a MEBS or PSU or after input from human interaction. On the other hand based on human interaction or input a PT may change modes from stress mode or semi stress mode to normal mode. A PT may be configured to function differently in different modes. For example a PT in semi stress mode may increase the frequency of wake up for detection of beacon signals from MEBS. A PT in the stress mode may automatically configure its residing mobile device into power saving mode to extend battery life.

In other embodiments a MEBS may have two operational modes normal mode and stress mode. In normal mode a MEBS may broadcast beacon signals indicating a normal environment and receive or detect signals from PTs seeking special help. In stress mode a MEBS may broadcast beacon signals indicating an emergency state and receive or detect stress signals from PTs.

Referring to operation begins the operational procedure and operation illustrates operating in at least one of a plurality of modes. In an embodiment the plurality of modes includes a normal mode and a stress mode. In another embodiment the plurality of modes includes a semi stress mode. In one embodiment the portable device may enter the stress mode from the normal mode in response to a user input received via a user interface on the portable device. Additionally and optionally the portable device may enter the normal mode from the stress mode in response to the user input.

In one embodiment the portable device may enter the semi stress mode from the normal mode in response to the portable device losing its connection to a cellular voice or data network. Furthermore the portable device may increase the frequency with which it detects the beacon signal in the semi stress mode as compared to the frequency with which it detects the beacon signal in the normal mode.

In one embodiment the portable device may operate in the stress mode with a battery physically or operationally separate from a battery for operation in a normal mode.

In one embodiment the portable device may operate in the stress mode with less power than in the normal mode. The portable device may also fall back from an advanced communication operation to a rudimentary operation in response to entering the stress mode. For example the portable device may fall back from LTE or 3G operation to GSM operation upon entering the stress mode

Operation illustrates entering the stress mode from the normal mode in response to receiving a beacon signal indicating an emergency status.

Operation illustrates providing an indication on the portable device of the emergency status via an audio visual or mechanical user interface during the stress mode.

Operation illustrates transmitting an acknowledgement signal in response to the beacon signal. In one embodiment the acknowledgement signal may indicate information selected from a group comprising identity of the portable device position of the portable device and biometrics of the user or carrier of the portable device. The portable device may also receive a scheduling signal containing information indicating instructions for transmitting the acknowledgement signal.

In some embodiments a user or carrier of the portable device may be prompted to report the user or carrier s safety or medical status. Furthermore the portable device may transmit a stress signal in response to determining that a time out indicating failure to receive user input has exceeded a predetermined value.

In an embodiment the portable device may further receive and act upon an instruction to activate a monitoring device on the portable device.

Referring to operation begins the operational procedure and operation illustrates transmitting a beacon signal indicating an emergency status to a portable device. In one embodiment the beacon signal may be usable by the portable device to determine whether to enter a stress mode. In an embodiment the beacon signal may generate to facilitate in building penetration of the transmitted beacon signal. For example the beacon signal may be a spread spectrum signal with high spreading gain or coding gain.

In some embodiments the acknowledgement signal may carry information that may comprise the identity of the portable device the position of the portable device and or biometrics of a carrier or user of the portable device.

Operation illustrates receiving an acknowledgement signal from the portable device in response to the beacon signal.

Operation illustrates deriving from the received acknowledgement signal information associated with the portable device or a carrier of the portable device.

In an embodiment the base station may also transmit an instruction to activate a monitoring device on the portable device. In other embodiments the base station may transmit a scheduling signal containing information indicating instructions for transmitting the acknowledgement signal. In further embodiments the base station may access a database or a list of subscribers of a cellular network covering a geographical area near or overlapping with a geographical area covered by the base station.

Lastly while the present disclosure has been described in connection with the preferred aspects as illustrated in the various figures it is understood that other similar aspects may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating there from. For example in various aspects of the disclosure methods and systems for communicating in a wireless communications system were disclosed. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

