---

title: System and method for virtual piggy bank wish-list
abstract: A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing one or more programs configured for execution, the one or more programs for monitoring, transmitting, and recording usage of a computer or mobile device connected to a network, the one or more programs including instructions for establishing a first account, the settings of the first account being stored in a database; establishing a second account, the settings of the second account being stored in the database, wherein the second account includes a wish-list; linking the first and second accounts such that control settings of the second account are determined through the first account; and making a purchase from the wish-list of the second account consistent with the control settings of the second account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762230&OS=08762230&RS=08762230
owner: Virtual Piggy, Inc.
number: 08762230
owner_city: Hermosa Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
This application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 554 578 filed on Nov. 2 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 044 filed Mar. 27 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 479 243 filed on Apr. 26 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 431 023 filed Mar. 27 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 479 241 filed on Apr. 26 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 063 filed Apr. 8 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 235 filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 053 filed Apr. 8 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 233 filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 057 filed Apr. 8 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 234 filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 059 filed Apr. 8 2011 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 232 filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates an Internet payment system and method and more particularly to an Internet payment system and method having a variety of customizable controls which can be accessed and implemented during an actual purchasing transaction from a prospective Internet user s wish list.

Using the Internet has become extremely easy and one aspect of this ease is that children of very young ages are able to gain access to Internet websites of all kinds and make purchases at a variety of websites. Juxtaposed with this ease is the Children s Online Privacy Protection Act COPPA which lays out specific guidelines for how website operators and online businesses must interact with children 13 and under. In general COPPA requires parental notification and consent prior to an online operator s collecting using or disclosing a child s personal information. Compliance with COPPA can be daunting for an online business. While some online businesses are taking steps to comply with COPPA many of the new media companies including Facebook are choosing to avoid COPPA compliance by restricting their sites to over 13 s and foregoing a significant business opportunity in interacting with the under 13 market segment. In the past parents were often happy to give their children small amounts of money to buy comics and candy from a corner store there is no equivalent mechanism currently for the internet. The generation of children growing up today has never known a world where the internet was not present and they expect to be able to play games interact with friends and make purchases online. There is ever increasing pressure on the parents and guardians to provide more online access to their children while at the same time a worrying lack of control in the online world.

Parental controls are known and generally fall into two categories active control and passive control. Active controls e.g. hardware and software firewalls and hardware access controls and systems prevent a child from accessing information over the Internet that a parent does not want them to retrieve and view. Passive controls e.g. a software audit system allow a parent to audit the information their children have been accessing and the activities their children have been performing while online. While these active and passive control systems help parents to control the information available to children via the Internet there are no provisions to control the types of services that children may sign up for and or purchase over the Internet.

Currently parents may either provide their children with a credit card or purchase a pre paid card so that their children may conduct a monetary transaction on the Internet. While this may work for a few instances it is not a viable option with the rapid growth of websites online games and online applications appealing to children and the ever increasing online footprint of children. The credit card is also particularly troubling since it provides no control or limitation on what or how much the child can acquire.

With the rapid proliferation of websites online games and online applications for children under 13 there is a need for a system that parents can setup and children can use to conduct online monetary transactions while limiting or obviating a child s need to provide their personal information. Thus a system is needed that will enable a parent to quickly and easily manage a child s access and personal information provided to websites or in the alternative provide parental consent to the collection and use of certain necessary information as well as to control how money is spent at the websites by a child.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a system and method for a virtual piggybank that substantially obviates one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

In an embodiment of the present invention a method and system of control preferences for a prospective Internet user by creating an online account funded through a direct deposit the account includes specific control parameters activating the online account by accessing a web based system designated by the online account and controlling a user s use of the web based system through the online account. In addition the system provides a web page and view for a registered user to use. The web page contains information on how much money has been pre approved for spending how much is available to spend and contains a wish list of desired items contributors may purchase through the system.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described in one aspect a computer implemented method of establishing an online account for a prospective user the method comprising the steps of establishing a first account the settings of the first account being stored in a database establishing a second account the settings of the second account being stored in the database wherein the second account includes a wish list and linking the first and second accounts such that control settings of the second account are determined through the first account.

In another aspect the system for virtual piggybank includes providing control preferences for a prospective Internet user comprising a server and a database hosted on the server the database storing information for a first account which is a custodian account and a second account which includes a user s wish list wherein control settings of the second account are established through the first account such that purchases made from the wish list of the second account are consistent with the control settings.

In yet another aspect the instructions for virtual piggybank includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution the one or more programs for monitoring transmitting and recording usage of a computer or mobile device connected to a network the one or more programs comprising instructions to establishing a first account the settings of the first account being stored in a database establishing a second account the settings of the second account being stored in the database wherein the second account includes a wish list linking the first and second accounts such that control settings of the second account are determined through the first account and making a purchase from the wish list of the second account consistent with the control settings of the second account.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description numerous non limiting specific details are set forth in order to assist in understanding the subject matter presented herein. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that various alternatives may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention and the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. For example it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter presented herein can be implemented by any type of user i.e. not limited to parent and child and on any type of standalone system or client server compatible system containing any type of client network server and database elements.

Data may be transferred between components on LAN in packets i.e. blocks of data that are individually transmitted over LAN . Routers create an expanded network by connecting LAN to other computer networks such as the Internet other LANs or Wide Area Networks WAN . Routers are hardware devices that may include a conventional processor memory and separate I O interface for each network to which it connects. Hence components on the expanded network may share information and services with each other. In order for communications to occur between components of physically connected networks all components on the expanded network and routers that connect them must adhere to a standard protocol. Computer networks connected to the Internet and to other networks typically use TCP IP Layering Model Protocol. It should be noted that other internetworking protocols may be used.

As shown in the virtual piggybank system includes a virtual piggybank server parent computer child computer and service requester . The virtual piggybank server may include a persistent software system and service that allow one or more persons responsible for one or more children to establish a controlled money management and payment system for use over the Internet. The adult preferences are stored on a database and include parental guardian custodian preferences and controls for the money management. The system provides an Application Programming Interface API that exposes software functions that other websites web services and Internet enabled desktop applications can use to enforce the adult preferences when children try to purchase items online. The websites web services and Internet enabled desktop applications partner with the present system virtual piggybank and an account is created. Each of the parent computer and child computer may be a desktop computer laptop computer tablet or portable computer smartphone mobile phone or other portable computing device. Service requester may include any online application such as websites online stores online games and online applications.

The following description uses as an example a parent as the person desiring to set controls regarding Internet use and a child as being the Internet user who will be controlled. These are only examples and the invention is not limited to those two classes of people. For example the following description would be equally applicable to an employer and employee.

At step a parent accesses the virtual piggybank system via the Internet to establish a virtual piggybank for a child. For example the virtual piggybank may be an Internet bank account with a debit card for use by a child but the virtual piggybank is not limited to this. In order to establish a virtual piggybank for a child a parent may first establish a parental account.

At step a parent or guardian may establish a parental account. The virtual piggybank system may guide the parent through the set up of a parental account. To establish a parental account a parent profile is created. A parent profile allows a parent to provide information that allows the virtual piggybank system to interact with a parent. For example the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A parent may be able to use an OpenID account to establish a parent profile. However the virtual piggybank system may request additional information as well such as a password name first middle and last address information verification preference such as e mail or short message service SMS that is used to verify a parental account primary phone number mobile phone number that may be used if SMS is selected as a verification preference so that SMS messages may be sent to a mobile phone a primary e mail address that may be used if e mail selected as verification preference secondary e mail password reminder questions time zone such that dates and times in the virtual piggybank system are based on this time zone and not the time zone of the server and currency preferences.

The parental account is secure and can only be accessed with the correct user name and password. All data transmissions may be encrypted and secure such as all profile information. Passwords that may be used by the parent child or others designated to properly use the system may have expiration dates to insure password strength. After a parental account is established a parent may then establish one or more child accounts. The settings of a child account may then be controlled by the parental account. For example the virtual piggybank system may present a number of options from which a parent may choose such that various controls may be imposed on a child by the virtual piggybank.

At step the virtual piggybank has the parent choose a payment option and or billing frequency. The information supplied here also will be secured through encryption and passwords

A parent may establish one or more payment accounts. A payment account is the account that will be used to make payment for purchases made by a child via a child account. In an embodiment of the present invention the system partners with a bank that provides a demand deposit account that a parent opens in the child s name. The account has a debit card associated with it and this debit card is used by the system instead of a parent s credit card to fund the child s transaction. The inventive system is the online interface with the bank account. Of course the payment account may be any known to those skilled in the art.

The partner bank may provide a user name and password associated with a direct deposit account so that payments made with the debit card from a child account may be charged to the direct deposit account. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication. Accordingly the partner bank may provide the following information relating to a direct deposit account a account name b account user name and password c account billing address e.g. street number street name city state zip country and d whether to accept outside payments to determine if someone else can fund this account. The last option will be discussed later.

At step a direct deposit account is created. In addition one or more child accounts also may be created at this time. Account information such as a user name password or payment information may be stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank server.

At step the virtual piggybank system may allow the parent to designate one or more contributors to a child account. A contributor may be a person other than a parent who may add money into the direct deposit account. For example a grandparent uncle aunt or other close family member may be designated as a contributor. The virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a contributor. For example a parent may designate a money limit that a contributor may add to a child account. Such a money limit may be determined by the total amount of money that is presently available to a child in a child account. Alternatively a money limit may be applied per contributor. In addition a parent may limit the frequency with which a contributor may add money to a child account.

For example a parent may designate a person as a contributor by providing that person s name and e mail address to the virtual piggybank system. The virtual piggybank system may send an e mail along with an authentication code and a link to a contributor. This link may not expire so that a contributor person can bookmark this page to send repeatedly money when he she wants. A contributor may then go to the link in the e mail enter the code the validity of which is then determined and if the code is valid then a contributor may be presented with a form that will allow them to enter their credit card information or payment account information such as a PayPal or Google account.

To establish child accounts a child profile or profiles are created as mentioned at step . A child profile may include a user name password and payment method such as the debit card account. A child may use the user name and password to conduct transactions on websites online games and online applications that are approved by a parent through the virtual piggybank system.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary add child profile set up screen according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in the add profile screen may be divided into several exemplary screen portions . At screen portion a parent may identify a child by name or nickname. Also a child may be given a child account user name i.e. Virtual Piggy ID that is associated with a parent account user name i.e. Parent Match ID .

At screen portion a parent may authorize service requesters including websites and other Internet based applications that a child may visit from which a child may make purchases etc. A parent can control whether every service requester needs to be approved by a parent. The parent can also selectively define which service requesters need to be approved while other services may be automatically approved.

At screen portion a parent may approve transactions from the child account based on a spending amount. A spending limit that limits the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval or a periodic spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on a periodic basis such as per day per week per month or over any particular time limit. Alternatively a parent may set a spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on an occasional basis such as a child s birthday or other holiday. In another alternative a parent may specify a payment account balance limit such that if the linked payment account balance goes below a specified balance no additional transactions will be permitted from a child account linked to it.

At screen portion a parent may designate contributors to a child account. For example a contributor may be another parent grandparent aunt uncle or other adult responsible for a child. At screen portion a parent may specify that notifications be sent for information including alerts regarding transactions contributions and the dashboard for the child account. Notifications may be sent by e mail SMS voicemail or the like. In addition a parent may specify that notifications be sent to a contributor. At screen portion a parent may authorize certain service requesters for use by a child.

Referring back to at step the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to setup a child profile. The virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a child by setting up a child profile. A child profile may include a list of approved websites i.e. Service Requester of and where a child is authorized to spend money from a child account a spending limit that limits the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval or a periodic spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on a periodic basis such as per week per month or over any particular time limit. Alternatively a parent may set a spending limit that limits the amount of money a child can spend on an occasional basis such as a child s birthday or other holiday. In another alternative a parent may specify a payment account balance limit such that if the linked payment account balance goes below a specified balance no additional transactions will be permitted from a child account linked to it.

In addition the virtual piggybank also may allow a parent to specify a time period during which a child may spend money from a child account. For example a time period may be certain hours of the day certain days of the week or any period so desired.

At step the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to setup specific notifications. Notifications may be sent by e mail SMS voicemail or the like. Such notifications may include any information regarding the account such as funds usage etc. For example a parent or contributor may receive notifications concerning the amount of money available to a child or recent purchases of a child if more than a certain number of transactions are carried out at a particular merchant or by a child over the course of a day if suspicious behavior occurs such as a number of unsuccessful login attempts or simultaneous login attempts were made . In another example a parent or contributor may receive a notification requesting approval of a particular transaction of the child account. In this example a reply SMS message or e mail may be sent by a parent or contributor to approve a transaction. Alternatively the virtual piggybank system may provide one or more links that may be clicked upon to approve or decline a particular transaction. If a notification is provided by phone a request for approval may be requested after the recital of an automated message and approval may be solicited through key selection.

At step a parent accesses the virtual piggybank system and selects an option to change the Authorized Contributor Setup. As discussed above a contributor may be a person other than a parent who may add money into the direct deposit account for the child of the virtual piggybank system. The virtual piggybank system may allow the parent to designate one or more contributors to a child account.

At step a parent enters profile information for a contributor that that will be authorized by a parent to contribute funds to a child s account in the virtual piggybank. The profile information may include the contributor s name address email address and any other information that will uniquely identify the contributor.

At step the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to impose one or more controls on a contributor. A parent is presented with a variety of controls that may be applied to a contributor regarding contributions that may be made to a child account. For example a parent may designate a money limit that limits the amount of money a contributor may add to a child account. Such a money limit may be determined by the total amount of money that is presently available to a child account. Alternatively a money limit may be applied per contributor. In addition a parent may limit the frequency with which a contributor may add money to a child account.

At step the virtual piggybank system may allow a parent to set specific notifications to be sent to a contributor. Such notifications may include any information regarding a child account such as funds usage etc.

At step profile information for a contributor is stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank system. Account information such as a user name password or payment information and notification sending information may be stored in a secure database by the virtual piggybank system.

At step a parent then selects a notification mechanism that the virtual piggybank sends to the contributor. For example a notification may be sent by e mail SMS or voicemail. Of course notifications also may be sent to a parent.

At step a parent is given the option of adding additional contributors. If a parent desires to add an additional contributor a parent again enters profile information for a contributor at step and again proceeds through the steps outlined above.

A parent may view a spending report by logging into the virtual piggybank system. A spending report may be an onscreen report that a parent can print or e mail if desired. A spending report is customizable and may show any combination of transaction dates transaction amounts service requesters daily weekly and monthly sub totals. For example a spending report may be generated for a particular service requester.

At step a child accesses an Internet website and selects an item for purchase. Here the virtual piggybank system may first determine whether a parent has allowed a child to access the website that the child is attempting to access. If a child is allowed to access the website a child may then enjoy the website s content. Otherwise a child may be redirected to an alternate website.

At step the website i.e. Service Requester makes a request to the virtual piggybank system. The request package contains all the required information necessary to identify the child attempting to make a purchase to the virtual piggybank system plus all the information about the proposed transaction.

A service requester may establish a merchant account with the virtual piggybank system. The merchant account allows a service requester to provide information to the virtual piggybank system to contact the service requester. For example the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A service requester may use their OpenID account to setup a merchant account. In addition a service requester may establish a payment acceptance account. This account will be used to accept payment. For example a service requester may use PayPal or a Google account linked with a bank account associated with the service requester. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication.

At step the virtual piggybank system examines the request. In particular the request is checked against a child profile to determine whether a transaction is allowed or not. A child profile includes information necessary to determine whether a transaction is allowed. For example a child profile may include a list of approved websites where a child is authorized to spend money from a child account a spending limit limiting the amount of money that a child can spend without obtaining parental approval or a periodic spending limit limiting the amount of money a child can spend per week or per month or over any particular time limit. In addition the virtual piggybank system also may allow a parent to specify a time period during which a child may spend money from a child account.

The virtual piggybank notifies the service requester whether the transaction is approved or not at steps and respectively. At the same time if the transaction is approved the virtual piggybank system may determine whether further approvals and or notifications are required at step . If notifications are required the required notification is sent to a parent or contributor as appropriate at step . Similarly if a further approval is required a seeking approval message is sent to a parent or contributor as appropriate at step . For example an e mail or SMS containing a seeking approval message may be sent to a parent or contributor. A parent or contributor may approve the pending transaction in a variety of ways such as reply SMS message return e mail or by logging onto a parental or contributor account.

Thus when a child logs onto the Internet and attempts to make a purchase at a Service Requester site that was previously designated as controlled by the virtual piggybank the Service Requester bank makes a web service call to the virtual piggybank. The virtual piggybank exposes the preferences that were established by an adult as described above to the Service Requester. The preferences may be exposed to the service requester via an application programming interface through a web service which may be a software system designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over the Internet.

As shown in a child user of a child account may access a service requester such as a restaurant or food delivery system at step . In this example the service requester may obtain child account identifying information and present the child account information to the virtual piggybank system at step . Once the method for implementing the child spending functionality of virtual piggybank as shown in is performed and the service requester approved a purchase from the service requester may be made. The virtual piggybank system then ensures that the service requester is paid for the selected service or item at step . Accordingly the service requester may then provide the purchased service or item as shown in step .

As discussed above a service requester may establish a merchant account with the virtual piggybank system. A merchant account allows a service requester to provide information to the virtual piggybank system to contact the service requester. For example the virtual piggybank system may support OpenID. A service requester may use their OpenID account to setup a merchant account. In addition a service requester may establish a payment acceptance account. This account will be used to accept payment. For example a service requester may use PayPal or a Google account linked with a bank account associated with the service requester. The virtual piggybank system may verify the validity of the account using the adaptive account API for Authentication.

The virtual piggybank system may generate revenues by charging service requesters a fee per transaction. For example the virtual piggybank system may use a payment account such as a PayPal or Google account as a payment network. The payment account may charge its standard rate on average 2.9 0.30 USD per transaction in addition to the virtual piggybank rate.

In the wish list shown as item in the child may click the plus symbol on the dashboard screen to add a wish list item from the list of approved service requesters authorized at screen portion in by the parent.

Alternately the child may select a desired item from a non approved service requester s website. Before the item may be added to the wish list however the parent is notified of the requested item and must approve or disapprove of the item before it is allowed to be added to the wish list.

The wish list provides accurate and timely information about what a child may desire or need and allows the parent to control settings and preferences that allows contributors to access a child s wish list and purchase items from the wish list. A contributor may be a family member such as an aunt uncle cousin or a close family friend but may be any type of user not limited to parent and child who is authorized to access the wish list. The virtual piggybank system may allow the parent to designate one or more contributors and each contributor may be given access to one or more children from the same family or group.

An Invite button located on the parent s home page allows the parent to designate a potential contributor by entering their name and email address . The contributors are contacted similarly to steps described above where an email is sent to a selected contributor with an authentication code and a link.

A contributor may click on the link enter an authentication code and may be presented with a sign up screen where the contributor may provide email password address and payment account information to the virtual piggybank system. Unlike parental sign up screens the contributor does not have to agree to any merchant terms and no details about the child s preferences are shown to the contributor. Authorization terms and conditions and privacy policy statements may be provided and must be approved by the contributor. Finally confirmation email and password identifiers are requested to establish the contributor account.

The parent may add or change contributors directly from the child profiles screen as shown in . The parent chooses a particular child and selects the Add authorized users link to associate one or more contributors with that child. Upon selecting the add link the parent is presented with a new screen where the parent can search the virtual piggybank database by email name or Virtual Piggybank ID for contributors or parents that match the search criteria. Multiple searches may be undertaken and a contributor from the search results may be selected by first clicking the Add radio button and then the Add button . When the contributors which may include parents are selected the parent may click the Done button to associate the contributors with the particular child. Only the authorized contributors and the initiating parent are allowed to see the child s wish list.

Selecting the Change authorized users link for a particular child as seen in opens another screen that lists the previously authorized contributors to the child s wish list. In the parent may elect to remove one or more of the previously authorized contributors by clicking the Remove radio buttons for the selected contributors. When the contributors are selected clicking the Done button will remove the selected contributors from access to the child s wish list.

Upon entering the virtual piggybank system a contributor is presented with a screen displaying a particular child s wish list. A selection box allows the contributor to select the name of a child the contributor is authorized to view and purchase items from its wish list. Each wish list shows a description of selected items their Uniform Resource Locators URL and the date the items were added to the wish list by the child. Instructions regarding the purchase of an item states that the contributor may click on a desired URL click on the virtual piggybank s checkout icon at the merchant s website and enter its Virtual Piggybank ID and password. Additional purchases may be made by repeating the aforementioned steps beginning with selection of the URL. When the contributor is finished purchasing items for a particular child the Done button may be selected to complete the transactions.

Located above the contributor s wish list screen are buttons to provide access to the contributor s payment account reports and the wish list . The reports button shows the contributor all items purchased by the contributor for a particular child. The payment account button presents the contributor with their account information including billing information and shipping information that may be passed onto the merchant for delivery of the purchased item to the contributor.

Similar to the parent may have a view of multiple child wish lists. The screen in has buttons to provide access to the parent s payment account reports merchants and child s wish list . The reports button shows the parent all items purchased by a contributor for a particular child including the merchant date and time of the purchase. The merchant button shows the merchant websites where a contributor has purchased an item for a particular child. The payment account button presents the parent with their own account information including billing information and shipping information that may be passed onto the merchant for delivery of the purchased item to the parent.

Each child s wish list may be accessed by the parent and edited. For example the parent may elect to delete an item from a particular child s wish list that the parent does not want the child to obtain. Deletion of the item is as easy for the parent as clicking on the Delete button identified with the wish list item. A wish list item deleted by the parent is then reflected in the contributor s and child s view of the wish list. When a parent or contributor purchases an item from a child s wish list the item is removed from the child s wish list and the parent s and contributor s view of the child s wish list. While the removed item signals to the child an item from their wish list has been purchased the child is unaware of who may have purchased it.

Alternatively the virtual piggybank system may be configured not to remove a wish list item when a parent or contributor purchases an item from a child s wish list. By not automatically removing the purchased item from the child s wish list and the parent s and contributor s view of the child s wish list the child is completely unaware of the purchase and may be surprised upon receiving the item from a parent or contributor. If a contributor attempts to purchase the same wish list item previously purchased by another contributor or parent for a particular child the subsequent purchaser is notified that the selected item has been purchased in order to prevent redundant purchases.

Furthermore the child s wish list may be customized by the parent by setting controls where individual items on the wish list are set to expire after a certain time period has elapsed and are automatically removed from the wish list. Additional customizations and controls may be provided for the parent and other information and methods of presenting information on a wish list may be known to those skilled in the art and are incorporated herein.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the system and method for virtual piggybank of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

