---

title: Remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a server
abstract: Certain aspects of a method and system for a wireless device to upload media to a web-based server may include a network that includes a wireless device and one or more mobile devices. The wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from one or more mobile devices. A unique identification may be communicated automatically without user input, to the one or more mobile devices when the media content is newly generated by the wireless device. The received authentication credentials and the unique identification may enable the newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web-based sever. The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web-based server via the one or more mobile devices, if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web-based server directly using wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more authorized wireless networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137347&OS=09137347&RS=09137347
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09137347
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 632 417 filed on Apr. 5 2012.

Certain aspects of the disclosure relate to uploading media to cloud based servers. More specifically certain aspects of the disclosure relate to a method and system for remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a web based server.

Wi Fi is a computer networking technology that uses radio waves to make a data connection in place of a traditional network cable. Formally called the Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers IEEE standard 802.11 it incorporates the radio frequencies power levels and data encoding techniques needed to make a local wireless computer network practical. Although Wi Fi works at distances up to 200 meters away providing coverage for most homes schools and small businesses the process of connecting to a public Wi Fi network is often cumbersome requiring users to manually select the network they would like to use and provision their devices to properly operate with the network.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a web based server substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention may be appreciated from a review of the following detailed description of the present invention along with the accompanying figures in which like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout.

Certain implementations may be found in a system and or method for remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a web based server. The web based server may comprise a plurality of networked servers and databases for example an ad hoc social networking server a cloud storage server and or a photo sharing server. Aspects may include a network that comprises a wireless device and one or more mobile devices. The wireless device may be operable to communicate with the one or more mobile devices in either a peer to peer ad hoc wireless mode or an infrastructure mode. The wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from one or more mobile devices. The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server via one or more mobile devices or directly from the wireless device via one or more wireless networks. A unique identification may be communicated automatically without user input to the one or more mobile devices when the media content is newly generated by the wireless device. The unique identification may enable the newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever. The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the one or more mobile devices if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server directly using wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more authorized wireless networks.

In accordance with another embodiment the network may comprise a mobile device and one or more wireless devices. The mobile device may receive server authentication credentials for configuring the one or more wireless devices from a web based server. The received server authentication credentials may enable one or more wireless devices to upload media content to the web based server via the mobile device. The mobile device may be operable to communicate the received server authentication credentials and a unique identification to the one or more wireless devices. The unique identification may enable newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever. The mobile device may receive the unique identification and the newly generated media content from the one or more wireless devices. The mobile device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server.

In a peer to peer ad hoc wireless mode the wireless device may be operable to directly communicate with the mobile device . The wireless device and the mobile devices within range may be operable to discover and communicate in peer to peer mode without involving central access points.

In an infrastructure mode the wireless device may be operable to join a wireless network or a wired Ethernet network or support a central connection point via the mobile device . Either the mobile device or the wireless device may function as an access point for wireless networking. The access point and other wireless clients may be configured to use the same service set identifier SSID to join the wireless local area networking WLAN . The access point may be connected to a wired network to allow wireless clients access to for example Internet connections. One or more other access points may be utilized to increase a reach of the infrastructure and support any number of wireless clients.

The wireless device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to generate media content by capturing still or video images via an electronic image sensor. In accordance with an embodiment the wireless device may be a digital camera for example. The wireless device may comprise a global positioning system GPS receiver to generate geo tagged media content. The wireless device may be operable to communicate utilizing one or more wireless communication protocols for example wireless local area networking WLAN such as Wi Fi Direct near field communication NFC and or Bluetooth wireless communication protocols. The wireless device may comprise memory for storing generated media content. The memory of the wireless device may be in the form of a removable memory card for example a secure digital SD memory card for storing generated media content. The memory card may comprise functionality for being auto configured remotely via a communication protocol. The memory card may comprise functionality for running one or more APIs or a web based server for example. The web based server may comprise a URL that may link to an address for uploading newly generated media content. The newly generated media content may be uploaded in one or both of an original resolution or a resolution that may be optimized for uploading to the web based server . The memory card may be operable to store the received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification.

The mobile device may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to communicate utilizing one or more communication protocols. In this regard the mobile device may be operable to transmit and or receive data via the communication network via one or more of CDMA GSM TDMA GPRS EDGE UMTS WCDMA OFDM TD SCDMA HSDPA and or LTE cellular communication protocols and one or more of WLAN NFC and or Bluetooth wireless communication protocols. Mobile devices may comprise laptop computers tablet computers mobile phones personal digital assistants and or personal media players for example or some other wireless device that is network capable and can send and receive information. The mobile device may be operable to receive process and present multimedia content and may additionally be enabled to run a network browser or other applications for providing Internet services to a user of the mobile device .

The web based server may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to generate server authentication credentials for configuring the one or more wireless devices . The web based server may comprise a plurality of networked servers and databases for example a social networking server a data mining server a communication and content server a member profile database a member location database and or a member usage database. The servers may perform different functions and may be separate processes that run on separate computers or a single computer.

The network may allow the wireless device and the mobile device to directly communicate with each other for example in a peer to peer ad hoc wireless mode. The network may grow or shrink without having to make any requests or reports to a central authority. When the mobile device is operating in ad hoc mode they may act as network nodes that may discover and communicate with other wireless network nodes that are within their range of communication. This communication happens in peer to peer mode without requiring a wireless access point or router. The Bluetooth NFC and Wi Fi standards may provide peer to peer connectivity. Notwithstanding other wireless standards that provide peer to peer connectivity may be used without limiting the scope of the invention. The peer to peer ad hoc network may use the mobile device as an access point or gateway to connect to the Internet for example.

In operation the wireless device may be switched ON and or Wi Fi may be activated on the wireless device and the mobile device . The wireless device may be operable to use a unique wireless device name to broadcast itself as a device capable of being auto configured remotely via the Wi Fi communication protocol. One of the mobile device or the wireless device may be operable to detect the other device automatically and a network connection for example a peer to peer connection may be established between the wireless device and the mobile device . Notwithstanding the disclosure may not be so limited and the mobile device may upon request by a user search for and detect the wireless device with the unique wireless device name and remotely request the wireless device to enter into a configuration mode without limiting the scope of the disclosure. Alternatively the wireless device may upon request by a user search for and detect the mobile device and request the mobile device to enter into a configuration mode without limiting the scope of the disclosure.

The mobile device may be operable to request server authentication credentials from the web based server. The mobile device may be operable to receive server authentication credentials for configuring the wireless device from the web based server . The received server authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to the web based server via the mobile device if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server directly using wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more authorized wireless networks. The received server authentication credentials may comprise one or both of login credentials for the web based server and or an upload token for the web based sever . The mobile device may be operable to utilize the received upload token to identify a specific user account for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server . The received upload token may be generated based on a hash operation of a user s authentication credentials and a date for example. The received upload token for the web based server may expire after a pre determined period of time.

The mobile device may be operable to communicate the received server authentication credentials to the wireless device via a communication protocol. The communicated server authentication credentials may be encrypted by the mobile device . The mobile device may be operable to communicate a list of authorized wireless networks and wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks to the wireless device via a communication protocol.

The mobile device may be operable to communicate a unique identification to the wireless device via a communication protocol. The unique identification may enable newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever . The unique identification may comprise credentials for a particular wireless network to be used by the wireless device for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device .

The wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification. The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server via the mobile device if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server directly using wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more authorized wireless networks. After the completion of the remote configuration of the wireless device the wireless device may no longer advertise itself using the unique wireless device name.

When a new photo is captured or a new video is recorded by the wireless device the wireless device may communicate automatically without user input the unique identification to the mobile device indicating the generation of new media content that may need to be uploaded to the web based server . The wireless device may be operable to dynamically enable and or disable itself from communicating the unique identification to the mobile device to optimize a battery life of the wireless device .

The mobile device may be operable to detect the unique identification from the wireless device and establish a peer to peer connection with the wireless device . The wireless device may be running one or more application programming interfaces APIs or a web based server for example. The web based server may comprise a uniform resource locator URL that may link to an address for uploading newly generated media content. The newly generated media content may be uploaded in one or both of an original resolution or a resolution that may be optimized for uploading to the web based server . The mobile device may extract the newly generated media content from the wireless device .

The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device capable of handling one or more cellular communication protocols if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks.

In a representative embodiment the wireless device may comprise memory for storing generated media content. The memory of the wireless device may be in the form of a removable memory card for example a secure digital SD memory card for storing generated media content. The memory card may comprise functionality for being auto configured remotely via a communication protocol. The memory card may comprise functionality for running one or more APIs or a web based server for example. The web based server may comprise a URL that may link to an address for uploading newly generated media content. The newly generated media content may be uploaded in one or both of an original resolution or a resolution that may be optimized for uploading to the web based server . The memory card may be operable to store the received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification.

In operation when a new photo is captured or a new video is recorded by the wireless device the memory card in the wireless device may automatically without user input run an application to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via an open wireless connection . The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks login credentials for the web based server and or the upload token for the web based sever . If the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks the wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device capable of handling one or more cellular communication protocols.

In accordance with an embodiment Bluetooth wireless protocol may be used to provide short range peer to peer connections between the mobile device and the Bluetooth radio in the wireless device . A Bluetooth network may be made up of small subnets or piconets. A piconet may consist of two or more connected nodes sharing the same channel. Every piconet may have one master and at least one slave where slaves may use the master to communicate with each other. Two or more piconets that have a node in common may connect with each other to form a scatternet. A slave node in one piconet may be a master node in another piconet. The range of Bluetooth may be dependent on power and Bluetooth class which may be typically of the order of 10 200 feet for example.

In accordance with another embodiment the Wi Fi Direct wireless protocol may be used to provide short range peer to peer connections between the mobile device and the WLAN radio in the wireless device . The Wi Fi Direct protocol may have a maximum range of over 600 feet and speeds of up to 250 Mbps and may allow a mobile device to advertise itself as a combination of a software access point and a peer. A mobile device with Wi Fi Direct may have a peer to peer connection to the wireless device while having a cellular connection to a web based server . The Wi Fi Direct protocol may provide security with WPA2 encryption and Wi Fi Protection Setup WPS secure key handling. The mobile device may be operable to configure the wireless device to communicate in ad hoc mode and to use the same wireless network and channel when sharing information with each other. The NFC radio may be operable to support two way communication between the mobile device and the wireless device in close proximity similar to the WLAN radio and the Bluetooth radio .

The clock may be operable to time stamp the generated media content. The DSP may be operable to process the generated media content before uploading the generated media content to the web based server . For example the DSP may be operable to crop re size or modify a resolution of the generated media content.

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage the operations of the plurality of radios . The processor may be operable to configure the wireless device based on received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification. The received authentication credentials may enable the processor in the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server . The processor may be operable to dynamically enable and or disable the wireless device from broadcasting the unique identification to the mobile device to optimize a battery life of the wireless device .

The memory may comprise a ROM for program storage and generated media content and a RAM for running programs. In a representative embodiment the memory may be in the form of a removable memory card as described with respect to for example a SD memory card for storing generated media content. The memory may comprise functionality for running one or more APIs or a web based server for example. The web based server may comprise a URL that may link to an address for uploading newly generated media content. The newly generated media content may be uploaded in one or both of an original resolution or a resolution that may be optimized for uploading to the web based server . The memory may be operable to store the received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification.

The navigation module may be operable to tag generated media content with location information. The navigation module may provide latitude and longitude information. The navigation module may also convert the latitude longitude information to street addresses for maps. The location coordinates 3D orientation velocity and data time information may be included in the generated content coded in the filename of the content or stored and sent in a separate metafile or message that is associated with the content.

The cellular radio may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to transmit and or receive signals corresponding to one or more cellular communication protocols comprising one or more of CDMA GSM TDMA GPRS EDGE UMTS WCDMA OFDM TD SCDMA HSDPA and or LTE cellular communication protocols.

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to manage the operations of the plurality of radios . The processor may be operable to receive the server authentication credentials from the web based server . The processor may be operable to communicate the received server authentication credentials to the wireless device . The received server authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to the web based server . The processor may be operable to communicate a unique identification to the wireless device . The unique identification may enable newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever via the mobile device . The processor may detect the unique identification and extract the newly generated media content from the wireless device . The processor may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server .

The memory may comprise a ROM for program storage and generated media content and a RAM for running programs. The operating system interfaces the hardware with the user and manages resources. Input devices of the mobile device may include a keyboard and or a touch screen a microphone and a camera photo sensor for still pictures and video. Output devices of the mobile device may comprise a display a speaker and wired or wireless headsets. The mobile device may have a number of dedicated applications such as ad hoc social networking server based social networking email instant messenger chat SMS and or camera. The mobile device may have a browser that may browse information on the intranet Internet and download other applications from the network. A bus may link all these components with the processor and memory .

The navigation module may be operable to tag generated media content with location information. The navigation module may provide latitude and longitude information or some other coordinate system. The navigation module may also convert the latitude longitude information to street addresses for maps. The location coordinates 3D orientation velocity and data time information may be included in the generated content coded in the filename of the content or stored and sent in a separate metafile or message that is associated with the content. The content generated by applications such as email chat SMS social networking tools and or a camera may be complemented with location orientation velocity and date time information if the user member chooses to do so by setting the appropriate security preferences at the content level or at the application level. The mobile device may upload the geo tagged content for storage on networked geo tagged user content databases. Some of the user security preferences may be stored locally on the mobile device while others may be stored on user member profile databases that are accessible to networked servers that provide applications e.g. email chat social networking . If a member has disabled continuous position tracking but has enabled content tagging then the uploaded geo tagged content may be used to extract position and velocity information. The navigation module may indicate the location of the mobile device on a map and track the speed and direction of movement of the mobile device .

In step the wireless device may be switched ON and or Wi Fi may be activated on the wireless device and the mobile device . In step the wireless device may be operable to use a unique wireless device name to broadcast itself as a device capable of auto configuration remotely via Wi Fi. In step one of the mobile device or the wireless device may be operable to detect the other device with the unique wireless device name automatically and a network connection for example a peer to peer connection may be established between the mobile device and the wireless device . Notwithstanding the disclosure is not necessarily so limited and the mobile device may upon request by a user search for the wireless device and detect the wireless device with the unique wireless device name without limiting the scope of the disclosure.

In step the mobile device may be operable to request server authentication credentials from the web based server . In step the mobile device may be operable to receive server authentication credentials for configuring the wireless device from the web based server . The received server authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to the web based server via the mobile device if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server directly via the wireless connection . The received server authentication credentials may comprise one or both of login credentials for the web based server and or an upload token for the web based sever . The mobile device may be operable to utilize the received upload token to identify a specific user account for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server . The received upload token may be generated based on a hash operation of a user s authentication credentials and a date for example. The received upload token for the web based server may expire after a pre determined period of time.

In step the mobile device may be operable to communicate the received server authentication credentials to the wireless device via a communication protocol. The communicated server authentication credentials may be encrypted by the mobile device . In step the mobile device may be operable to communicate a list of authorized wireless networks and wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks to the wireless device via a communication protocol.

In step the mobile device may be operable to communicate a unique identification to the wireless device via a communication protocol. The unique identification may enable newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever . The unique identification may comprise credentials for a particular wireless network to be used by the wireless device for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device .

In step the wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from the mobile device . The received authentication credentials may comprise login credentials for the web based server the upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification. The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server via the mobile device if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server directly using wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more authorized wireless networks. The wireless device may no longer advertise itself using the unique wireless device name. Control then passes to end step .

Notwithstanding the disclosure may not be so limited and the mobile device may upon request by a user search for and detect the wireless device with the unique wireless device name and remotely request the wireless device to enter into a configuration mode without limiting the scope of the disclosure. Alternatively the wireless device may upon request by a user search for and detect the mobile device and request the mobile device to enter into a configuration mode without limiting the scope of the disclosure.

In step new media content is generated by the wireless device . In step it may be determined whether the wireless device is able to connect to the web based server directly. In instances where the wireless device is able to connect to the web based server directly control passes to step .

In step the wireless device may automatically without user input run an application for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server via the wireless connection . In step the wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the upload token for the web based sever . Control then passes to end step .

In instances where the wireless device is not able to connect to the web based server directly control passes to step . In step the wireless device may broadcast automatically without user input the unique identification to the mobile device indicating the generation of new media content that may need to be uploaded to the web based server . In step the mobile device may be operable to detect the unique identification from the wireless device and establish a peer to peer connection with the wireless device . In step the mobile device may extract the newly generated media content from the wireless device . In step the wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device using one or more cellular communication protocols. Control then passes to end step .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a method and system for remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a web based server may comprise a network that comprises a wireless device and one or more mobile devices . The wireless device may be operable to communicate with the one or more mobile devices in either a peer to peer ad hoc wireless mode or an infrastructure mode. The wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from one or more mobile devices . The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server via one or more mobile devices if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks. A unique identification may be communicated automatically without user input to the one or more mobile devices when the media content is newly generated by the wireless device . The unique identification may enable the newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever . The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the one or more mobile devices if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks.

The received authentication credentials may comprise one or more of login credentials for the web based server an upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or the unique identification. The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks. The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via one or more mobile devices capable of handling one or more cellular communication protocols if the wireless device is unable to connect to the web based server using the wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks.

The wireless device may be capable of handling one or more wireless communication protocols comprising one or more of a WLAN communication protocol a Bluetooth communication protocol and or a Near Field Communications NFC communication protocol. The wireless device may be operable to dynamically enable and or disable itself from communicating the unique identification to the one or more mobile devices to optimize a battery life of the wireless device . The unique identification may comprise credentials for a particular wireless network to be used by the wireless device for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device .

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the wireless device may be configured or authorized based on received authentication credentials from one or more mobile devices . The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server . The wireless device may be operable to upload automatically without user input the media content to the web based server using the received authentication credentials when the media content is generated by the wireless device . The received authentication credentials may comprise one or more of login credentials for the web based server an upload token for the web based sever a list of authorized wireless networks wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks and or a unique identification indicating the generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever .

The wireless device and or the mobile device may be operable to utilize the received upload token to identify a specific user account for uploading the generated media content to the web based server . The received upload token for the web based server may expire after a pre determined period of time.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a method and system for remotely configuring a wireless device and uploading media to a web based server may comprise a network . The network may comprise a mobile device and one or more wireless devices . The mobile device may be operable to receive server authentication credentials for configuring or authorizing the one or more wireless devices from a web based server . The received server authentication credentials may enable one or more wireless devices to upload media content to the web based server via the mobile device . The mobile device may be operable to communicate the received server authentication credentials and a unique identification to the one or more wireless devices . The unique identification may enable newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever . The mobile device may detect the unique identification and the newly generated media content from the one or more wireless devices . The mobile device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server .

The received server authentication credentials may comprise one or both of login credentials for the web based server and or an upload token for the web based sever . The mobile device may be operable to utilize the received upload token to identify a specific user account for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server . The received upload token for the web based server may expire after a pre determined period of time. The mobile device may be operable to communicate a list of authorized wireless networks and wireless network credentials corresponding to one or more of the authorized wireless networks to the one or more wireless devices . The mobile device may be capable of handling one or more cellular communication protocols comprising one or more of CDMA GSM TDMA GPRS EDGE UMTS WCDMA OFDM TD SCDMA HSDPA and or LTE cellular communication protocols. The unique identification may comprise credentials for a particular wireless network to be used by the one or more wireless devices for uploading the newly generated media content to the web based server via the mobile device . The mobile device may be operable to communicate with the one or more wireless devices in one of a peer to peer ad hoc wireless mode and an infrastructure mode for example.

Other embodiments of the invention may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps comprising a network that comprises a wireless device and one or more mobile devices. The wireless device may be configured based on received authentication credentials from one or more mobile devices. The received authentication credentials may enable the wireless device to upload media content to a web based server via one or more mobile devices. A unique identification may be communicated automatically without user input to the one or more mobile devices when the media content is newly generated by the wireless device. The unique identification may enable the newly generated media content to be uploaded to the web based sever. The wireless device may be operable to upload the newly generated media content to the web based server via the one or more mobile devices.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements may be spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein may be suited. A combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed may control the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention may be realized in hardware that comprises a portion of an integrated circuit that also performs other functions.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

