---

title: Setting up network parameters after an idle handoff of an access terminal in a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, an access terminal detects that the access network has completed an idle handoff to a new access network (e.g., a new base station of a cellular network, etc.). The access terminal begins an idle handoff timer with a given expiration period in response to the detection. The access terminal eventually determines that the idle handoff timer has expired. In response to the expiration determination and before the access terminal is paged in the new access network, the access terminal sends at least one data packet to request set-up of network parameters for the access terminal within the new access network that are sufficient to permit the access terminal to receive session announcement messages within the new access network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420500&OS=09420500&RS=09420500
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09420500
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120905
---
Embodiments relate to managing setting up network parameters after an idle handoff of an access terminal in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In an embodiment an access terminal detects that the access network has completed an idle handoff to a new access network e.g. a new base station of a cellular network etc. . The access terminal begins an idle handoff timer with a given expiration period in response to the detection. The access terminal eventually determines that the idle handoff timer has expired. In response to the expiration determination and before the access terminal is paged in the new access network the access terminal sends at least one data packet to request set up of network parameters for the access terminal within the new access network that are sufficient to permit the access terminal to receive session announcement messages within the new access network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

UEs and connect to the RAN at a portion served by a first packet data network end point e.g. which may correspond to SGSN GGSN PDSN a home agent HA a foreign agent FA PGW SGW in LTE etc. . The first packet data network end point in turn connects via the routing unit and through the routing unit to the Internet . Through the Internet the UEs and can connect to an application server that is configured to provide one or more Internet based services e.g. streaming video web browsing etc. . Also through the Internet UEs and can connect to one or more of proxy servers . . . N . The proxy servers . . . N will be described in more detail below. Generally each of the proxy servers . . . N functions as a gateway between UEs . . . N and servers that provide Internet based services such as the application server . UEs and . . . N connect to the Internet via a different air interface such as a WiFi or IEEE 802.11 a b g n interface via a local wireless access point or hotspot. UE connects directly to the Internet via a wired connection e.g. a LAN or Ethernet connection and through the Internet can then connect to any of the system components described above.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet and or laptop PC. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies or transport mechanisms such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

An idle handoff between different access networks for a given UE can affect the paging success rate of pages directed to that UE. As used herein idle handoffs correspond to handoffs that occur for an idle UE i.e. a UE that is powered on but does not have an traffic channel TCH on which the UE is engaged in an active communication session. For example some access networks are configured not to send downlink data to its idle UEs until after a session negotiation procedure is conducted. The session negotiation procedure which establishes network parameters for a particular idle UE for use within a new access network is conventionally initiated in response to an uplink packet transmission e.g. carrying a dummy packet that prompts network parameter negotiation or set up from that idle UE in the new access network. The uplink packet transmission to initiate the network parameter negotiation is conventionally triggered either on a periodic basis or in response to a page from the new access network. This conventional procedure is described below with respect to .

At the given UE determines whether to initiate an idle handoff to a different access network e.g. based on an evaluation of the relevant signal strengths of pilot signals from nearby access networks based on an evaluation of backhaul performance expectations from nearby access networks etc. . If the given UE determines not to initiate the idle handoff to a different access network at the process returns to and the given UE remains connected to the first access network while periodically transmitting packets in accordance with the expiration periods of the packet transmission timer. Otherwise the given UE initiates an idle handoff to a second access network . In an example the first and second access networks can correspond to different serving areas of a larger network that share a single radio access technology RAT such as different cells or sectors different subnets etc. Alternatively the first and second access networks can correspond to distinct networks that serve UEs via different RATs such as WiFi 3G 4G satellite etc.

During and after the given UE s idle handoff from the first access network to the second access network the given UE continues to run the packet transmission timer . At the next expiration of the packet transmission timer the given UE is scheduled to transmit a reverse link packet in its current serving access network to facilitate network parameters for the given UE to be established or maintained.

In before the given UE transmits the reverse link packet to initiate the network parameter negotiation with the second access network based on the expiration of the packet transmission timer assume that data arrives at the second access network for transmission to the given UE and that the second access network pages the given UE . For example the data to be transmitted to the given UE can correspond to an announce message for a communication session e.g. such as a VoIP session . Because the given UE has not yet established network parameters within the second access network the given UE transmits a packet in response to the page message to set up the network parameters in the second access network and the packet transmission of prompts the second access network to initiate a network parameter negotiation that results in the given UE being assigned network parameters for the second access network .

At this point after the network parameter negotiation of the data arriving from can now be transmitted to the given UE . While not shown explicitly in after the given UE transmits the packet at the packet transmission timer is reset and the given UE will continue to transmit the packet each time the packet transmission timer expires while the given UE is connected to the second access network.

With respect to relying upon the packet transmission timer to control when the packet transmission of occurs following an idle handoff results in a period of time where the given UE does not have network parameters established in its new access network. Thus data to be transmitted to the given UE is delayed because the given UE s new access network needs to set up the network parameters in conjunction with paging the given UE. This delay can cause a call failure scenario for certain delay sensitive communication sessions such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions or Push to Transfer PTX sessions. Accordingly embodiments of the invention relate to more closely aligning the packet transmissions that trigger network parameter negotiation with idle handoffs while reducing the number of idle packet transmissions.

In a further example the given expiration period of the idle handoff timer can be dynamically determined based on network conditions. For example if network conditions are unstable such that ping ponging is occurring frequently the given expiration period can be configured to be longer than if network conditions are stable. Examples of parameters from which the network conditions can be inferred include but are not limited to radio frequency RF conditions signal strength conditions and or reaction times associated with one or more target access networks for an idle handoff. Generally if one or more of these parameters indicate that a network performance level is below a performance level threshold the given expiration period of the handoff timer can be increased or extended to account for the higher ping ponging probability. On the other hand if one or more of these parameters indicate that the network performance level is not below a performance level threshold the given expiration period of the idle handoff timer can be decreased to account for the lower ping ponging probability so that the network parameters can be established even more quickly following an idle handoff.

Referring to after completing an idle handoff off to a new access network the given UE determines whether the idle handoff timer is already running on the given UE . Generally in the process of the idle handoff timer is started or reset in response to a detection that the given UE has undergone an idle handoff so the idle handoff timer will already be running at if the given UE is ping ponging between access networks e.g. the given UE is moving back and forth between access networks or base stations in a relatively short span of time . If the idle handoff timer is determined not to be already running the idle handoff timer is started at . Otherwise if the idle handoff timer is determined to already be running at the idle handoff timer is reset at . Irrespective of whether the idle handoff timer is started or reset the idle handoff timer runs at .

While the idle handoff timer is running at the given UE monitors the idle handoff timer to determine whether or not the idle handoff timer has reached its given expiration period . If the given UE determines that the idle handoff timer has not yet reached its given expiration period at the idle handoff timer continues to run at . While not shown explicitly in if the given UE completes an idle handoff to yet another access network during before the idle handoff timer is determined to expire at the process will return to and the idle handoff timer will be reset at . As will be appreciated this can occur multiple times in a ping ping scenario. Otherwise if the given UE determines that the idle handoff timer has reached its given expiration period at the given UE transmits a packet e.g. a dummy packet within its new access network to initiate network parameter negotiation . After the network parameter negotiation is performed the given UE can be paged and can receive data e.g. session announce messages without delays associated with network parameter establishment as in . For example the downlink data that can be transmitted more quickly after an idle handoff using the process of can include announce messages for VoIP PTT and or PTX sessions such that the success rate for announcing VoIP PTT and or PTX sessions can be increased by more quickly triggering initiation of the network parameter negotiation e.g. because the delay between the transmission of the page message and the transmission of the subsequent announce message is reduced and certain delay sensitive calls such as VoIP calls automatically fail calls if call set up takes too long . Instead of automatically resetting the idle handoff timer after the expiration detection of the given UE waits for another idle handoff to another access network before the idle handoff timer is started again . As will be appreciated this reduces the number of packets that are transmitted by the given UE as compared to e.g. because relies upon a continuous periodic transmission of packets via the packet transmission timer while also ensuring that the given UE will establish network parameters relatively quickly upon completing an idle handoff into a new access network.

Referring to after the network parameter negotiation from A is completed in the second access network assume that data arrives at the second access network for transmission to the given UE A that the second access network pages the given UE A and that the given UE transmits a page response to the second access network A. For example the data to be transmitted to the given UE can correspond to an announce message for a communication session e.g. such as a VoIP session . At this point the given UE is no longer idle. Because the given UE has established network parameters within the second access network the second access network transmits the data to the given UE without having to wait for the network parameters to be set up A. As will be appreciated if the downlink data transmitted to the given UE is related to an announcement of a delay sensitive communication session the earlier transmission of the downlink data at A as compared to of can increase the success rate of the session.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

