---

title: Reconciling contact information between users
abstract: Methods, devices, and products utilize wireless-backup technologies to provide contact-reconciliation services with respect to sets of contacts stored on mobile devices. One embodiment of the inventions includes receiving an indication of an update event associated with a first set of contacts on a first mobile device, updating a remotely-stored copy of the first set of contacts, determining that a remotely-stored copy of a second set of contacts does not include a portion of contact information corresponding to the first mobile device, and updating the remotely-stored copy of the second set of contacts. In an embodiment, the remotely-stored copy of the second set of contacts is synchronized with the second set of contacts, thereby updating the second set of contacts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301111&OS=09301111&RS=09301111
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09301111
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 732 804 filed Mar. 26 2010 which is herein incorporated by reference in the entirety.

Embodiments of the technology are defined by the claims below not this summary. A high level overview of various aspects of the technology are provided here for that reason to provide an overview of the disclosure and to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description section. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. In brief and at a high level this disclosure describes among other things ways to reconcile contact information between two or more mobile communications devices. Utilization of aspects of the inventions described herein allows a network to utilize a wireless backup service to provide address book synchronization. In embodiments the network offers a reciprocal add service whereby when a first user adds a contact associated with a second user to his address book the second user can be notified that the first user added the second user to the first user s address book. The second user can be provided with an option to have contact information corresponding to the first user added to the second user s address book. The first user can be notified of each of these steps confirming to the first user that the correct contact information was added to the address book a benefit that is generally lacking in conventional mobile telephony service offerings. Another example of a new service that can be offered by utilizing aspects of the technology described herein is a forced removal service whereby the network can force removal of a contact from an address book such as for example in response to recapturing a phone number or assisting a user with a formal complaint regarding harassment by another user or the like.

The subject matter of the present technology is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to define the technology which is what the claims do. Rather the claimed subject matter might be embodied in other ways to include different components steps or combinations of components or steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step or other generic term might be used herein to connote different components or methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Throughout this disclosure several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present technology. The following is a list of these acronyms 

Embodiments of the technology may be embodied as among other things a method system or set of instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media. Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplate media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVDs holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

To provide context for the detailed description of the inventions below a brief overview of some embodiments of aspects of the inventions follows. To better illustrate the concepts consider an illustrative use case involving a first and a second fictitious user Annie and Bob. According to various embodiments of the invention upon initial or subsequent configuration of a mobile device on a mobile network Annie may be presented with options relating to a wireless backup service similar to embodiments of the services described herein. For example one option with which Annie may be presented is an option for opting in or out of the backup service. If Annie opts in various configurations may be available to her. Although a wireless backup service such as the one described herein can be utilized to backup any type of information the backup of contact information is the only aspect germane to the present inventions and therefore other types of information backup is not discussed. Annie may opt in to the backup service and specify that she wishes for a set of contacts referred to varyingly and interchangeably as set of contacts and address book associated with the mobile device to be backed up by the network. In so doing Annie has authorized participation in the wireless backup service. Accordingly the network maintains a copy of Annie s address book.

During this initial setup Annie can also be presented with an option for participating in a contact reconciliation service e.g. reciprocal add services forced removal services etc. described herein. Suppose that Annie subscribes to this service. In embodiments as part of the subscription process Annie can set preferences and permissions. In some embodiments this process can be a stand alone process handled by equipment and software so dedicated. In other embodiments this process might be a part of an overall phone set up process portions or all of which can be handled by a device management server which is not illustrated herein as device management is well known in the art.

In embodiments Annie can set any number of different types of preferences such as for example how much of her contact information to expose to the network and thus other users what types of contact information to expose what types of other user s contact information to acquire during reciprocal add processing. For example Annie might not ever use her mobile device for sending e mail or for participating in PTT communications in which case Annie might not want to save e mail addresses and UFMIDs. Other types of preferences that Annie can set in embodiments include synchronization options and notification settings. For example in some embodiments Annie can specify whether she wishes for synchronization to occur automatically periodically in response to certain types of events e.g. update events in response to a request from Annie in response to a request from network administrators and the like. Exemplary notification settings include triggers for notifications e.g. specifying what types of events should result in a notification to Annie types of communication vehicles for notifications e.g. SMS MMS e mail voicemail etc. and the like. Furthermore in various embodiments Annie can set various types of permissions that allow her to manage the dissemination of her contact information such as for example by restricting exposure of her contact information to certain people groups of people situations and the like. It will be appreciated by those aware of the art that any number of other configurations settings preferences permissions and the like can be managed during such a set up process.

Additionally for the purposes of this discussion it will be assumed that Bob has also subscribed to a similar service through the same or a different mobile network. In any case it is assumed for the functionality of the inventions described herein that one or more of the network components discussed is capable of accessing contact information corresponding to Bob and is capable of updating a remotely stored copy of Bob s address book and causing such updates to be synchronized with the address book stored on Bob s mobile device. In some embodiments the network can perform these actions directly while in other cases the network can cooperate with components of Bob s home network to achieve the functionality described herein.

Continuing with the example above during or subsequent to the subscription process an initial check can be performed to determine if any other mobile devices whose address books are backed up on the network or are otherwise accessible to components of the network have associated address books that include a contact corresponding to Annie. Of course if Annie is setting up a new mobile device with a new number the network likely will not identify any such mobile devices. However if Annie is updating preferences subscribing to a new service using an established device setting up a new device having an old phone number or the like the system can by searching the backup store identify one or more additional mobile devices having address books with contacts corresponding to Annie in them. Upon identifying these mobile devices in some embodiments the system can notify Annie of the results of the search and provide Annie options for having contact information corresponding to the users of those mobile devices added to Annie s address book. In embodiments Annie can during the reciprocal add conversation with the network specify the types of contact information to acquire the users whose contact information should be acquired and the like.

Now suppose that Bob and Annie meet and wish to speak with each other again in the future. As is a common scenario today Annie may hand her mobile device to Bob and invite Bob to enter his phone number after which Annie will input a name which need not necessarily be Bob s name but rather is some identifier that Annie chooses to use to identify Bob in her address book and save the name and phone number pair as a contact in her address book. In other scenarios Bob may tell Annie his phone number while she enters it into her device Annie may write down Bob s phone number and enter it into her device later and the like so long as Annie enters some contact information e.g. phone number e mail address etc. corresponding to Bob to create a contact in her address book. From that time on as is also typical today Annie may communicate with Bob any number of times simply by searching for the name that she entered for the contact selecting the contact and in embodiments selecting a mode of communication without ever seeing Bob s phone number again.

Assuming that Bob subscribes to a contact reconciliation service as well Bob receives a notification from the network that indicates that Annie added at least a portion of Bob s contact information to her address book. In embodiments Bob can be provided with an inquiry as to whether any portion of Annie s contact information to the extent that her contact information is available to Bob should be added to Bob s address book. In some embodiments this inquiry can be sent to Bob as a mobile message e.g. an SMS message an MMS message an e mail etc. . Other forms of communication can be used as well. Bob can respond to the inquiry to either allow or prevent the addition of Annie s contact information to Bob s address book. In some embodiments Bob can respond by sending a mobile message e.g. replying back to the network with an indication of his response to the inquiry. In another embodiment if Bob s device is Web enabled the network can send Bob a mobile message containing a link to a Web page hosted by a WAP server. Upon selecting that link a WAP browser on Bob s device interacts with the WAP server to navigate the reciprocal add process. That is the WAP server can provide a user interface to Bob that walks Bob through the process of allowing additions and deletions to a remotely stored copy of his address book and the synchronizing of that copy with the address book on his device. In embodiments the WAP server can be adapted to batch reciprocal add requests removal requests notifications and the like so that they can be managed during Bob s interaction with the WAP server.

Upon receiving a positive response to the inquiry from Bob the network updates the remotely stored copy of Bob s address book to include the desired contact information corresponding to Annie. Once updated the remotely stored copy of Bob s address book can be synchronized with the address book residing on Bob s device. Upon successful completion of any one or more of these actions notifications can similarly be sent to Annie informing her that Bob has added her to his phone book and confirming that Annie has entered a correct phone number for Bob.

Additional functionalities as described in more detail below can be provided to Annie and Bob. For example in one embodiment Annie and Bob might have PTT enabled devices that can engage in instant connect communications over a network such as for example an iDEN network. In this case Annie might have a phone number for Bob but not an instant connect identifier e.g. UFMID for him. Upon placing a voice phone call from Annie s device to Bob s device Annie can cause a reciprocal add procedure to be invoked. The network is capable of recognizing that Annie s mobile device and Bob s mobile device are both PTT enabled and in some cases might even determine that Annie and Bob are physically located in a particular zone or the like.

Assuming that Annie s and Bob s preferences and permissions allow it the network compares the address books associated with Annie and Bob and determines that while Annie s address book includes a contact corresponding to Bob that contact doesn t include a UFMID corresponding to Bob s mobile device. Accordingly the network can send Annie a notification that includes an inquiry as to whether Bob s UFMID discoverable by the network should be added to Annie s address book. Upon receiving a positive response from Annie Bob s UFMID can be added to the remotely stored copy of Annie s address book and synchronized with her device as described herein. In some embodiments the network can also identify other remotely stored copies of address books associated with other mobile devices to identify other users in the network geographical location user group zone or the like and thereby perform reciprocal add procedures with respect to those other devices.

Another exemplary functionality enabled by embodiments of aspects of the inventions is a forced removal service. In one embodiment the network can force removal of contact information corresponding to a user whose user device is no longer active on the network e.g. the account has been canceled and the phone number recaptured by the network . In this embodiment for instance if Bob fails to pay his bill the network might cancel his mobile communications service and recapture e.g. retire his phone number and UFMID. Upon doing so a notification of the recapture is provided to a contact reconciler which searches the database of backed up address books to identify those address books that include contacts having contact information e.g. a phone number and UFMID corresponding to Bob s mobile device. The reconciler deletes the phone number and UFMID from each contact that includes one or the other and these updates are synchronized to the associated devices.

In other embodiments a forced removal process can be initiated in response to a request by a user or other entity. For example suppose that Bob begins calling Annie often and at inappropriate times refusing Annie s requests to stop. Annie can in embodiments file a formal complaint with her mobile communications service provider who can force a removal of Annie s contact information from the remotely stored copy of Bob s address book even without notifying Bob. Upon synchronizing the update with Bob s mobile device Bob no longer would be able to call Annie using a contact in his address book. This might be particularly effective in the case in which Bob has not otherwise memorized or recorded contact information corresponding to Annie.

Turning now to a block diagram of an illustrative mobile computing device mobile device is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . Although some components are shown in the singular they may be plural. For example mobile device might include multiple processors or multiple radios etc. As illustratively shown mobile device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples various components together including memory a processor a presentation component a radio input output ports input output components and a power supply .

Various memory components that memory might take the form of have been previously described. Thus further elaboration thereon is unnecessary here only to say that memory component can include any type of medium that is capable of storing information e.g. a database . A database can be any collection of information. In one embodiment memory includes a set of embodied computer executable instructions that when executed facilitate various aspects disclosed herein. These embodied instructions will variously be referred to as instructions or application for short.

Processor might actually be multiple processors that receive instructions and process them accordingly. Presentation component includes the likes of a display a speaker as well as other components that can present information such as a lamp LED or even lighted keyboards .

Radio represents a radio that facilitates communication with a wireless telecommunications network. Illustrative wireless telecommunications technologies include CDMA GPRS TDMA GSM and the like including what is known in the art as WiMax technology and also Long Term Evolution LTE . In some embodiments radio might also facilitate other types of wireless communications including Wi Fi communications Bluetooth communications and GIS communications.

Input output ports might take on a variety of forms. Illustrative input output ports include a USB jack stereo jack infrared port proprietary communications ports and the like. Input output components include items such as keyboards microphones touch screens and any other item usable to directly or indirectly input data into mobile device . Power supply includes items such as batteries fuel cells or any other component that can act as a power source to power mobile device .

Turning now to an illustrative network environment suitable for practicing embodiments of the inventions is provided. Network environment includes mobile devices and mobile networks and and network . According to various embodiments of the invention mobile devices and can communicate by way of mobile network with one another with other mobile devices and with computing devices not shown with land line telephones not shown and with any number of various entities. Similarly in some embodiments mobile devices and can communicate by way of mobile network and mobile device can communicate by way of network .

The exemplary network environment shown in is an example of one suitable network environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the inventions disclosed throughout this document. Neither should the exemplary network environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in various embodiments components of mobile networks and can be implemented in any number of configurations using any number of machines and the like.

In embodiments other arrangements and elements e.g. machines components interfaces functions orders servers databases etc. can be used in addition to or instead of those shown and some elements may be omitted altogether. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance various functions can be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

It should be understood by those aware of the art that each of these elements of the network environment is also scalable. That is for example network environment can include a large number of mobile devices. Additionally for example mobile networks and may actually each include a number of network elements and . Any or all of these network elements and may be implemented using any number of server modules devices machines and the like. In some embodiments mobile devices and communicate via a common network such as mobile network or and in other embodiments mobile devices and communicate via multiple networks and . In various embodiments mobile devices and can communicate with each other using cellular telephony e.g. CDMA mobile messaging instant connect services and the like.

As shown in mobile network includes a backup server a data store a contact reconciler a provisioning server a messaging service and a WAP server . In various embodiments mobile network can include additional components as well. Although each of the components and of mobile network are illustrated as being independent this depiction is intended for clarity and understanding and not to impose any requirement on the configuration of a mobile network suitable for implementation of embodiments of the inventions. That is for example in an embodiment contact reconciler may be integrated with backup server or one or more other components whether or not illustrated in . Additionally in embodiments mobile network may include more than one data store and the like.

As is further illustrated in mobile network includes a communication server and a data store . As with the exemplary depiction of mobile network discussed above this depiction is intended for clarity and understanding and not to impose any requirement on the configuration of a mobile network suitable for implementation of embodiments of the inventions. Mobile networks and can be any type of mobile networks using any type of suitable communication protocol. Illustrative protocols that can be utilized in connection with embodiments of the present invention include CDMA EDGE EV DO GPRS GSM iDEN UMTS Wi Fi WiMAX and the like. In an embodiment mobile network includes for example both CDMA and iDEN services and may in embodiments include a communication server . In other embodiments mobile network can be associated with mobile network and can include instant connect services as described more fully below for users of mobile network . Additionally although mobile network is illustrated as including only one server communication server it should be understood that mobile network can include any number of additional servers and services such as full duplex voice communications any number of push to x applications data services multimedia services e.g. IMS subsystems etc. and the like.

With continued reference to network can in embodiments of the inventions be any type of network such as for example the Internet a LAN a WAN a wireless LAN WLAN a mobile network MN a PTSN or the like. In embodiments any combination of mobile devices and can communicate over network . In some embodiments for example mobile devices and can communicate via mobile network over network to communicate with mobile device and further through network to interact with mobile devices and . In other embodiments mobile devices and can communicate via network with WAP server . It will be readily appreciated that any number of other communications devices and the like may be facilitated using an implementation in accordance with variations of the illustrative network environment .

In embodiments of the inventions mobile devices and can be any kind of mobile communications device that includes radio equipment that facilitates the transmission of wireless communication signals to and from mobile devices and for instance over mobile networks and . Radio equipment can facilitate wireless communications between mobile device and and a local regional national or even global telecommunications network. According to various embodiments of the invention mobile devices and include computer readable media on which is embodied computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor disposed within mobile device and cause mobile device and to perform various methods tasks functions and the like such as the illustrative methods tasks and functions described herein.

In embodiments mobile device and can be a mobile phone a PDA a smart phone a laptop computing device a mobile computer and the like. Mobile devices and are capable of transmitting and or receiving one or more forms of communications. Examples of communications that can be transmitted and or received include voice calls text messages multimedia messages e mails calendar updates task reminders push to x interactions e.g. push to talk PTT push to video PTV push to locate PTL etc. and the like.

As illustrated in mobile device includes a set of contacts . In embodiments the set of contacts may be referred to for example as an address book. The set of contacts includes one or more contacts although if there are no contacts in the set of contacts the application may still exist but will have memory allocated for storing contacts. As the term is used herein a contact is an entry in a set of contacts such as for example an address book. A contact can include any type of contact information. Contact information is any information associated with a contact such as for example a name an alias a phone number an address a UFMID an e mail address a fax number and the like.

In embodiments a set of contacts stores contact information in a database for retrieval by the user of mobile device . The user may be for example a person an institution a business or any other entity. The user can often search the set of contacts for a name phone number or other contact information. Once the user obtains the desired information the user may utilize the contact information for a variety of purposes such as for example communicating with another user of the network or some other network or . It should be appreciated by those aware of the relevant disciplines that the set of contacts can reside entirely on a mobile device or can be provided as a network service by mobile network in which case the set of contacts resides in a data store on the network . In some embodiments portions of the set of contacts can be stored on the mobile device while other portions can be stored on the network . In still further embodiments a set of contacts may reside on a mobile device while a copy of the set of contacts is maintained in a data store on the network as a backup. In this latter embodiment a copy of the set of contacts is retrieved for backing up by a backup server located on the network .

Backup server is equipped with hardware and logic e.g. a processor computer readable media and computer executable instructions stored on the computer readable media that allows for wireless backup of information stored on any of the mobile devices and that subscribe to an associated backup service. In various embodiments backup server retrieves information e.g. a set of contacts from a mobile device and stores a copy of the set of contacts in a data store .

Data store could be combined with other data stores or could be distributed and or integrated into one or more other entities whether or not shown. Data store can also take various forms. For instance a data store could be a database a database cluster a list of data a table of data or a more complex relational database or directory structure stored in a computer readable medium such as computer memory or magnetic or optical disk drives and the like. In an embodiment data store can include a backup database for storing copies of sets of contacts a profiles database for storing user profiles a preferences database for storing user preferences a permissions database for storing user permissions and the like. Of course any combination arrangement or configuration of these and other storage components are contemplated as falling within the ambit of the present technology.

Backup server can be equipped with any number of functions for handling information stored in data store . Examples of such functions include without limitation managing searching indexing communicating referencing and the like. In some embodiments backup server is integrated with contact reconciler or some other network component whether or not shown. In other embodiments backup server is a distinct entity. According to various embodiments of the present inventions backup server is configured to detect an occurrence of an update event and provide an indication of that occurrence to contact reconciler . As used herein an update event includes any event associated with a user mobile device network account service or the like that triggers initiation of at least some aspects of the reconciliation processes and services described herein.

Contact reconciler initiates contact reconciliation services such as for example reciprocal add services forced removal services and the like in response to receiving an indication of an occurrence of an update event. In embodiments contact reconciler can be embodied as a server a program module a function an application an API or the like. In embodiments contact reconciler can be integrated with any combination of other network components such as for example backup server . In some embodiments contact reconciler is a distinct function or server. Contact reconciler is capable of initiating the activities described herein in response to receiving an indication of an occurrence of an update event. In some embodiments contact reconciler includes technology for monitoring network events and determining when an event constitutes an update event. In other embodiments backup server or some other component monitors events and provides notifications to reconciler .

Contact reconciler accesses preferences permissions and other settings information associated with mobile devices and responsive to an occurrence of an update event to determine whether the mobile devices and subscribe to contact reconciliation services and to ascertain the constraints thereof as illustrated in the discussions herein. To the extent authorized by users of mobile devices and contact reconciler is adapted to reference remotely stored copies of sets of contacts which may for instance be stored in data store . In embodiments contact reconciler can perform any number of operations with respect to information in data store such as for example searching indexing sorting copying deleting adding and the like. In an embodiment contact reconciler interacts with another network component such as backup server to perform such operations.

With continued reference to contact reconciler is adapted to compare remotely stored copies of sets of contacts to determine whether contact information corresponding to a particular user is not included but is available. Accordingly contact reconciler can generate notifications selectable options and the like for inviting users to utilize contact reconciliation services. In embodiments contact reconciler is capable of updating contact information stored in a copy of a set of contacts of providing notifications to users. In some embodiments contact reconciler also can interact with WAP server to facilitate user guided contact reconciliation services. In other embodiments contact reconciler can perform any number of other functions as well. Furthermore in various embodiments contact reconciler provides updated information to provisioning server for synchronization with the corresponding mobile device.

Provisioning server receives updated contact information from contact reconciler and facilitates synchronizing the same with an associated mobile device. In embodiments provisioning server facilitates over the air OTA provisioning and configuration for mobile devices and depending on the particular configuration of the network environment mobile devices and such as for example by employing device management protocols like OMA DM which relies on technology such as SyncML for performing synchronization operations with mobile devices and . In embodiments provisioning server can be implemented on any number of computing devices distributed computing systems server banks and the like. In some embodiments provisioning server facilitates device configuration software upgrades contact information updates permissions and policies management functions and the like. Furthermore as explained previously provisioning server can be configured to allow users to specify preferences related to synchronization and other provisioning activities and the like.

Messaging service is equipped with hardware and logic to be able to host and manage mobile messaging communications and applications. A mobile message as used herein refers to a communicative message including e.g. text images audio and or video sent by or to a mobile device. Examples of mobile messages include without limitation electronic mail e mail messages short message service SMS messages multimedia messaging service MMS messages voice mail messages and the like. Messaging service includes software and transceivers configured to host mobile messages and messaging services. According to embodiments of the invention messaging service can be configured to transfer and receive mobile messages using any communications protocol such as for example TCP IP UDP and the like. In embodiments some mobile messages e.g. SMS MMS e mail etc. can be sent using the TCP IP protocol and in embodiments other types of messages e.g. voice mail messages can be sent using UDP.

According to embodiments of the invention contact reconciler communicates notifications inquiries URL links and the like to mobile devices and using a mobile messaging service . For example consider the example above in which Annie adds Bob s phone number to her address book. Upon updating the remotely stored copy of Annie s address book and determining that Bob s address book does not include contact information for Annie the contact reconciler can in embodiments communicate a mobile message e.g. SMS message MMS message etc. to Bob s mobile device to notify Bob that Annie has added Bob s phone number to her address book and to inquire whether Bob wishes for Annie s phone number to be added to his address book. Bob can initiate the reconciliation process e.g. instruct the network to add contact information corresponding to Annie to Bob s address book by replying with a mobile message. These communications are according to embodiments enabled by messaging service . In an embodiment a mobile message can include a URL or link to a Web page such as for example a Web page provided by WAP server .

WAP server utilizes wireless application protocol WAP to enable Internet access by mobile devices and . As is further discussed below with reference to WAP server provides a Web page that facilitates performance of various aspects of the methods and processes described herein. For instance in an embodiment upon updating a remotely stored copy of a first set of contacts which is associated with a first user s mobile device contact reconciler sends a notification to a second mobile device so as to inform the user associated with the second mobile device that the remotely stored copy of the first set of contacts has been updated. In embodiments the notification can also include a link e.g. a hyperlink or other link to a URL etc. that upon selection by the second user directs the second user to a Web page where the second user can walk through the process of adding contact information to a remotely stored second set of contacts associated with the second mobile device. In embodiments the notification can be a mobile message e.g. SMS MMS e mail etc. that includes some text informing the second user of the update to the first set of contacts and that further includes a link to the Web page. Upon a user s selection of the link the mobile device is redirected to the Web page where the user can interact with a user interface provided by WAP server to navigate a contact reconciliation process.

With continued reference to and to mobile network in particular communication server is equipped with hardware and logic to be able to set up media communications with between any of mobile devices and so as to allow users of the mobile devices and to communicate with each other. As such communication server may be programmed to engage in signaling communications according to SIP or another designated protocol in order to set up a conference between each participating mobile device and . In embodiments communication server may be programmed to receive and send media streams according to RTP or another designated protocol. In embodiments communication server can be a discrete entity such as a multipoint conference unit MCU . In other embodiments communication server can include a number of components such as for example i a SIP user agent application to set up communication sessions ii an RTP application to facilitate sending and receiving real time media and iii bridging logic to bridge together sessions between multiple users so that the users can communicate with each other. Other arrangements as known in the art are possible as well.

Communication server may use packet based media conferencing to provide an instant connect service where a user of one mobile device can readily initiate a real time media conference with one or more designated target users of other mobile devices. The initiating user may simply select a contact or contacts corresponding to a target user or group from a set of contacts stored on the user s mobile device and then press an instant connect button on the user s mobile device. The user s device would responsively signal to the communication server and cause the server to initiate a conference between the initiating user and the selected user or group. This sort of service is referred to as instant connect because it strives to provide a quick connection between two or more users in contrast for example to a telephone service where a user dials a telephone number of a party and waits for a circuit connection to be established with that party.

An example of an instant connect service is commonly known as push to talk PTT . In a PTT system some or all of mobile stations of a conference are likely to be wireless devices that are equipped to establish wireless packet data connectivity and in some cases to engage in voice over packet VoP communication. Alternatively some or all of the mobile devices could be other sorts of devices such as for example multimedia personal computers or Ethernet telephones that can establish packet data connectivity and engage in VoP communication through landline connections. Further each device could be equipped with a PTT button or other mechanism that a user can engage in order to initiate a PTT session or to request the floor during an ongoing session. Additional examples of instant connect services include instant video communication push to view PTV and other sorts of instant communications generally known as push to x PTX .

In embodiments of the invention communication server interacts with data store in which it stores instant connect identifiers corresponding to mobile devices and . As used herein an instant connect identifier includes any identifier address destination and the like that can be used to establish an instant connect service communication between two or more mobile devices. For instance in an embodiment an instant connect identifier can be an urban fleet market identifier UFMID . Communication server can use the instant connect identifiers to facilitate establishment of communication between the devices. In some embodiments data store can be integrated with another data store such as for example data store .

In embodiments a set of contacts associated with a mobile device may include a subset of instant connect identifiers. In other embodiments instant connect identifiers are portions of contact information corresponding to users and stored within contacts in the set of contacts. In other embodiments mobile devices may maintain separate sets of instant connect identifiers which are maintained independently from other sets of contacts. Accordingly in various embodiments data store may be a backup store managed by backup server while in other embodiments data store may be distinct and unique to an instant connect service and therefore managed by communication server .

Turning now to an illustrative implementation of the inventions is shown using a schematic block diagram. The illustrative implementation includes processes for reconciling contact information associated with mobile devices. As shown in the operating environment utilized in illustrative implementation includes mobile devices and backup server backup store contact reconciler provisioning server messaging service WAP server and data store . The illustrative implementation shown in is an example of one suitable implementation and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the inventions disclosed throughout this document. Neither should the illustrative implementation be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. Moreover for the purposes of the present discussion mobile devices and backup server contact reconciler provisioning server messaging service WAP server and data stores and are similar to the corresponding components described with reference to and therefore further elaboration is not necessary.

Mobile devices and are wireless communication devices adapted to receive communications and media over wireless networks e.g. mobile networks and may include any number of components features and aspects that are not shown in so as not to obscure a clear understanding of embodiments of the present inventions. Mobile devices and each include a set of contacts referred to generally by numerals and respectively. The set of contacts can and can include contact information annotations graphics audio video and any number of other types of content. In embodiments a set of contacts may be referred to as an address book a contact list a buddy list or the like. Each contact stored in the set of contacts and has contact information associated with it. Illustrative contact information can include for example names phone numbers e mail addresses URLs street addresses fax numbers UFMIDs and the like. In an embodiment the contact information can be inputted by a user retrieved from a communication downloaded from a website or other server or the like.

According to some embodiments the set of contacts and is stored on the mobile device and . In other embodiments the set of contacts can be stored on the network such as for example in the case of a network address book. In some embodiments a user might have locally stored contact information e.g. a set of contacts on the user s mobile device but also might utilize a network address book. The network address book in various embodiments can be associated with any number of different components of a mobile network.

In situations in which a network address book or other set of contacts maintained on the network is utilized the processes described herein would be similar with respect to updating the remotely stored with respect to the corresponding mobile device set of contacts but in some cases may not include synchronizing the remotely stored set of contacts with a set of contacts on the device and may not include the backup processes described herein. However other functionality would be similar such as for example receiving indications of update event occurrences updating a set of contacts notifying another user of the update event and inquiring whether the other user wishes for a set of contacts associated with the other user to be updated accordingly forcing contact information removal and the like.

An illustrative operation of an embodiment of the present invention can begin as indicated in at numeral with a user of mobile device updating e.g. adding deleting etc. contact information corresponding to a user of mobile device . As indicated at backup server retrieves a copy of the set of contacts which includes the updated portion of contact information corresponding to mobile device . Backup server stores the copy in backup store as indicated by numeral . In various embodiments of the inventions updating a set of contacts is an update event and accordingly backup server provides an indication of the occurrence of the update event to contact reconciler as illustrated at . In embodiments the indication includes the updated contact information while in other embodiments contact reconciler accesses backup store directly or through backup server to access the updated contact information .

As indicated at numeral contact reconciler references configuration settings and which are associated with mobile devices and respectively. As shown in the illustrative embodiment of configuration settings and include preferences and as well as permissions and . In some embodiments data store and or its contents can be integrated with backup store . In other embodiments configuration settings can be stored in a user or device profile in a profile database and the like. The particulars of the configuration settings and govern the nature of the remaining aspects of the illustrated process.

Subject to the configuration settings and contact reconciler provides a notification to mobile device as referenced by numeral . In embodiments the notification includes an indication that contact information corresponding to mobile device has been updated added deleted or the like. In embodiments notification includes an inquiry as to whether contact information corresponding to the user of mobile device should be added to mobile device . In embodiments notification can take the form of a mobile message the communication of which is facilitated by messaging service . Similarly a response to the inquiry can be communicated to contact reconciler via messaging service . In an embodiment notification includes a link to a web page hosted by WAP server such that upon selection of the link mobile device interacts with WAP server to navigate the contact reconciling service offerings by way of a UI provided WAP server . These interactions are referenced by numeral .

As shown at numeral contact information corresponding to mobile device is identified and subject to the conversation depicted at added to the stored copy of the set of contacts associated with mobile device . In other embodiments identified contact information is removed from the stored copy of the set of contacts associated with mobile device and in further embodiments other types of updates can be made.

As indicated by numerals and contact reconciler provides the updated copy of the set of contacts which now includes at least a portion of contact information corresponding to mobile device to provisioning server for synchronization with the set of contacts on mobile device . In embodiments contact reconciler provides a copy of the copy to provisioning server for synchronization while in other embodiments contact reconciler can interact with backup store and provisioning server in other manners to achieve synchronization such as for example by exposing an API to provisioning server allowing provisioning server to access backup store or the like. According to embodiments of the invention a user associated with mobile device can establish preferences with respect to synchronization as discussed previously.

In some embodiments as illustrated in provisioning server includes or is connected to and can access a database . In embodiments the database can be integrated with provisioning server can be separate from provisioning server and can take any number of various forms such as for example a database a cache and the like. According to various embodiments of the invention database can be used to store updated copies of sets of contacts. In this manner updates to sets of contacts can be batched and synchronized with the device in groups. In some embodiments the database can also include other device updates such as those utilized in managing the device and the like.

Furthermore as indicated by numeral some embodiments include providing mobile device with a notification that indicates the occurrence of the reciprocal add process just described confirmation of the accuracy of the contact information entered by the user of mobile device and or any other information. As with other notifications discussed herein notification can take any number of forms and can be subject to preferences and permissions established by the user of mobile device and in some embodiments by the user of mobile device . It should be appreciated by those aware of aspects of the art that the operation exemplified in is only one of many various configurations and arrangements of the components and actions performed thereby that are contemplated as falling within the ambit of the present inventions.

To recapitulate embodiments of the inventions have been disclosed in the context of computer readable media a communications device a network environment and methods for reconciling contact information between devices. Turning to a flow diagram is provided showing an illustrative method of reconciling information contained in a first set of contacts on a first mobile device with a second set of contacts on a second mobile device in response to an event associated with the first mobile device. At a first illustrative step step an indication of an occurrence of an update event associated with the first mobile device is received. In some embodiments the indication of an occurrence of an update event includes the actual update event itself while in other embodiments the indication does not include the actual update event. According to some embodiments the indication indicates that a new contact has been added to the first set of contacts and according to other embodiments the indication indicates that a contact has been removed from the first set of contacts. In further embodiments the indication indicates that a portion of contact information associated with the first mobile device is to be disassociated with the first mobile device such as for example upon recapture of a phone number by the network. Similarly according to various embodiments update events can include any number of types of events such as for example phone call initiations from one mobile device to another updates to sets of contacts residing on mobile devices and the like.

At a second illustrative step step a remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts is updated based on the update event. At a final illustrative step step the mobile network synchronizes the second set of contacts with the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts such that the second set of contacts is updated based on the update event. As previously explained embodiments of the inventions include providing a notification to the second mobile device to inform the second user of the update event. In some embodiments that notification includes a selectable option for allowing the stored copy of the second set of contents to be updated.

Turning now to another flow diagram is provided and shows an illustrative method of synchronizing contact information. At a first illustrative step step a copy of a first set of contacts is received from a first mobile device associated with a first user. According to various embodiments of the inventions each contact of the first set of contacts includes contact information. As explained above contact information can include names phone numbers e mail addresses UFMIDs and the like. At step the copy of the first set of contacts is stored in a database that is remote from the mobile devices.

At step a contact reconciler receives an indication that the first set of contacts has been updated to include a new contact. In embodiments the new contact corresponds to a second user having an associated second mobile device and the new contact includes contact information corresponding to the second user. At step the remotely stored copy of the first set of contacts is updated to include the new contact. In some embodiments the illustrative method includes providing a notification to the second mobile device to inform the second user of the update event. At step the contact reconciler references a remotely stored copy of a second set of contacts which is associated with the second user and as shown at step determines that the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts does not include a contact corresponding to the first user. In some embodiments the contact reconciler may instead determine that the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts does include a contact corresponding to the first user but that the contact does not include some portion of contact information corresponding to the first user that is available to be added to the second set of contacts.

At step the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts is updated to include a contact corresponding to the first user. In embodiments the illustrative method includes first providing a notification to the second mobile device to inform the second user of the update event. In some embodiments the notification includes a selectable option for allowing the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts to be updated. Upon a user selection of the option a positive response to an inquiry or other trigger the remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts is updated. At a final illustrative step step the network synchronizes the second set of contacts with the updated remotely stored copy of the second set of contacts such that the second set of contacts is updated to include the contact corresponding to the first user.

Turning to another flow diagram is provided and shows an illustrative method of reconciling contact information between a first mobile device that is associated with a first user having a corresponding set of first contact information and a second mobile device that is associated with a second user and a corresponding set of second contact information. At a first illustrative step step an indication is received that indicates that at least a portion of the first contact information has been added to the second mobile device. In embodiments a portion of contact information can refer for example to a phone number a UFMID an e mail address a name or the like.

At a step a network component such as a contact reconciler identifies the first mobile device by using the first contact information and at a final illustrative step step an inquiry is provided to the first mobile device asking whether at least a portion of the second set of contact information is to be added to the first mobile device. Of course upon a positive response to the inquiry one or more of the reconciliation processes described above are performed.

Turning to a flow diagram is provided and shows an illustrative method of reconciling contact information between mobile devices associated with an instant connect service. At a first illustrative step step a contact reconciler such as the contact reconcilers discussed previously with reference to determines that a first and a second mobile device are associated with an instant connect service. In embodiments the first mobile device has an associated first set of contacts and the second mobile device has an associated second set of contacts.

At step the contact reconciler searches a stored copy of the first set of contacts looking for contacts corresponding to additional mobile devices associated with the instant connect service. At step the contact reconciler identifies a third mobile device associated with the instant connect service that has a corresponding contact in the first set of contacts. In an embodiment the contact reconciler identifies the third mobile device by determining that the third mobile device has a corresponding instant connect identifier such as a UFMID. In other embodiments the contact reconciler identifies the third mobile device by performing a table lookout query or the like.

At step the contact reconciler determines that the contact information in the first set of contacts corresponding to the third device does not include an instant connect identifier. At step the contact reconciler retrieves an instant connect identifier corresponding to the third mobile device and at step the contact reconciler updates the stored copy of the first set of contacts to include the instant connect identifier corresponding to the third mobile device. At a final illustrative step step the contact reconciler synchronizes the second set of contacts with the updated stored second set of contacts.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the scope of the claims below. Embodiments of the technology have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this disclosure after and because of reading it. Alternative means of implementing the aforementioned can be completed without departing from the scope of the claims below. Certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims.

