---

title: Managing item queries
abstract: A network-based service may be provided for facilitating queries for a number of items, such as travel services. A user may submit a query including criteria for determining one or more relevant items. Based on the submitted query, the network-based service may present the user with information regarding the actions of other similar users of the network-based service, such as searches performed by the other users. Based on this information, the user may elect to supplement the current query to conform to the actions for other users. In some embodiments, actions by other users may be based at least in part on a category of the querying user. By presenting actions of similar users, a current user may be enabled to select the most relevant query terms for identifying a desired item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519678&OS=09519678&RS=09519678
owner: EXPEDIA, INC.
number: 09519678
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
Computing devices and computing networks are frequently employed by users to obtain information and to make purchases. For example a user may search for review and share information regarding items of interest from a network based information service using his or her personal computing device. In another example a user may purchase an item of interest from a network based retailer using his or her personal computing device. Furthermore network based services may enable a user to perform these task in the comfort of their home or office and at his or her own pace and convenience.

In some instances network based services may provide information regarding a variety of items offered from a variety of sources. For example a network based travel service may offer flights accommodations e.g. hotels bed and breakfasts hostels resorts etc. ground transportation car rentals taxis town cars trains shuttles etc. or other travel items from a variety of airlines accommodation providers rental companies etc. Further inventory of each item may be highly volatile such that the availability of any given travel item e.g. a specific flight or hotel room may be altered within a very short time period. In addition multiple items may be available that meet a user s criteria e.g. multiple flights or flight combinations to a given destination multiple hotel rooms within a given city etc. . However the search capabilities of a network based service may not be able to encapsulate all possible combinations of criteria and therefore may be unable to provide all relevant results to a user based on a given query. Moreover in some instances users may be unaware of additional or alternative criteria for locating items on the network based service.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure are directed to managing queries for items offered or provided via network based services. More specifically aspects of the present disclosure relate to facilitating the generation of new search queries based on a current query as well as on other queries or information submitted to a network based service. Illustratively a network based service may offer one or more items for acquisition purchase or booking. In one embodiment a network based service may correspond to a service offering travel items such as flights hotels or other accommodations ground transport etc. A user of the network based service may submit a query including criteria for selecting one or more relevant items e.g. a relevant flight hotel rental car etc. . Thereafter the service may return any available and relevant items. In addition the service may return information for facilitating supplementation expansion or replacement of the query. Such information may be generated for example based on other queries submitted to the network based service e.g. by other users based on previous acquisitions purchases or bookings of items on the network based service based on information regarding the querying user based on other additional or alternative information or any combination thereof.

Illustratively a user of a network based travel service e.g. a service that provides information regarding available travel items from one or more travel item providers may submit a query for a flight from City A to City B on a given date. Thereafter relevant flights may be returned to the user for selection. However in some instances the number of flights matching the user s criteria may be large and therefore the travel service may not be able to provide information regarding all relevant flights. Further in some instances even when a large number of relevant flights may be presented to the user the user may not desire to or be unable to locate a most preferred flight from within the presented flights. Accordingly it may be desirable to enable to user to further refine alter or replace the current query. For example a user may be presented with the option to view only non stop or direct flights. Alternatively a user may be presented with the option to view flights on a different date e.g. to obtain a lower total cost . In some embodiments presentation of additional or alternative query options may be in the form of recommendations or suggestions. In other embodiments presentation of query options may be in the form of a statement or assertion. For example a user may be notified that of 500 similar users who booked a flight from City A to City B on the given date 75 booked a non stop flight. Accordingly the user may be enabled to select the recommendation or assertion to further refine alter or replace the current query. For example by the selection of the above assertion the user may be enabled to view only non stop flights matching the user s criteria. Accordingly the user may be enabled to better select a relevant item from among a large number of potentially relevant items.

In other embodiments information provided to a user may enable the user to expand search results for available items. For example a user may again submit a query for a flight from City A to City B on a given date. However unbeknownst to the user a more desirable flight may be available from City A to City C on the given date e.g. where City C is very close to City B and available flights are less costly more direct less lengthy etc. . Because the user s query criteria did not include flights to City C the user may not initially be aware of these alternative flights. However other users of the travel service may have discovered and booked these alternative flights e.g. when searching for a flight from City A to City B . Therefore by presenting a querying user with information regarding the bookings of other users the querying user may be more able to ascertain the available of desirable travel items. For example in the instance described above a user may be presented with information that of customers who searched for a flight from City A to City B on the given date 82 booked a flight from City A to City C instead. By selecting such information e.g. as contained within an assertion or recommendation the user may be able to view available flights from City A to City C and determine whether those flights are in fact more desirable than those previously presented in the initial search query. Accordingly the user may be enabled to expand or replace an initial query based on information of other users of the travel service.

In some embodiments assertions may include additional information regarding items corresponding to the assertion. For example an assertion that a large proportion of travels booked a flight from City A to City C e.g. rather than City B may include an indication of the lowest or average cost of a flight from City A to City C. Still further in some embodiments cost information may be presented relative to costs of a current query. Illustratively a user may search for flights from City A to City B and the lowest returned flight may cost 250. In this instance an assertion may be presented that a large proportion of travelers initially searching for similar flights instead flew to City C. In addition the travel service may determine that flights from City A to City C during the requested period are available or were recently available for as low as 200. Accordingly the travel service may modify the assertion to reflect that up to 50 may be saved by traveling to an alternate destination e.g. City C .

In other embodiments assertions may be personalized to a particular user. For example assertions may include information regarding actions of one or more contacts e.g. contacts within the travel service contacts on a social networking system contacts of a mobile device or cellular telephone etc. . For example a traveler may search for flights from City A to City B and in return be presented with an assertion that a majority of their contacts instead traveled from City A to City C. In some instances assertions regarding contacts may be prioritized above other assertions such that a traveler is presented with assertions regarding the actions of contacts above or prior to being presented with assertions of general travelers.

As noted above assertions may be based on previous acquisitions purchases or bookings of items on the network based service based at least in part on information regarding the querying user based on other additional or alternative information or any combination thereof. For example in some embodiments assertions may be based on all other users conducting the same or similar query as a querying user. Illustratively where a user searches for flights from City A to City B on a given date presented assertions may be based on all queries e.g. queries by other users or prior queries by the current user for flights from City A to City B queries for flights from City A to City B on the given day or flights from City A to City B on a range of days e.g. around the given day on other similar days etc. . By analyzing these corresponding queries commonalities may be determined for inclusion in an assertion. For example in some embodiments the most frequent actions taken by customers during similar queries may be presented to a user. By way of illustration when analyzing the similar queries for flights from City A to City B a travel service may determine that 82 of users booked a non stop flight 55 of users booked a flight departing before 10 AM 40 of users booked a round trip flight and 10 of users booked a flight from City A to City C. Accordingly users may be enabled to modify or replace their current query with a query conforming to the above determined similarities. Illustratively upon seeing that 82 of users booked a non stop flight a querying user may elect to view only non stop flights. In some embodiments only the most significant information may be presented to a querying user. For example only the top 5 actions e.g. as determined by a percentage or numbers of users taking the action may be presented to a user. Alternatively only actions above a threshold number or percent of users may be presented e.g. actions taken by more than 35 of users making similar queries actions taken by more than 50 users making similar queries etc. .

In some embodiments multiple sets of relevant queries may be determined for the purposes of determining an assertion each with varying degrees of relevance with respect to a current query. For example queries for flights from City A to City B on Jan. 1 2012 may be more relevant than queries for flights from City A to City B on Dec. 1 through Feb. 1 2012 which may in turn be more relevant than queries from City A to City B in June of 2011. Each set of relevant queries may be associated with a number of actions taken be querying users which may be distinct among the query sets. For example for flights from City A to City B on Jan. 1 2012 60 of users may book a non stop flight while for flights from City A to City B in July of 2011 only 35 of users may have booked a non stop flight. In some embodiments actions from multiple sets of queries may each be presented to a user. In other embodiments actions from less relevant query sets may be presented to a user only when actions from more relevant query sets are not available.

Still further in some embodiments similar queries may be selected based on information associated with the querying user such as a query category. Illustratively a query may be placed into a number of categories such as business travel leisure travel family travel elite travel luxury travel economy travel etc. As will be described in more detail below a query category may be based on the user s current query or past queries the user s profile the user s past action on the travel service or other services or any combination thereof. For example a user with a Saturday night stay might be more likely to be classified as a leisure traveler while a user without a Saturday night stay may be more likely to be classified as a business traveler.

In instances where a query is determined to be of a specific category of queries assertions presented to the user may be determined based on actions of other queries corresponding to the category. For example where an elite level business traveler queries for flights from City A to City B the user may be presented with information specifying that of all elite level business travelers querying for similar flights 98 booked non stop flights. Similarly where a family leisure traveler queries for the same or similar flights the user may be presented with information specifying that of all family leisure travelers querying for the same or similar flights 25 booked non stop flights. By presenting information determined based on other similar users each user may be presented with assertions most relevant to their query.

By presentation of assertions reflecting activity of other users a querying user may be enabled to recreate such activities. For example an activity taken by a large proportion of similar users may indicate benefits of that activity which are not otherwise readily apparent. For example pricing for travel items may vary widely based on the date requested. Further the inventory of travel items may be extremely volatile and as such it may be difficult to maintain an up to date record of the lowest priced travel items within a given date. However many users submit multiple queries in order to locate such a low priced item. Accordingly by recording aspects of such past user activity via assertions future users may be enabled to recreate the activities of past users thereby increasing their changes of locating a desired travel item. In addition enabling users to recreate activities of past users may further reduce the need for a travel service to constantly analyze travel items in order to determine a most desired item. In effect the activities of users of a travel service may be more accurate in locating and identifying desirable travel items than typical methods of automated analysis.

Further because of a volatility of inventory recommendation of individual travel items may be difficult or undesirable. For example a specific flight may be available at a specific price to only a limited number of users. Accordingly by the time the specific flight is recommended to a user e.g. based on the price the price of the flight may have increased or the flight may no longer be available. However by re creation of the search which first located the specific flight e.g. by utilization of an assertion modifying a user s initial search a user may be more able to ascertain whether any other desirable flights are available. For example a first specific flight may no longer be available at a desired price but other flights may have since become available at or near the desired price. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may enable users of services offering volatile items to better locate and acquire items than traditional item recommendation techniques.

Though described herein with respect to specific types of travel services embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to any travel item including but not limited to flights accommodations other transportation activities tours travel insurance day trips or destination services. Moreover aspects of the present disclosure may be applied with respect to other item queries and should not be construed to be limited to travel services unless explicitly stated otherwise.

Moreover though illustrative examples are provided herein with regard to a specific user queries in some embodiments assertions may be provided based on an inferred user query or interest. For example user located in City A may search for hotels in City B. Based on such activity it may be inferred that a user would be interested in flights from City A to City B. Based on this inference assertions regarding a query for flights from City A to City B may be presented to the user. is a block diagram depicting an illustrative operating environment in which a network based travel service enables customers to browse search for and acquire travel items made available by third party providers or the operator of the travel service . As illustrated in the operating environment includes one or more reservation systems and one or more traveler computing devices in communication with a network based travel service via a network . A third party provider using a reservation system may make travel items or information regarding travel items available to the travel service via the network . The travel service may then make the travel items as well as other travel items available to traveler computer devices . Accordingly a prospective traveler using a traveler computing device may browse the travel items available from the travel service search travel items and acquire reserve or book one or more desired travel items.

A traveler computing device may be any computing device such as a laptop or tablet computer personal computer server personal digital assistant PDA hybrid PDA mobile phone mobile phone electronic book reader set top box camera digital media player and the like. The reservation systems and the traveler computing devices may communicate with the travel service via a network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. In the illustrated embodiment the network is the Internet. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The reservation systems may correspond to any systems or devices configured or enabled to allow booking reservation or acquisition of travel items. For example a reservations system may correspond to a centralized reservation system CRS a global distribution system GDS or any other system where multiple travel item providers such as airlines hotels car rental agencies cruise lines bus services etc. make travel items available for booking reservation and or purchase. In other embodiments a reservation system may correspond to a system provided by an individual travel item provider e.g. a specific airline hotel or hotel chain car rental agency cruise line bus service etc. . In general each reservation system may enable other network based devices such as devices of the travel service to request information regarding travel items e.g. availability price itinerary etc. to search travel items and to book acquire or reserve travel items. Operation of reservation systems is well known within the art and therefore will not be described in more detail herein.

In the illustrated embodiment the travel service is illustrated as a computer environment including several computer systems that are interconnected using one or more networks. More specifically the travel service may include a user interface module a reservation systems interface module a usage monitoring module a usage information data store an assertion discovery module a traveler profile data store and an assertion data store . However it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the travel service could have fewer or greater components than are illustrated in . In addition the travel service could include various Web services and or peer to peer network configurations. Additionally in some embodiments the travel service may be implemented by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment. Thus the depiction of the travel service in should be taken as illustrative and not limiting to the present disclosure.

The reservation systems interface module may facilitate interaction with the reservation systems including searching for relevant travel items retrieving information regarding travel items and acquiring travel items. In some embodiments multiple reservation systems interface modules may be provided each configured to interact with one or more specific reservation systems . For example a first reservation systems interface module may interact with an airline based reservation system while second reservation systems interface module may interact with a hotel based reservation system . Embodiments of systems and methods for interaction with reservation systems are described within U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 470 442 filed on May 21 2009 and entitled OPTIMIZED SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FINDING BEST FARE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The user interface module may facilitate searching browsing and acquisition e.g. by reservation booking etc. of travel items by travelers via traveler computing devices. In some embodiments the user interface module may include a web server for generation of webpages facilitating such searching browsing and acquisition. Examples of a user interfaces that may be generated by a user interface module will be described in more detail in below.

The user interface module may further be configured to store maintain and acquire information from a traveler profile data store . The user information data store may correspond to any persistent or substantially persistent data store such as one or more hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs or network attached storage devices NASs . The traveler profile data store may store information regarding users such as a user s name age address date of birth credit card information purchase history and travel reservations frequent flyer or rewards program information etc.

Still further the user interface module may interact with the usage monitoring module to store usage information of traveler computing devices regarding the travel service . For example the user interface module may transmit information regarding searching viewing and acquisition of travel items by travelers to the usage monitoring module . The usage monitoring module may transform or otherwise process the information for storage in a data store such as the usage information data store . Illustratively transformation of the usage information may include anonymization of usage information e.g. by removal of sensitive or personal information such as name address etc. or compression of usage information. As will be described in more detail below with respect to in some embodiments the usage monitoring module may further be configured to categorize usage information into a number of relevant categories. For example a first subset of usage information may be categorized as business activities while a second subset of usage information may be categorized as leisure activities. After processing of usage information the usage information along with any corresponding categorization information may be stored within the usage information data store . Similarly to the traveler profile data store described above the usage information data store may correspond to any persistent or substantially persistent data store such as one or more hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs or network attached storage devices NASs .

The travel service may further include an assertion discovery module configured to determine assertions relevant to a search query and to retrieve relevant assertions in response to such query. As will be described below these assertions may be determined based at least in part on usage information e.g. as stored within the usage information data store . Generated assertions may reflect relevant activities taken by other travelers of the travel service such as a type or class of travel item acquired or specific search terms utilized. For example an assertion may reflect that of travelers searching for flights from Miami Fla. to Cancun Mexico on Jul. 1 2013 60 flew on Airline A. Accordingly by reviewing the activities of other travelers a traveler searching for a flight according to the criteria described above may be enabled to discover queries utilized by other travelers and recreate such queries quickly. Because an activity taken by a significant number of similar travelers is likely also to benefit the querying traveler the presentation of assertions allowing re creation of the specific activity may be of benefit to end users.

After generation of assertions the assertion discovery module may store assertions for later retrieval such as in an assertion data store . Similarly to the data stores described above the assertion data store may correspond to any persistent or substantially persistent data store such as one or more hard disk drives HDDs solid state drives SSDs and network attached storage devices NASs .

Though not shown in in some embodiments the travel service may include additional or alternative components for interaction with one or more external services such as social network services. Illustratively such components may gather information identifying one or more contacts of the user e.g. for use in determining relevant assertions . Still further the travel service may include additional or alternative components to determine contacts of the user based at least in part on an address book of the traveler computing device. Because interaction with social networking systems and address books of traveler s devices are well known within the art these interactions will not be discussed in detail herein.

With reference to illustrative interactions for providing assertions based on a query including search criteria will be described. Specifically with respect to an illustrative interaction for submission of a search queries by traveler computing devices to the travel service and for categorization of such search queries by the usage monitoring module will be described. With respect to an illustrative interaction for generation of assertions based on submitted search queries as well as other user activity e.g. acquisition reservation or booking of travel items will be described. With respect to an illustrative interaction for providing relevant assertions to a traveler computing device in response to a search query will be described.

With reference now to at 1 one or more traveler computing devices may submit travel queries to the user interface module . For example a travel query may correspond to search criteria for location of one or more travel items desired by a traveler computing device . For example a travel query may correspond to a query for flights hotels cars cruises travel packages etc. Illustratively the user interface module may be configured to locate one or more travel items e.g. by interaction with the reservation systems interface module and one or more reservation systems and to return relevant travel items to the traveler computing devices . Because querying for travel items is generally known within the art the specific interaction for returning relevant travel items will not be discussed in more detail herein.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure usage information generated by or in response to traveler computing devices may at 2 be submitted to the usage monitoring module . Illustratively usage information may correspond to the specific search criteria submitted within a traveler query. Still further usage information may correspond to other activities of the traveler computing devices such as acquisition of travel items e.g. booking or reservation on the travel service . In some embodiments usage information may be generated by the user interface module based on information received from the traveler computing devices such as search criteria and requests for acquisition. In other embodiments usage information may be based at least in part on information received from the traveler computing devices . For example traveler computing devices may be configured to transmit usage information such as conducted searches acquisitions etc. to the user interface module for further transmission to the usage monitoring module .

After reception of the usage information by the usage monitoring module the usage monitoring module may at 3 process the usage information for storage in the usage information data store . As described above in some embodiments processing may include anonymization of the usage information by removing any personal or sensitive data such as names specific addresses payment information etc. In some embodiments anonymization may include generalization of data. For example a specific address of a traveler may be generalized to a corresponding city region zip code area etc. while removing reference to the traveler s own address. Still further in some embodiments usage information may be compressed or otherwise transformed for future storage in the usage information data store .

In some embodiments the usage monitoring module may be further configured to categorize the usage information prior to storage. Categories may be based for example on the specific travel item query on the traveler making the request or on other actions taken by the traveler. For example a query for a flight departing early on a Monday morning and returning on a Wednesday after five o clock may be categorized as a query by a business traveler. In the instance where the specific traveler frequently acquires travel items through the travel service the query may be categorized as conducted by an elite business traveler. Conversely a query for a flight departing on a Friday and returning on a Sunday evening may be categorized as a leisure travel. Any number of categories may be utilized including but not limited to business travelers leisure travelers vacation travelers frequent travelers travelers of a given distance e.g. short or long distance distance based on miles etc. international or domestic travelers or travelers from a given location e.g. traveling from or residing in a certain city state region country etc. . In addition categories may be combined. For example a category may include elite international leisure travelers from the east coast of the United States. Generally speaking the more specific a category the less usage e.g. searches and bookings is likely to be included in the category.

Categorization of usage information such as conducted searches and acquisition of travel items may be based on the specific query that resulted in the usage e.g. the query that facilitated the search or the query that ultimately lead to acquisition of a travel item . Aspects of a query that may be utilized in order to categorize a given usage include but are not limited to the number of travelers searched for the number of adults or children traveling the time and date of travel the length of travel the provider or brand requested e.g. airline hotel chain etc. the location of departure or arrival and the type of travel e.g. one way multi city round trip non stop one stop multiple stop . For example a single traveler may be more likely to be classified as a business traveler than multiple persons traveling together. As a further example travel including a weekend may be more likely to be classified as leisure or vacation travel than as business travel. Similarly non stop flights may be more likely to correspond to business travel than one stop or multiple stop flights. As yet another example queries for specific destinations such as tropical areas may be more likely to be classified as vacation travels.

Categorization of usage information may further be based on activity of the user or profile data of the user. For example a user that has recently conducted a large number of searches over a span of many days may be more likely to be classified as a leisure or vacation traveler e.g. if the recent activity indicates a desire to save money and a flexibility of travel dates . Conversely a traveler who searches on a single date and acquires a travel item relatively quickly may be more likely to be classified as a business traveler e.g. if the traveler s company is covering costs of the travel item . Similarly a traveler that has recently visited a number of different travel services may be more likely to be a leisure or vacation traveler than a business traveler. In some embodiments profile data of a traveler may further be used to classify activity by the traveler. For example where acquisition history indicates repeated flights to and from the same location the user s activity may be more likely to be classified as business activity. Similarly where acquisition history indicates frequent travel to a number of diverse tropical locations activity of the traveler may be more likely to be categorized as vacation or leisure travel.

Accordingly in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the usage monitoring module may be configured to at 4 categorize each item of usage information e.g. each submitted search query or travel item acquisition into one or more categories based on the activity itself such as the submitted query that resulted in a given search or travel item acquisition. By collection of usage information into one or more categories the travel service may be enabled to provide future travelers with information specifically targeted to their needs. For example a traveler submitting a business category query may be presented with assertions or other information based on other business activity. Still further collection of usage information into one or more categories may facilitate rapid selection of relevant usage information e.g. for the creation of assertions by reducing the amount of usage data returned.

After processing and categorization of the usage information such usage information may be transmitted at 5 to the usage information data store for storage. As will be described in more detail below such usage information may be utilized by other aspects of the travel server such as the assertion discover module in order to generate assertions for presentation to traveler computing devices.

With reference now to an illustrative interaction for generation of assertions based on usage information within the usage information data store will be described. The interaction of may be carried out for example subsequent to the interaction of . Specifically at 1 the assertion discovery module of may request usage information from the usage information data store . In response at 2 the usage information data store may return the usage information to the assertion discovery module .

In some embodiments the assertion discovery module may be configured to limit the amount of usage information retrieved. Illustratively the assertion discovery module may limit the retrieved usage information to traveler activities over a specific past period of time e.g. 30 days . By limiting retrieved usage information the relevance of assertions generated based on the usage information may be increased. Further by limiting the retrieved usage information the computation power required by the assertion discovery module may be reduced.

Thereafter at 3 the assertion discovery module may generate one or more assertions based on the usage information. As described above assertions may generally be associated with search criteria or a collection of search criteria. For example assertions may be created corresponding to a query for a one way flight from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013. As a further example assertions may be created for a set of search criteria. Illustratively assertions may be created for all queries for one way flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. in January of 2013. In some embodiments generation of assertions may include conducting data analysis of all usage data corresponding to a given set of search criteria in order to identify any activity shared among more than a threshold number of travelers. In some embodiments such thresholds may be percentage based e.g. any activity conducted by more than a given percentage of travelers . In other embodiments such thresholds may be absolute values e.g. any activity conducted by more than a given number of travelers . For example in some embodiments the assertion discovery module may sort all usage information corresponding to a specific set of search criteria based on assertion types e.g. alternate or more specific dates times flight type provider etc. to determine any collection of traveler activity which exceeds the given threshold. Illustratively for a for flights departing from Seattle Wash. on Jan. 1 2013 and arriving at Dallas Tex. on Jan. 7 2012 eighty five percent of travelers may have booked a non stop flight which may exceed the threshold requirement of ten percent of traveler activity. Therefore an assertion may be created indicating the amount or percentage of travelers booking a non stop flight. Conversely for the same search criteria only eight percent of travelers may have flown via Airline A. Because eight percent does not exceed the threshold requirement an assertion would not be created. Accordingly by analyzing usage information pertinent to a specific set of search criteria the most relevant assertions corresponding to the set of search criteria may be located and generated.

As described above in some embodiments assertions may further be based on a categorization of the usage information. Accordingly where usage information has been categorized the assertion discovery module may be configured to generate assertions specific to each category of usage information. Such category specific assertions may be beneficial for example where the activities of different categories of users vary widely. Illustratively a large proportion of usage information with regard to flights from Los Angeles Calif. to Honolulu Hi. may be categorized as vacation usage information. However this information may be of relatively little relevant to a traveler attempting to travel between Los Angeles and Honolulu for business purposes. Accordingly by generating assertions for travel between Los Angeles and Honolulu specifically for business related activities such a business traveler may be provided with more relevant assertions. Further information regarding generation of assertions will be described in more detail with respect to below.

After generation of relevant assertions for a given set of search criteria the assertion may be stored in the assertion data store . As will be described below these assertions may thereafter be retrieved for presentation to a traveler computing device e.g. in conjunction with results of a query for travel items .

With reference now to an illustrative interaction for provision of generated assertions to a traveler computing device based on a travel item query will be described. Specifically at 1 a traveler computing devices may submit a query for a travel item to the user interface module of . In some instances a submitted query may be explicit. For example the traveler computing device may specifically request information regarding items matching a given criteria. In other instances a submitted query may be implicit or otherwise inferred e.g. based at least in part on user activity within the travel service . For example a user may view information regarding flights to Seattle Wash. for a number of days. In such an instance it may be that the user is also interested in hotels in Seattle Wash. during those days. Accordingly a query for hotels in Seattle Wash. may be inferred and assertions regarding that query may be presented to the user. In some embodiments an inferred query may be presented to the user. In other embodiments assertions may be presented to the user without inclusion of the inferred query. Accordingly though embodiments may be described herein with reference to explicit queries assertions may be presented based on explicit implicit or inferred queries. After receiving or otherwise determining such a query the user interface module may at 2 submit a request to the assertion discovery module for assertions relevant to the travel query.

As described above in some embodiments assertions may be divided into a number of categories based on a type of query received or a type of traveler making the query. Accordingly in some embodiments the assertion discovery module may be configured at 3 to determine a category of the query received from the traveler computing device . In general categorization of a retrieved assertion may be similar to categorization of usage activity. For example categorization may be based at least in part on the criteria of the received query on prior activity of the traveler computing device on profile information of the traveler e.g. as stored within the traveler profile data store or on any combination thereof. Categorization of a query will be described in more detail with respect to below.

Thereafter at 4 the assertion discovery module may request relevant assertions from the assertion data store . In return the assertion data store may return the relevant assertions. As described above assertions may generally correspond to a set of search criteria. For example a first set of assertions may correspond to searches for flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013 while a second set of assertions may correspond to searches for flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. in the entirely of January 2013. Accordingly where the query received from the traveler computing device is for non stop flights on Airline A from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013 both sets of assertions may be relevant. However relevance of the set of assertions specific to the queried travel date may exceed the relevance of the set of assertions for the entire month in which the travel would occur. Accordingly in some embodiments where multiple sets of assertions are determined to be relevant to a received query the assertion discovery module may be configured to determine only a subset of relevant assertions to be presented to the traveler computing device . For example the assertion discovery module may be configured to attempt to return only the most relevant assertions to the traveler computing devices . Relevance of assertions may be based at least in part on a prioritization of categories or types of assertions. Illustratively in the example given above assertions associated with the specific date of travel queried may be returned prior to assertions associated with the specific month of travel. In some embodiments the number of provided assertions may be manually specified. In other embodiments the number of provided assertions may be specified by the preferences of the traveler computing device . In still more embodiments the number of provided assertions may be based at least in part on the display capabilities of the traveler computing device e.g. the amount of assertions that are capable of being displayed on one user interface screen .

After determining a set or subset of relevant assertions the assertion discovery module may at 6 return the determined assertions to the user interface module . The user interface module may thereafter at 7 return the relevant assertions to the traveler computing device for presentation to the traveler. Illustratively the interaction of may be performed in conjunction with an interaction to return travel items relevant to the submitted travel query. Accordingly though not shown in the user interface module may further transmit travel items relevant to the traveler to the traveler computing device . As such the traveler may be enabled to view relevant travel items based on the submitted query as well as assertions regarding other activity of travelers based on similar queries. Based on such assertions the traveler may be enabled to modify alter or expand their submitted query. For example a traveler submitting a query for non stop flights on Airline A from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013 may be presented with an assertion that of other users submitting similar queries ninety percent booked a flight on Airline B e.g. based on a lower price greater availability etc. . Because of the travelers restrictive search criteria flights for Airline B would not normally be presented despite the advantages identified by other travelers. As will be described in more detail below by selecting the presented assertion the traveler may be enabled to view flights for Airline B and therefore to ascertain any advantages in such flights that otherwise would not be presented to the traveler.

Though not shown in in some embodiments the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine additional information regarding assertions such as an average or lowest price of travel items corresponding to the assertion or another difference between items corresponding to the assertion and items returned by the current query. For example a query for flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013 may be associated with an assertion that many travelers acquired non stop flights. Accordingly in some embodiments the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine an average flight time of non stop flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Jan. 1 2013. Thereafter the assertion may be modified to service a lowest or average flight time to the traveler computing device. In some embodiments the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine information regarding assertions by interaction with the reservation systems interface module e.g. by submitting a query corresponding to the assertion . In other embodiments the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine information regarding assertions by interaction with the usage monitoring module e.g. to determine an average flight time or other information regarding recently acquired items corresponding to the assertion . Still further the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine a difference between one or more items corresponding to an assertion and one or more items to be returned by the current query. For example an assertion may reflect the difference between the lowest flight time corresponding to the query and the lowest flight time corresponding to the assertion e.g. Travelers who took a non stop flight saved an average of 2 hours 36 minutes flight time . Though illustrative examples of additional information regarding an assertion are provided herein any aspect or information regarding an assertion may be presented in conjunction with the assertion.

In other embodiments the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine assertions associated with contacts of the user e.g. contacts of the user on the travel service on a social networking service contacts within an address book or other information on the traveler computer device . After determination of such contacts the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may determine a sub set of the assertions which reflect actions taken by such contacts. Such sub sets of assertions may be presented to the user instead of or in addition to assertions regarding general users. For example a user searching for a flight from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. may be presented with an assertion that of 51 contacts searching for similar flights 65 flew on Airline A.

With reference to one example of a user interface for delivery of assertions to a traveler computing device e.g. in response to a query for travel items is displayed. As shown in the user interface enables a traveler computing device to submit travel queries to view available travel items in response to a submitted travel query and to view assertions related to the submitted travel query. Illustratively the user interface may be generated by the user interface module and presented on the traveler computing device by an application such as a browser application on the provider computing device . In this example the user interface contains a title reference to the travel service i.e. the Travel Service as well as a salutation to the traveler currently visiting the travel service . In the illustrated example the traveler is identified as Tom Traveler. The user interface further contains a navigation panel which directs the traveler to various other features offered by the travel service . Illustratively units of text within the navigation panel may correspond to interactive links which modify or change the user interface when selected. In the current example Tom Traveler has selected link Flights. Based on this selection the user interface module has returned the content for user interface .

By use of the user interface the traveler computing device may submit a travel query to the travel service including criteria for determining relevant travel items. Illustratively such a query may be submitted by use of the search portion of the user interface . As shown in the search portion enables a traveler to specify criteria for relevant flight travel items such as departure location and date and arrival location and date. Though a limited set of search criteria is provided in one skilled in the art will appreciate that additional or alternative criteria may be specified by the traveler computing device including but not limited to time of departure or arrival flight provider type of travel e.g. non stop one stop non stop and price. Accordingly the criteria described with respect to is intended to be illustrative and not limiting.

In the illustrative user interface the criteria displayed in the search portion may be reflective of a previous search submitted by the traveler computing device . Accordingly a number of relevant travel items are shown within the results portion including travel items . Each travel item corresponds to a travel item available for acquisition by the traveler. Further each travel item may have been selected based on the submitted search criteria as reflected by the search criteria potion . In the current example each travel item corresponds to a round trip flight from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Tuesday Jan. 1 2013 and returning Monday Jan. 7 2013.

In addition the user interface includes an assertion display portion that includes assertions relevant to the submitted travel query e.g. as reflected in the search criteria potion . Each assertion may represent actions of other travelers taken in response to the submitted travel query as reflected in the search criteria potion or in response to similar queries. For example assertion reflects that of travelers searching for similar flights eighty five percent acquired via booking a non stop flight. As a further example assertion reflects that of travelers searching for similar flights sixty percent flew to Dallas Love Field DAL e.g. instead of Dallas Fort Worth International Airport DFW . As a still further example assertion reflects that of travelers searching for similar flights forty five percent searched for flights on Airline A. Though not shown in each assertion may provide additional information regarding items corresponding to the assertion. For example may be modified to reflect an average or lowest price duration etc. of items corresponding to the assertion or to reflect a difference in items corresponding to the assertion and items corresponding to a current query e.g. items . Still further as described above additional or alternative assertions may be included within the user interface such as assertions regarding activity of contacts. Illustratively an assertion may be presented not shown in reflecting the number or percentage of social networking contacts that took an activity corresponding to the assertion e.g. flew on a non stop flight flew to Dallas Love Field DAL searched for flights on Airline A etc. .

As described above in some embodiments user actions may be divided into a number of categories based at least in part on the action and or the user performing the action. Specifically based on aspects of the traveler s query the traveler s past behavior on the travel service or other services and based on information regarding the traveler e.g. profile information within the traveler profile data store the traveler s action e.g. a submitted query may be categorized into one of a number of predefined categories. In the illustrative example the travel service e.g. via the assertion discovery module has determined that the current query by Tom Traveler is likely representative of a business category query as reflected by display element . Accordingly the assertions may be reflected of other business actions taken by travelers on the travel service rather than all actions taken by users in general. In some embodiments display element may be selectable by a traveler in order to modify a currently selected category. For example the travel service may initially classify Tom Traveler s search as business but Tom Traveler may in fact be traveling for leisure purposes. Accordingly in response to selection of display element Tom Traveler may be presented with a number of possible categories e.g. including leisure . Though not shown in by selection of an alternative category the assertions may be modified to reflect assertions relevant to the selected category.

As described above each assertion may generally reflect actions taken by other travelers based on the same or similar search criteria. Accordingly the immediate traveler Tom Traveler may be enabled to view actions taken by a significant number of similar travelers. These actions may reflect aspects of travel items not immediately recognizable based on generally submitted search criteria. For example assertion that eighty five percent of travelers acquired a non stop flight may reflect a significant time savings for non stop flights versus other flights without significant price savings. Similarly assertion that sixty percent of travelers flew to Dallas Love Field DAL may reflect better flight availability or better costs. Because assertions are based on the activities of users rather than any perceived benefit of the activity the travel service is not required to actively correlate activities with perceived benefits. Rather it may be assumed that in the majority of situations activities with beneficial aspects e.g. low cost low time commitment etc. are more likely to be performed by a large number of users. Accordingly by tracking the activities of a significant number of users beneficial activities may be provided to travelers without requiring analysis as to the benefits of the activity.

In some embodiments however it may be beneficial to present travelers with perceived benefits of a given activity e.g. searching for or acquiring a travel item . Accordingly in some embodiments the travel service may be configured to request information from travelers as to why a particular activity was undertaken. For example the travel service may at the time of booking a flight request that the booking traveler specify a reason for booking the flight e.g. low cost short flight time good seating availability etc. . Though not shown in in some such embodiments this information may be provided along with the relevant assertion. For example assertion may reflect that eighty five percent of travelers booked a non stop flight because of the short duration of such flights as compared to one stop or multi stop flights.

In the user interface of each assertion may be selectable by a user to modify or alter their current query based on the assertion. For example assertion may be selectable by Tom Traveler to modify the currently submitted query to return only non stop travel items. Similarly assertion may be selectable by Tom Traveler to modify the currently submitted query to return only flights from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Love Field DAL in Dallas Tex. Still further assertion may be selectable by Tom Traveler to modify the currently submitted query to return only flights on Airline A. Examples of user interfaces displaying such modified searches will now be described with reference to .

With reference now to a modified version of the user interface of will be described. Because many display elements of are similar to those of they will not be described in detail with respect to .

In one embodiment the user interface of may be displayed in response to selection of assertion of asserting that eighty five percent of business travelers booked a non stop flight . Accordingly the user interface of may be modified to augment the search of with the additional criteria that only non stop flights be desired. This may be reflected in the modified search criteria as well as in the relevant travel items and . Specifically each of the travel items and now reflect non stop flights. Accordingly by selection of an assertion such as assertion of Tom Traveler may be enabled to view only travel items relevant to the displayed assertion.

In addition because the search criteria submitted by Tom Traveler have been modified based on the selected assertion new assertions may be presented. Similarly to the assertions of assertions may represent actions taken by other travelers of the travel service in response to the submitted query e.g. a non stop round trip flight from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Tuesday Jan. 1 2013 and returning Monday Jan. 7 2013 . Because a non stop aspect has been added to Tom Travelers initial query Tom is now presented with assertions for other travelers searching for non stop flights. Specifically assertion reflects that of users searching for non stop flights similar to those requested by Tom Traveler seventy seven percent booked a flight on Airline A. Similarly assertion reflects that of travelers submitting queries similar to Tom s half searched for a departure date of Jan. 3 2013 rather than Jan. 1 2013. Still further assertion reflects that fifteen percent of similar travelers flew to Dallas Love Field in Dallas Tex. As described above each assertion may be selectable by Tom Traveler to further refine or modify a current search. For example Tom Traveler may select assertion to view non stop flights on departing on Jan. 3 2013 rather than Jan. 1 2013 as initially specified .

With reference now to version of the user interface of as modified by selection of the assertion will be described. As noted above because many display elements of are similar to those of they will not be described in detail with respect to .

Specifically the user interface of may be displayed in response to selection of assertion of asserting that half of business travelers booked a departure flight on Jan. 3 2013 rather than Jan. 1 2013 . Accordingly the user interface of may be modified to reflect the search of as modified by a different departure date. This may be reflected in the modified search criteria as well as in the relevant travel items . Specifically each of the travel items now reflect flights departing on Jan. 3 2012. Accordingly by selection of the assertion of Tom Traveler may be enabled to view only travel items relevant to the displayed assertion.

In addition because the search criteria submitted by Tom Traveler have been modified based on the selected assertion new assertions may be presented. Similarly to the assertions of and assertions of assertions may represent actions taken by other travelers of the travel service in response to the submitted query e.g. a non stop round trip flight from Seattle Wash. to Dallas Tex. on Thursday Jan. 3 2013 and returning Monday Jan. 7 2013 . Because the departure date of Tom s query has been modified Tom is now presented with assertions for other travelers searching for flight departing on Jan. 3 2012. Specifically assertion reflects that of users searching for non stop flights similar to those requested by Tom Traveler eighty three percent booked a flight based on the submitted query without further modification. Similarly assertion reflects that of travelers submitting queries similar to Tom s seventy eight percent searched for flights on Airline A. Still further assertion reflects that twenty percent of similar travelers searched for flights returning Jan. 10 2013. As described above each assertion may be selectable by Tom Traveler to further refine or modify a current search.

However in the immediate instance inclusion of assertion may reflect than many travelers choose not to further modify or refine a current search but rather book a travel item based on the current search. Similarly Tom Traveler may find that his desired travel item has been made available within the current search e.g. as one of the travel items . In such an instance Tom Traveler may select the desired travel item for further booking on the travel service . Because the process of acquiring and booking a specific travel item is generally known within the art further description will not be included herein.

Though an illustrative user interface is described above with respect to assertions may be provided to a user via any number of or type of interfaces. For example as described above in some embodiments queries may be implicit within or otherwise inferred based on user activity e.g. on prior services on the travel service etc. . Accordingly assertions may be included within any user interface from which a query can be determined. For example as described above a traveler viewing information on hotels in a given city may be inferred to be interested in flights to the city. Accordingly assertions may be provided based at least in part on such an inferred search within the user interface containing information regarding the hotel is provided. Still further in some embodiments assertions may be provided via other interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs . Accordingly the user interface of should be viewed as illustrative and not limiting.

With reference now to one illustrative routine for generation of assertions based on usage information will be described. The illustrative routine may be carried out for example by the assertion discovery module of . In some embodiments the routine may be carried out in real time such that assertions may be generated based at least in part on a traveler s query and that the generated assertions may be made available immediately or substantially immediately to the querying traveler. In other embodiments the routine may be carried out periodically such as once per day to generate assertions based on the previous days usage activity.

Further in some embodiments the routine may be carried out with respect to a single search. For example the routine may be implemented in order to generate assertions for travel from a first City A to a second City B on a given date. In other embodiments the routine may be carried out with respect a variety of searches. Illustratively the routine may be implemented in order to generate assertions for travel from City A to City B on any date within a given month. Still further in some embodiments usage information may be divided into a number of categories e.g. business travelers leisure travelers elite travelers etc. . In some such embodiments the routine may be implemented repeatedly for each relevant category.

At block usage data relevant to the desired assertion set may be retrieved e.g. from the usage information data store of . For example where assertions are desired for travel from a first City A to a second City B on a given date usage data may include any user activity stemming from searches for travel from City A to City B on the given date. Similarly where assertions are desired for travel from City A to City B on any date within a given month usage data may include any user activity stemming from searches for travel from City A to City B in the given month. In some embodiments retrieved usage information may be limited in order to increase potential relevancy to decrease required computational power or both. For example retrieved usage information may be limited to traveler activities over a specific past period of time e.g. 30 days .

Thereafter at block one or more assertion types may be determined. As described above in some embodiments assertion types may be specified manually for each query type. Illustratively for queries regarding flight travel items assertions types may include either alternative or more specific criteria relating to dates times depart locations or arrival locations types of flights e.g. non stop one stop multi stop or flight provider e.g. airline . As a further example with respect to hotels assertions may include either alternative or more specific criteria relating to dates hotel providers room type or location within a given destination e.g. region or area of a city . Based on the manually specified assertion types the routine may attempt to determine any relevant usage activity as reflected in the received usage data which conforms to the specified type.

In other embodiments assertion types may be automatically generated based on the aspects of travel items searched for or booked. For example the routine may inspect the usage data for any shared characteristics of a large number of user activities. For example the usage data may reflect that over a threshold number or percent of activities share a specific characteristic e.g. start date end date brand or provider departure or arrival location etc. . Because a large number of activities share such a characteristic the routine may determine that the characteristic should be included as an assertion type. Illustratively hotels in or around a specific geographic location may not generally correspond to an assertion type. However if a significant amount of usage activity indicates that hotels around the specific location are relevant to travelers an assertion type may be created for hotels in or around the location.

Thereafter at block relevant assertions may be generated based at least in part on the usage data and on the determined assertion types. For example where non stop flights is determined to be an assertion type the routine may include a determination of what percentage of flights booked or searched for by travelers were non stop. Similarly where an alternate destination was determined as an assertion type the routine may include a determination of what percentage of travel items booked or searched for where directed to a specific alternate destination. As described above in some embodiments assertions may be associated with relevancy thresholds. For example an assertion may be determined to not be relevant if less than a threshold percentage or amount of travelers conducted the given activity. Illustratively if only 4 of travelers searched for or booked travel items to a specific alternate destination that activity might not qualify for creation of an assertion. In this manner the overall number of assertions may be limited such that only activity by a significant number of travelers is reflected in the generated assertions.

Thereafter at block the generated assertions may be stored e.g. in the assertion data store of for later retrieval. For example generated assertions may be presented to a traveler computing device in response to a search query as will be described with respect to .

With reference now to one illustrative routine for presentation of assertions to a traveler computing device described. The illustrative routine may be carried out for example by the assertion discovery module of . Specifically the routine may be carried out in response to user submission of a query for travel items in order to generate assertions relevant to the query.

Accordingly at block a request for assertions based at least in part on a submitted query may be received at the assertion discovery module . Illustratively the request may be received from a user interface module of in response to submission of the query by a traveler computing device .

As described above in some embodiments user activity may be divided into a number of categories such as business searches leisure searches or searches by elite users. As such in these embodiments the assertion discovery module may at block be configured to determine a category of the received query. Generally described categorical assignment of a search query may be based on similar criteria to categorization of user activity in general. Such criteria includes but is not limited to the query itself e.g. search terms dates destinations etc. prior activity of the traveler and profile information of the traveler. Based on the determined category the assertion discovery module may be configured to return those assertions relevant to the specific category.

Thereafter at block assertions relevant to the submitted query are determined. In some embodiments assertions may have previously been generated and stored e.g. in assertion data store of . In these embodiments block may correspond to retrieving assertions relevant to the current query from the data store. In other embodiments the assertion discovery module may be configured to return assertions in real time or in substantially real time. In such embodiments the assertion discovery module may be configured to determine relevant assertions immediately or substantially immediately such as by implementation of the routine of described in more detail below. In either instance assertions relevant to the current submitted query may be determined at block .

In some embodiments multiple sets of assertions may be relevant to a specific search query. For example in some embodiments a submitted query may correspond to multiple categories. Illustratively a traveler query may correspond to a business category and an elite category as well as a combination of the two e.g. a business elite category . Accordingly assertions relevant to the business elite category may be most relevant to the traveler while assertions relevant to the business category are slightly less relevant and assertions relevant to the elite category are slightly less relevant still. Further assertions of each of the above categories may be more relevant to the traveler than assertions corresponding to no category e.g. general assertions . Accordingly in some embodiments where multiple sets of assertions are determined to be relevant to a received query the assertion discovery module may be configured to determine only a subset of relevant assertions to be presented to the traveler computing device . For example the assertion discovery module may be configured to attempt to return only the most relevant assertions to the traveler computing devices . In some such embodiments a hierarchy of relevance may be established for assertion sets. For example the assertion discovery module may be configured to attempt to first display assertions corresponding to a combination of specific travel dates as well as a specific categorization e.g. business elite business etc. before attempting to display assertions corresponding to the specific travel date without the categorization. In some embodiments display of assertions may be based at least in part on a prioritization of the assertions. For example specific categories of assertions may be prioritized relevant to other categories of assertions. After determination of the most relevant assertions the routine may proceed at block where relevant assertions are returned to the traveler computing device . Examples of user interfaces for presentation of such assertions are described above with respect to .

Though not shown in as described above the assertion discovery module and or the user interface module may be configured to determine additional information regarding assertions such as an average or lowest price of travel items corresponding to the assertion or another difference between items corresponding to the assertion and items returned by the current query. Accordingly in some embodiments routine may be modified to retrieve information regarding items corresponding to a determined relevant assertion e.g. by interaction with the reservation systems interface module usage monitoring module and or other components of the travel service . Information regarding these items may be returned in conjunction with the relevant assertions for presentation to the user. Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the processes or algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described operations or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithm . Moreover in certain embodiments operations or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules routines and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The steps of a method process routine or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium. An example storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or a combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it can be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As can be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of certain inventions disclosed herein is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

