---

title: Digital wallet broadcasting
abstract: A service provider generates a customer key and a merchant key for facilitating efficient provision of assistance, by the merchant, with the customer's shopping and payment, via customer-merchant key coupling. When a customer approaches or enters a merchant's store the customer has signed up with, the user device carried by the customer wirelessly broadcasts a signal for the customer key unique to the merchant key. When the merchant server picks up the signal, the service provider communicates to the merchant server information in the user's profile including identifiers, shopping preferences, or the shopping history of the customer, subject to any user-created restrictions contained in the profile so that a sales clerk of the store may approach the customer to give recommendations, suggestions, or other assistance with shopping, based on the information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123065&OS=09123065&RS=09123065
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09123065
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
The present invention generally relates to consumer shopping and in particular to assisting a consumer via a customer merchant key coupling with offline shopping and electronic payment transaction.

The advent of mobile devices equipped with almost the full blown power and capacity of personal computers such as smart phones iPod tablets etc. changed significantly the landscape of shopping not only in an area of making payments but also in other areas by a number of new methods and tactics previously unimaginable and inapproachable in the conventional shopping modes. When shopping online or offline store a consumer was typically provided numerous options for payment such as cash check debit card and credit card. However as more and more consumers are using smart phones they may be less inclined to pay with such funding sources as a physical wallet or purse. Furthermore such funding sources may be unsafe or unsecure e.g. possibility of a consumer losing cash credit cards or check forgeries.

Payment providers such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. offer payment services to consumers with added security. As such an increasing number of consumers are using third party payment providers to make payments. Such a trend is especially prevalent with online transactions. The third party payment providers can be easily accessed from a device such as PCs smart phones or tablets via an installed application therein and used for payment from the accounts of customers with them. Further such third party payment providers can provide useful services using smart phones of the consumers who have an account with them and their servers connected thereto for the benefit and convenience of both the merchants and the customers.

At times consumers suffer difficulties and even feel frustration during shopping while wandering about in the store not knowing what to buy and or which item s to choose out of so many choices. Many such difficulties come from lack of accurate information on quality brands prices reputations or user s evaluations of products. Sometimes customers need advice on selecting suitable items as gifts to their families or friends or on better options or alternatives from someone with more experience and knowledge. Finding store clerks and asking for their opinions may help but in many occasions they may be hard to reach. Or some customers may feel it too awkward or cumbersome to approach them explain all the special circumstances under which the customer is searching for particular items and seek their recommendations.

Therefore a need exists to provide consumers a way to obtain professional opinions or guidance in shopping more easily and conveniently from someone such as store sales clerks who happens to be already equipped with the knowledge of each consumer s individual shopping preferences or special needs.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Once the user has been authenticated the user may be directed to a home page of the payment provider or user account. On the page there may be an option to access create or modify a user shopping profile. The option may be presented as a tab button or link the user can select. To create the user shopping profile by the process at step the user taps or clicks on the tab button or link on the user device through a touch screen or mouse.

The user may then see a screen on the user device having instructions and or fields for the user to select or enter at step information into for setting up the user s own shopping profile. The user may enter or modify the information either by tapping clicking on tabs buttons on the screen of a user device typing into fields through a device keyboard or keypad or speaking it into a device microphone. Examples of requested information include but are not limited to the age sex size marital status hobbies of the user and likes and dislikes of the user in shopping such as types of products colors merchants styles brands price ranges etc. and preferred payment method credit card information bank information shipping method and addresses. In an embodiment such information may be requested separately for different seasonal holidays like Christmas Hanukah Valentine s Day Easter Chinese New Year or personal celebration days like a birthday an anniversary wedding work etc. of the user a relative or a best friend and a baby shower a bridal shower and so on.

Further at step the page may provide the user with an option to enter the same kind of information for potential recipients of gifts from the user as well. Such information again may include not only the personal profiles and the shopping preferences of each potential recipient entered to the best of the user s knowledge but any personal celebration days of the potential recipients.

At step the user may further set restrictions such that for a particular merchant only some chosen information in the user s shopping profile may be transmitted to or accessed by the particular merchant when a customer merchant key coupling as described below occurs.

In one embodiment the user s shopping profile may consist not only of the information and restrictions entered by the user through the process but of information from the user s past shopping history. Such information may include the kinds prices sizes colors brands manufacturers sellers merchants of products the user purchased and the specific time of the season when the purchases were made.

The user can view the information entered into the user shopping profile at each step and when no more information is to be added the user is notified to confirm or modify if desired any information. Note that one or more of the steps above can be combined with one or more steps omitted and or performed in a different sequence. After finishing the process the data of the user shopping profile are stored or associated with the user account on the payment provider.

For the payment provider to create the customer merchant keys for mutual coupling both the customer and merchant have to sign up for the keys either at the same time or separately at a different time. Once the customer agrees to sign up for a customer merchant key coupling in one embodiment the merchant or a service provider may install a user application on the user device such as a mobile phone a tablet iPad or other suitable handheld devices that have capability of wireless communication. In another embodiment the user device may have already a pre installed user application by which the user accesses the account with the payment provider and that application may provide the capability of signing up the user for a customer merchant key coupling. In the latter case there is no need of installing a new application on the user device at the merchant s store.

The user application may be a subsidiary application of a single integrated master application of the payment provider and may be developed either by the payment provider or by a third party. It may provide instantaneous wireless communication to the payment provider as well as to the merchant server such as a merchant s server or computer system during the process of signing up the customer merchant key coupling Through the user application the user may also access the user shopping profile that may have been previously created and stored in or associated with the user s account and modify it any time if desired.

Signing up a customer and a merchant for a customer merchant key coupling by the payment provider may be initiated by sending a key generation request at step to the payment provider via the user application on the user device which may have been either newly installed at a merchant location or pre installed. The customer may make the request by tapping or clicking on for instance a tab or menu bar reading sign up for a customer key in the user application. The user application may in one embodiment request the user to provide identification and or authentication information such as a user name email address name phone number password PIN pass code etc. which the user may enter by a suitable entry means such as a touch screen mouse keypad or keyboard. Such identification and or authentication information of the user when entered into the user application may be transmitted to the payment provider at step if the user is not already logged in together with the request to generate a customer key.

Once the identification of the user is verified at step the payment provider may determine through the user application the identification and or authentication information of the merchant with which the user is signing up for the customer merchant key coupling. In one embodiment the merchant s identity may be entered and transmitted to the payment provider directly from the user device. For example the user device may have GPS capability and when the customer activates the sign up for a customer key tab the user application may locate the merchant using GPS and pull up and transmit all necessary information about the merchant to the payment provider. Or the user application may request the user to enter the identification of the particular merchant that the user is currently signing up with. The customer may receive from the merchant its unique identifier assigned to it by the payment provider and enter it into a field on the user application by suitable entry means. In another embodiment the user application may pop up a window listing all merchants affiliated with the payment provider or having accounts therewith for the customer to select one. In an embodiment where the customer can select a particular merchant on the user device for signing up customer merchant key coupling the customer can create different customer keys for multiple different merchants using the same user application.

In another embodiment the request to generate a customer key may be transmitted to the payment provider together with the user s identification and or authentication information from a merchant server through a merchant application installed therein. Like the user application the merchant application may enable the merchant to communicate with the payment provider for signing up the user for the customer merchant key coupling and also be a subsidiary application of a single integrated master application in the payment provider.

In this case the transmission of the key generation request may be achieved by for instance tapping or clicking on a tab or menu bar reading generate a customer key in the merchant application and the user s authentication information may be entered either by user s telling the store clerk the user s account number to enter by user s own typing the relevant information into the provided field in the merchant application or by user s swiping an ID card for instance into the merchant s system. In the embodiment the identification information of the merchant is directly transmitted from the merchant server to the payment provider.

Now at step the payment provider may determine whether the merchant with which the user wishes to sign up has a merchant key already generated and stored in the merchant server. The generation of merchant key may be done through the merchant application either any time independently from the generation of the customer key or at the same time when the customer key is generated at the sign up stage. If the payment provider determines that the merchant with which the user wishes to sign up has a merchant key already generated it may generate at step a customer key unique to the user as well as to the merchant or merchant key. The customer key once generated may be associated with the user account and transmitted over the wireless network to both the user device and the merchant server and stored therein as well as in the payment provider server.

If the payment provider determines that the merchant with which the user wishes to sign up does not have a merchant key yet it generates at step a merchant key and transmits it over the wireless network to the merchant server and stores it therein as well as in the payment provider server.

In one embodiment both the customer and the merchant keys may be electronic or digital codes comprising characters numbers or other electronic data uniquely identifying the customer and the merchant respectively by which the merchant may recognize the presence of the customer through wireless communication between the user device and the merchant server.

The actions of a customer and a merchant involved in the steps from to of the process were described hitherto as occurring at a sign up table in the merchant s store. Such sign up between a merchant and a customer however need not happen always at a merchant s store. In one embodiment the customer may open the user application at home where the application may have the list of merchants enabled for the customer merchant key coupling and select one merchant and perform the identical procedures for signing up for the key coupling described herein in a offline store setting.

The way the customer key and the merchant key works in one embodiment is as follows. As soon as a customer walks into or approaches a store of a merchant with whom the customer has previously signed up for the customer merchant key generation the user device carried by the customer broadcasts out a wireless signal unique to the customer key stored in the user device which is captured by the merchant s server. The wireless technology used for that purpose may be any technology employed for a relatively short range wireless communication such that the merchant server may be able to capture the wireless broadcast of the customer key only when the user device comes in a sufficient proximity to the merchant server e.g. not farther than the boundary of a parking ground neighboring the merchant s physical store. Such short range wireless communication technology includes but is not limited to a Wi Fi or a Bluetooth connection.

When the merchant server captures the wirelessly broadcasted signal for the customer key it compares it with customer keys stored in the merchant server and if the merchant server finds a match i.e. the customer key is unique to the merchant key such that the pair forms a predetermined combination. If it does the customer merchant key coupling occurs and the merchant is able to immediately recognize the presence or near presence of a particular customer in the merchant s store.

Once such a customer merchant key coupling occurs the payment provider may receive at step a notification of the occurrence of such a coupling. In one embodiment such notification to the payment provider may be transmitted only from the user device so that the customer may have a control over the merchant s involvement in the customer s shopping session through customer merchant key coupling. The customer control may be provided by a setting function in the user application. For example the customer may choose that such notification is automatically transmitted to the payment provider whenever such a customer merchant key coupling occurs so that the merchant may access the user s shopping profile in the customer s account and using that information help the customer with the shopping. Or the customer may choose that the notification is transmitted only when customer manually selects for instance a transmit tab or button in the user application after the customer is notified on the user device through text voice or other means of the occurrence of the key coupling. Or if the customer does not want any involvement from the merchant s clerks during her or his shopping the customer may choose before walking into the merchant s store to block preemptively the customer merchant key coupling by selecting for instance a deactivate tab or button on the user application. In this case the wireless signal carrying the customer key would not be emitted at all from the user device.

Even when choosing to allow the key coupling to happen and the merchant to access the customer s shopping profile the customer may exercise a control over the extent and kind of the information in the user s shopping profile to be communicated to the merchant. The customer may open the user application anytime after the sign up to add or modify various restrictions in the user s profile and designate a shipping or payment method s for each particular merchant the customer has signed up with.

In still another embodiment the occurrence of the customer merchant key coupling may be automatically notified to the payment provider directly from the merchant server at the moment the coupling occurs without customer s any intervention. Even in this case the customer may still be able to exercise a control over the kind of information on the shopping profile communicated to a particular merchant by adding modifying beforehand restrictions in the user s shopping profile of the customer.

Once notified of the occurrence of the customer merchant key coupling from either the user device or the merchant server the payment provider may communicate to the merchant at step all or selected portion of the information contained in the user s shopping profile so that the merchant using that information may help the customer with shopping.

In another embodiment at step the payment provider may automatically communicate to the merchant all or selected portion of the information contained in the user s shopping profile without requiring any notification from either the user or merchant of such occurrence. In this case the customer merchant key coupling may operate as a pre granted authorization for the merchant to access the customer s shopping profile stored in the payment provider and acquire any of the information contain therein as needed to assist the customer with shopping whenever the customer merchant key coupling occurs. But still the information acquired by the merchant may be limited by any restrictions the customer may have previously placed in the user s shopping profile.

The information in the user s profile communicated to or accessed by the merchant at step when the key coupling occurs may include information related with the identity of the customer including age sex size marital status hobbies and even a picture the customer s shopping preferences such as types of products colors merchants styles brands price ranges etc. shipping and payment preferences which may have been created by the customer s own entry and the customer s past shopping history collected by the payment provider. The information may further include the customer s shopping records on special personal celebration days like a birthday a wedding or working anniversary of the customer a relative or a best friend of the customer. The information transmitted to or accessed by the merchant however may be subject to any restrictions that the customer may place in the user s shopping profile either prior to or at the moment of transmitting the notification of the key coupling to the payment provider. Such restrictions may be placed on any information in the user s profile through the process described herein.

When the merchant accesses to the user s profile all or selected information contained therein about a particular customer who just did or is going to walk into its store may be immediately transmitted from the payment provider to the merchant server and displayed or popped up for instance on a merchant s computer in an ordered way by a merchant application. What is displayed on the merchant s computer may even include the customer s picture. Seeing the picture the store sales clerk may be able to readily recognize the particular customer entering or shopping in the store and approach the customer to provide any helpful suggestions recommendations or advice in finding and selecting items based on the various information the merchant acquired about the customer s shopping preferences and needs.

In one embodiment if the picture of the customer is not included in the information transmitted to the merchant to enable a visual identification the store clerk may still be able to locate the position of the customer inside the store via a sensor in the merchant server that can track down the source of the wireless signal of the customer key transmitted from the user device.

Once the customer merchant key coupling occurred and at the end of the customer s shopping whether or not the user has been helped by the merchant with shopping the payment provider may at step receive a payment request either from the user device or the merchant server to process payment for any item s the user decided to buy. To proceed with the payment the payment provider needs to know the identities of both the purchaser and the merchant. This can be achieved by the transmission of the customer and merchant keys to the payment provider.

In one embodiment the payment request may be sent from the user device by the user s selecting for instance a Purchase or Buy tab or button on the user application. If not already authenticated or logged in the user may be asked to enter certain information such as a user name an email address and or a password PIN. If partially authenticated the user may only need to enter a password PIN. When the user selects the Purchase or Buy tab or button on the user device after the item s to be purchased are scanned at a store checkout machine the user device may transmit the customer key to the merchant server. Then the merchant server may immediately be able to associate the customer to the particular items just scanned at checkout. At the same time the user device may transmit the payment request the customer key and the merchant key to the payment provider as well. Receiving such transmission the payment provider may be able to know not only who is the purchaser but also to whom the payment provider should pay. Then the payment provider may immediately connect to the merchant server and receive all information of the item s to be checked out such as the price brand type merchant sell and etc. and process the payment transaction.

In another embodiment the payment request may be transmitted to the payment provider directly from the merchant server at the user s request. When the user selects of the Purchase or Buy tab or button or even says Pay on the user device at the store checkout machine the user device may wirelessly transmit a signal for the customer key the second time to the merchant server. The merchant server then on picking up the customer key may identify the customer associate the item s just scanned at the checkout machine with the particular customer and transmit the payment request the item information prices kinds etc. the customer key and the merchant key to the payment provider for it to proceed the payment.

In still another embodiment the merchant machine at each checkout counter may have a sensor having a proximity sensing function that is capable of recognizing a particular user device approaching a given checkout counter via the unique customer key being broadcasted therefrom. In this case even the picture of the customer may have been already popped up on the computer screen at the counter. Then the merchant may immediately be able to identify the customer and associate her or him to those item s that are currently being checked out at that particular checkout counter.

At step the payment provider processes payment transaction for the item s in accordance with the user s shopping profile.

User device merchant server and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer tablet and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet and or access merchant sites for viewing and purchasing commercial products. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

User device may further include a key generation application by which the user may create or modify the user s shopping profile which may be stored in the user device payment provider server via network or both. To create the user s shopping profile the key generation application may enable the user to enter information of identifiers shopping shipping options and preferences of the user or any restrictions to be placed in communicating the information contained in the user s profile to potential merchants.

The key generation application may be directly linked to the user s account with the payment provider so that a user may quickly access the account and check the balance in the account during shopping. It may be incorporated into the browser in one embodiment such that it may be activated or populated by tapping or clicking a tab or button in the browser while the user is shopping merchant s sites online. In another embodiment especially applicable in an offline shopping situation the key generation application may be opened independently from a browser installed in the user device . The key generation application may further enable the user to transmit to the payment provider server a payment request.

The key generation application may also enable the user to make a request to the payment provider server to create a customer key on the user device . In one embodiment when the user is signing up for the customer merchant key generation at a merchant s store the user may tap or click on say a key generation request tab or button in the menu bar of the key generation application . Then the key generation application may pop up a window requesting the user to enter the identification of the merchant the user is signing up with for the customer merchant key generation by for instance selecting names in a list or typing the name into a field.

The key generation application then may pop up another window for the user to add modify any restrictions in the user shopping profile stored in either or both of the user device and the payment provider server specific to the selected merchant.

In another embodiment the request to the payment provider server to generate a customer key on the user device may be transmitted directly from the merchant server to the payment provider server for instance at a merchant s sign up table without going through the user device or the key generation application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information and make payments. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider as further described herein. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Merchant server may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received over network . Merchant server may be used for POS or online purchases and transactions. Generally merchant server may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as retailers and restaurants. For example a purchased item may be a donation to charity in the name of the user . Merchant server includes a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products food items or services identified in database .

Further the merchant server may further include a key generation application which may be either incorporated into the marketplace application or separate but linked with the marketplace application for the purpose of providing the service of transmitting a request with other necessary data to the payment provider to create a customer key and a merchant key server on behalf of the user and the merchant. In one embodiment the application is activated when the user comes to the key generation sign up table and agrees with the key coupling. When activated the application may enable the store clerk to enter the identifiers of the user to be transmitted to the payment provider server for receiving the customer key. When all the required data are entered the application transmits the request to generate a customer key and a merchant key to be uniquely paired directly to the payment provider server .

Merchant server also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of user through payment service provider server over network . For example checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from payment service provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment between user and the operator of merchant server . In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services communicate display information and send payments by user of user device and as discussed above.

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users including funders profile created by the user . For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information and shipping information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Account information may also include a user s shopping profile. Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases made by users and which funding sources are used as well as incentives for a user.

Payment provider server may further include a key generation application which assists the user to establish a customer merchant key coupling for facilitating the merchant s assistance with the user s shopping. The key generation application may enable a user to set up modify the user s shopping profile as described hereinbefore through an application in a user s device and once done it may associate the profile with the user s account information . The key generation application may receive from the user but either via the user device or the merchant server a request to create a customer key on the user device . The key generation application may generate a customer key and the merchant key at the user s and merchant s requests and store them on the user device the merchant server or both.

The key generation application may receive a notification that the customer merchant key coupling has occurred according to a predetermined combination saved in the merchant server and communicate to the merchant server the information contained in the user s shopping profile.

The transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive a purchase request from a user device and or merchant server for processing payment and storing the transaction in a payment database . In an embodiment such purchase request may come to the transaction processing application through the key generation application in the user s device or the application in the merchant server . The transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing an order and payment using various selected funding instruments as described herein. As such transaction processing application may store details of an order associated with a phrase from individual users.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

