---

title: Chromatic scheduler for network traffic with disparate service requirements
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for managing network capacity in a wireless network that serves various traffic flows with disparate quality of service requirements. Management can be based on multi-stage scheduling in frequency-time domain. A first scheduling stage can generate an allocation of radio resources that minimizes inter-cell interference amongst a plurality of base stations. Based on the first-stage allocation of radio resources, a second scheduling stage can compute flow capacity for a set of radio resources specific to a base station, and acquire guaranteed-bit-rate (GBR) and non-guaranteed GBR traffic flows. GBR traffic flows can be matched to computed flow capacity to generate an allocation of frequency-time resources. In second scheduling stage, GBR traffic flows can be scheduled based at least in part on allocated resources and priority queuing. Based on allocation(s) in first and second scheduling stages, a third scheduling stage can schedule non-GBR traffic flows based at least in part on fair scheduling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483702&OS=08483702&RS=08483702
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08483702
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 646 809 filed on Dec. 23 2009 entitled CHROMATIC SCHEDULER FOR NETWORK TRAFFIC WITH DISPARATE SERVICE REQUIREMENTS. The entirety of the aforementioned application is incorporated by reference herein.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to management of network resource allocation for traffic with disparate service requirements.

Network resources are scarce and costly to acquire from both a regulatory and an economical perspective. Availability of portions of the spectrum of electromagnetic radiation employed to transport wireless signal and power allowances for communication of such signal are highly regulated. Development and deployment of new radio technologies that more efficiently exploit available network resources can be time consuming and can require substantive financial commitment from telecommunication carrier s . Thus productive management of network resources can be paramount to the commercial viability of telecommunication carrier s . In particular network planning and associated network capacity administration can be principal to delivery of high quality telecommunication service and subscriber satisfaction on which much of the commercial success of telecommunication carrier s relies.

As wireless communication becomes ubiquitous and integrated with other non wireless communication technologies and services an ever increasing number of subscribers demand service with the ensuing operational pressure in network capacity. Accordingly preservation of quality of service QoS for guaranteed bit rate traffic while retaining satisfactory non GBR n GBR traffic QoS becomes increasingly difficult. Conventional solutions to management of network capacity and QoS preservation such as semi persistent scheduling can allow satisfactory delivery of GBR traffic at the expense of poor dynamic response to traffic conditions in loaded cells or sectors and ensuing detriment to capacity management.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate any scope. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

One or more embodiments provide system s and method s for managing network capacity in a wireless network that serves various traffic flows with disparate quality of service requirements. Management can be based on multi stage scheduling in frequency time domain wherein the multiple stages of scheduling can be periodically affected with each stage having an associated period. The multi stage scheduling in frequency time domain is termed herein e.g. as chromatic scheduling in that radio resources are cast and administered in terms of colors and associated color saturation and color luminance. A color can be a specific block of available frequency time resources color saturation can be the spectral span of frequency resources allotted to a color and color luminance can be a transmit power allocated to at least a portion of frequency time resources within a color.

One or more functional elements that implement such chromatic scheduling are termed herein e.g. as component s of a chromatic scheduler. A first scheduling stage can generate an allocation of radio resources for a set of base stations that minimizes inter cell interference amongst a plurality of base stations in the set. The allocation of radio resources can result in a resource exclusion list that can mitigate spectral overlap of allocated radio resources for disparate base stations. Based on the first stage allocation of radio resources a second scheduling stage can acquire radio link quality indicators and associated modulation and coding scheme indicators and compute flow capacity for a set of radio resources utilized by a base station. In the second scheduling stage guaranteed bit rate GBR and non guaranteed GBR traffic flows can be acquired. GBR traffic flows can be matched to computed flow capacity or bit rate requirement s to generate an allocation of frequency time resources whereas non GBR traffic flows can be allocated remaining frequency time resources. In scenarios in which Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH power control is employed PDSCH attenuation can be included in the determination of a satisfactory e.g. optimal or nearly optimal allocation of frequency time resources. In addition in the second scheduling stage GBR traffic flows can be scheduled based at least in part on the allocated resources and priority queuing. Based on the radio resource allocation s effected in the first and second scheduling stages a third scheduling stage can schedule non GBR traffic flows based at least in part on fair scheduling.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any or any wireless telecommunication or radio technology or network Non limiting examples of such technologies or networks include femtocell technology Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE 3GPP UMTS Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN Zigbee and other 802.xx wireless technologies or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies or non mobile communication technologies that are integrated to wireless networks.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the subject disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the subject disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject disclosure.

As used in this application the terms component system platform node layer selector interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to as functional elements. As an example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. In yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In one example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features can also apply to a system platform node layer selector interface and the like.

Also components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. Computing devices can include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings can be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment UE mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject disclosure and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that at least delivers and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment or network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. Such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms that can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Further yet the terms set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration as set of devices includes one or more devices or a set of base stations includes K base stations with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity.

It is noted that various aspects of the subject disclosure are presented in terms of systems or embodiments that may include a number of components layers nodes interfaces platforms or the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems or embodiments can include additional components layers etc. and or may not include all of the components layers nodes interfaces platforms etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

With reference to the drawings is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of macro cells. Three macro cells comprise the illustrative wireless environment however it should be appreciated that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass up to 10 10coverage macro cells. Coverage macro cells 1 2 3 are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries that can be dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell can be sectorized in a 2 3 radians central angle configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It should be appreciated that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the subject disclosure can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and can be served respectively through Node B and and respectively associated radio component s and . It is noted that radio component s e.g. can be functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas e.g. that transmit and receive wireless signals. A radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. Node B with n 1 2 3 that serves a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations and a set of respective wireless links e.g. links with 1 2 3 operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations can form a macro radio access network RAN . Based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links can embody a Uu interface.

Mobile network platform s can facilitate circuit switched CS based and packet switched PS based e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation and delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. In an aspect CS based traffic can include voice and video streaming while PS based traffic can comprise data associated with IP based applications such as File Transfer Protocol FTP server client suites web browsers VoIP server client environments or the like. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include all EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider or service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition wireless network platform s can control and manage base stations and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells via for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s or associated serving node s . Similarly wireless network platform s also can control and manage radio component s in distributed antenna system s DAS s . Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate network technologies e.g. femtocell network s Wi Fi network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s . . . and associated components or infrastructure. In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM wireless network platform can be embodied in a core network and a set of radio network controllers.

In addition backhaul link s can include wired link components like T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links that can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks backhaul link s can embody an IuB interface. In another aspect for Evolved Packet System EPS network backhaul link s can embody an S1 X2 interface.

Distributed scheduling can produce a color allocation for each base station in the set of base stations that can achieve a satisfactory network capacity which can be optimal or nearly optimal. The scheduler or scheduler component that implements the distributed scheduling can utilize the distribution of preferred colors as an initial color allocation which can be further iterated e.g. adjusted to produce the color allocation and to compensate for time dependent variations in load condition interference or other radio link changes associated with the set of one or more base stations. In an aspect the scheduler or scheduler component can execute e.g. via at least in part a processor a distributed fixed point algorithm e.g. retained in a memory to generate color allocation through iteration of an initial color allocation e.g. preferred color distribution. Color allocation for the set of base stations can be retained in a resource exclusion list REL . In an aspect a REL can convey a partition of electromagnetic radiation spectrum available to the telecommunication carrier that administers the set of base stations recording allocation s of spectrally disparate frequency resources or color s to each base station in the set of base stations.

At least for high priority traffic e.g. guaranteed bit rate GBR traffic such allocation of frequency resources or color allocation can be directed to increase capacity of the set of base stations through reduction of inter cell or inter sector interference. As described below at least a portion of frequency resources in color allocation that are insufficient for transport or delivery of high priority traffic can be deemed non preferred color allocation and can be assigned to low priority traffic e.g. non GBR traffic overflowed high priority traffic or traffic in coverage areas without significant mutual interference amongst serving cells or sectors.

Color allocation can be supplied to a scheduler not shown in or scheduler component that can conduct priority scheduling as second stage scheduling. Such scheduling can incorporate at least one of radio link condition s or traffic input which can include GBR flow s also referred to as GBR traffic flow s and non GBR flow s also referred to as n GBR traffic flow s and can allocate frequency time resources e.g. physical resource blocks in 3GPP LTE based technology in accordance at least in part with estimated available capacity in a set of frequency time resources for a specific base station and service requirements of GBR flow s . Available frequency time resources for allocation can be constrained in part by color allocation . Allocation of frequency time resources in second stage scheduling can include generation of a first set of frequency time resources which can be included in a resource reservation list RRL for GBR traffic flow s and the REL and a second set of frequency time resources that can be included in a complementary RRL CRRL that can allocate frequency time resources for n GBR traffic flow s . Conventional priority queuing PQ technique s can be employed to schedule transmission of one or more flows in GBR traffic flow s .

CRRL can be complementary to RRL in that the CRRL can include frequency time resources that are part of the color allocation for the base station but have insufficient bit rate throughput due for example to poor radio link quality to support transmission of GBR packets which are part of GBR traffic flow s in accordance with pre determined requirements. Accordingly in addition to scheduling GBR traffic flow s second stage scheduling or priority scheduling can produce a complement color allocation that can be conveyed to a scheduler or scheduler component that can effect fair scheduling as third stage scheduling of non GBR traffic flow s and re transmission of data packets that compose such traffic.

Scheduling stages can be repeated periodically as illustrated in diagram arrows that connect disparate points in delay timeline represent such periodicity. It should be appreciated that reiteration of a scheduling stage can lead to reiteration of subsequent scheduling stage s . First stage scheduling represented with solid circle s has a period that is longer than period of second state scheduling represented with grey circle s which in turn is longer than period of third state scheduling represented with open circle s . In an aspect can be two orders of magnitude longer than which can be one order of magnitude longer than As an example 60 s 20 ms and 1 ms. Time scale of period of each scheduling stage described herein can be dictated at least in part by at least one of time scale of changes in input information utilized to allocate radio resources and to schedule traffic or computational cost to perform the scheduling stage. In an aspect distributed scheduling can be the most computation intensive including collection or exchange of load condition s of a plurality of base stations and analysis of a significant manifold of frequency and power allocation particularly for small e.g. 1.25 KHz sub carrier spacing and large portions of available EM radiation spectrum also termed herein available spectrum . In another aspect changes in load condition s within a served sector or cell can occur over longer time scale s than changes to service requirement for queued traffic. Accordingly . Similarly to increase likelihood of successful delivery of data packets in n GBR traffic allows various re transmission attempts of such data packets and adjustment of traffic load that result from served n GBR e.g. best effort data packets.

In an aspect of the subject disclosure magnitude of at least one of or can be configured statically or dynamically. Static configuration can be effected by a network administrator. Dynamic configuration can be performed automatically in accordance with a predetermined set of criteria such as magnitude and rate of changes in load condition s traffic input or radio link quality as determined from radio link condition s e.g. CQI report s MCS indicator s signal strength data . . . . In addition or in the alternative dynamic configuration can be conducted autonomously based at least in part on analysis of temporal and spatial patterns of load condition s in the set of base stations or network performance resulting from at least color allocation or complement color allocation . Dynamic configuration of scheduling period s also can be implemented based on cost utility trade off amongst scheduling costs e.g. collection of load condition s signaling level of delivery of load condition s information or scanning of available traffic flow s . . . which can be incurred at each instance of a scheduling stage and benefit of allocating radio resources and traffic in accordance at least in part with updated load condition s and traffic input.

Periodic or iterative implementation of the scheduling stages can enable optimization or nearly optimization of network capacity through periodic or iterative update of radio resource allocation s and schedule s that are based at least in part on updated load condition s in one or more served sectors. Reiteration of first stage scheduling can afford re packing or redistribution of frequency radio resources in color allocation in response to changes in load condition s in a set of one or more served sectors e.g. change in traffic or change in inter cell interference levels in one or more sectors. In an aspect re generation of a color allocation for a set of base stations can be implemented even in scenarios in which a base station within the set of base stations is failing. Re packing of radio resources can warrant re generation of RRL and CRRL which can be afforded by reiteration of second stage scheduling. It should be appreciated that such reiteration allows for acquisition of updated traffic input and associated GBR flow s and n GBR flow s . Updated RRL and CRRL can enable re scheduling of both GBR flow s and n GBR flow s as traffic is served. In addition substantially shorter period with respect to can allow efficient scheduling of re transmission of n GBR e.g. best effort packet s .

The multi stage nested scheduling described herein and enabled by the system s described below can provide at least the following advantages with respect to conventional approaches to scheduling of traffic flow s with strict service requirements i Distributed scheduling can ensure that interference to a traffic loaded base station can be minimized thus network capacity can be optimized or nearly optimized. ii Priority scheduling can ensure that traffic flow s that demand strict service requirements or quality of service QoS such as voice traffic or audiovisual media content can have requirements fulfilled. iii Through scheduling of non GBR traffic in a shorter scheduling period re transmission of data packets and recovery of unused radio resources allocated to GBR traffic flow s can be allowed.

In an aspect stage I scheduler can search frequency and power allocations that minimize inter cell interference the frequency and power allocations can define a color allocation for each base station in the set of base stations wherein the color allocation can establish a color saturation and color luminance. Color saturation can determine spectral width of allocated resources for a base station and color luminance can establish a transmit power for at least a portion of the allocated resources in an aspect in one or more embodiments color luminance can be adjusted for an individual PRB or sets of PRBs within the spectral bounds of allocated color saturation. Stage I scheduler can pursue a search strategy in which neighboring base stations have disparate colors with saturation that suits relative capacity yet minimizes spectral overlap amongst the neighboring base stations at least for high priority traffic flow s . In addition color luminance can be determined so as to provide optimal or nearly optimal cell or sector performance yet mitigate inter cell interference particularly for traffic e.g. high priority traffic at loaded base station s in the set of base stations. The initial operating point for color allocations can be based on simulation of network capacity for the set of base stations for disparate color allocations. Stage I scheduler can terminate a search for a color allocation if an estimated e.g. simulated capacity for the set of base station satisfies predetermined criteria such criteria not shown can be retained in data storage .

Additionally stage I scheduler can generate a color allocation including generation of initial operating point s based at least in part on at least one of an actual network configuration or network performance measurement s . Such network performance measurements can include handover counts user equipment reports on data of served versus interfering signal levels CQI specific traffic data or the like. Combinations of the foregoing network performance measurements or other indications of potential mutual interference between cell or sector carriers can be part of network performance data employed by stage scheduler to generate the color allocation. Through incorporation of network performance data in determination of the color allocation the objective of scheduler platform can be to ensure at least in part that cells or sectors with the most mutual interference utilize different colors e.g. frequency resources for the highest priority traffic e.g. GBR traffic in coverage areas wherein the cells or sectors affect each other s performance through interference. Moreover cells or sectors with the most high priority traffic e.g. GBR traffic can have the most color saturation in a color allocation.

As described supra based on the color allocation stage I scheduler can generate a REL that can conveys color saturation and color luminance for the set of base stations. The REL can be retained in memory element REL s . Methodologies to search for suitable color allocation s for a base station can be retained in algorithm storage . As an illustration presents a color allocation for two neighboring cells and with loads characterized through functions t and t respectively. In the illustration in cells and can be served respectively by base stations and such base stations can be functionally connected via backhaul pipe s see also . At a time cells and can be allocated blocks of frequency resources and respectively. Blocks and can be colors characterized respectively by saturations and . Saturation of color represented by block can be larger than saturation for color of block to reflect for example larger load in cell . At time stage I scheduler can generate a disparate color allocation that can reflect variations in cell loads or in other network performance metrics wherein cell can be allocated a block of frequency resources with saturation and cell can be allocated a block of frequency resources with saturation with .

For the set of base stations stage I scheduler can supply a color allocation which can include color saturation and color luminance to stage II scheduler component also referred to herein and annexed drawings as stage II scheduler which can implement priority scheduling as described supra. Such color allocation can be a preferred color allocation determined as described hereinbefore. In an aspect for each base station in the set of base stations that provides input to load condition s a received color allocation can be discriminated in accordance with physical resource blocks which are frequency resources that can span a set of frequency sub carriers with a specific bandwidth during a transmission time interval. Stage II scheduler can acquire via for example a collection component not shown a CQI estimate and associated modulation and coding scheme MCS for each PRB allocated to a predetermined base station as established in the supplied REL in an aspect the predetermined base station can be that which hosts scheduler component . The CQI estimate and associated MCS can be acquired as part of radio link condition s which can be received from one or more user equipment. In the alternative or in addition the CQI estimate and associated MCS can be acquired through assessment of a radio link quality metric based at least on channel quality data that can be measured by the one or more user equipment and received as part of radio link condition s . As an illustration diagram in displays CQI estimates for a set of PRBs that are part of an example REL and for a set of traffic flows. Numerical indices associated with each represented PRB a sketched rectangle in can convey the respective CQI estimate higher values can indicate higher radio channel quality and a null value can represent a PRB with insufficient CQI to transport high priority traffic.

Based on the acquired CQIs and associated MCSs stage II scheduler can compute flow capacity for the color allocation associated with the predetermined base station and determine an effective bit rate that can be transported for each PRB. In an example the flow capacity and the effective bit rate can be established in Kbps. In an aspect flow capacity for a PRB can be computed or determined based on Kaufman Roberts recursion for GBR traffic flow s and non GBR traffic flow s . It should be appreciated that other approximation s or formalism s can be employed to determine flow capacity for the PRB variation s of Kaufman Roberts recursion also can be employed to establish the flow capacity for the PRB. It should be further appreciated that flow capacity in stage II scheduling or priority scheduling can be determined as a bit rate q e.g. q Kbps since service requirements of GBR traffic e.g. GBR flow s can be expressed in terms of committed information rates CIR . Accordingly scheduler platform via for example stage II scheduler can perform MCS time filtering to estimate an effective bit rate or bit rate metric for the duration of a call session in order to mitigate e.g. minimize signaling to a mobile device that initiates and maintains the call session.

Stage II scheduler can acquire traffic input which can include GBR flow s and non GBR flow s . Acquisition can be non local as illustrated in diagram wherein stage II scheduler can convey an indication to a network node e.g. a mobility management entity MME to deliver queued traffic for the base station including stage II scheduler . Alternatively acquisition can be local wherein stage II scheduler can poll a queue not shown in data storage to determine volume of GBR and n GBR data available data packets that compose GBR traffic flow s and n GBR traffic flow s . As illustration diagram in indicates two GBR flows for user equipment with identities IDs and . Based on acquired GBR traffic flow s stage II scheduler can generate at least one of an RRL or a CRRL and retain at least one of RRL or CRRL in memory element or . To produce the RRL stage II scheduler can match bit requirements for acquired GBR data flows with computed bit rate capacity for the PRBs in the color allocation available to the base station for which the GBR traffic flow s is available. To produce CRRL stage II scheduler can allocate PRBs that are part of the color allocation for the base station for which RRL is configured and do not provide suitable radio link quality or associated MCS. Thus PRBs indicated in CRRL can transport at least a portion of data packets that compose non GBR traffic flow s . In diagram in open blocks represent PRBs that are part of a generated RRL wherein as described supra numerical indices in each open block can convey a bit rate that respective PRBs can support or transport. A set of 10 transmission time intervals TTIs is illustrated in diagram . Based on radio resources reserved in RRL stage II scheduler can schedule GBR traffic flow s based on priority queuing PQ whereas scheduling of non GBR traffic flow s can be based on fair scheduling . Methodologies to implement PQ can be retained in algorithm storage .

In an example scenario such as the one illustrated in blocks and sketch an RRL and CRRL for frequency resource blocks or colors and . In blocks and dashed rectangles can represent allocated resources for GBR traffic e.g. GBR flow s while grey rectangles can represent resources allocated to n GBR traffic e.g. n GBR flow s . Likewise for color allocation at time blocks and can represent RRL and CRRL allocations. As illustrated stage II scheduler can produce allocation s in which spectral separation amongst frequency resources for high priority traffic e.g. GBR flow s dashed rectangles is larger than spectral separation between frequency resources assigned to low priority traffic e.g. n GBR flow s grey area in order to reduce effects of mutual interference amongst cell and in transport of GBR traffic. Such mutual interference can be caused by telecommunication e.g. wireless delivery or wireless reception of traffic e.g. user data or control data or signaling associated with user equipment and .

In addition or in the alternative color allocation at time can result from a reduction in high priority traffic in at least one of cell or for instance UE and UE can terminate call sessions that consume e.g. transmit or receive GBR traffic. As illustrated reduced high priority traffic from instant to instant can lead to reduced spectral separation amongst frequency resources allocated in blocks and and reduced levels of frequency resources with respect to allocation at time . It should be appreciated that the resources granted to a cell or sector in a color allocation can be made available for user equipment that operates in the cell or sector. As indicated supra dashed rectangles represent allocation of frequency resources for user equipment that transmit and receive high priority traffic and grey area rectangles represent resources allocated for user equipment that transmits and delivers low priority traffic.

In an aspect scheduler or component s therein e.g. stage II scheduler can allocate frequency resources in accordance with an allocation probability profile which can determine at least in part a blocking probability for assignment of a frequency resource to a specific call class e.g. high priority traffic call or low priority traffic call. In an example scenario Kaufman Roberts algorithm can be employed to determine the blocking probability and thus a satisfactory e.g. optimal or nearly optimal PRB allocation. At instant allocation probability profile can lead for example to allocation realization shown in block while allocation probability profile can result for example in allocation displayed in block . As indicated supra if traffic in at least one of cell or is reduced from instant to instant probability allocation profiles and can display a smaller probability for a larger portion of available frequency resources in blocks and respectively.

In an aspect of the subject disclosure in operational scenarios in which Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH power control is employed e.g. by a base station PDSCH attenuation can be factored in or included in the determination of overall chromatic priority or probability profile s to produce a satisfactory e.g. optimized or nearly optimized PRB allocation. In an aspect user equipment with higher PDSCH attenuation can have a lower chromatic priority than user equipment that operates at full PDSCH transmit power.

Stage III scheduler component also referred herein and in the annexed drawings as stage III scheduler can perform fair scheduling . To at least that end in an aspect stage III scheduler can acquire CQI and allowable MCS per PRB for the set of PRBs conveyed in CRRL which are PRBs allocated for non GBR traffic. If current or nearly current load condition s determined from such acquisition requires additional radio resources e.g. PRB s to transport the non GBR traffic flow s stage III scheduler can unmask a set of non committed PRBs listed in RRL s non committed PRBs are those resources not scheduled to transport a data packet. To unmask a PRB stage III scheduler can logically remove e.g. through a tag the PRB from the RRL and allocate the PRB for transport of non GBR traffic data packet s . Based on allocated PRBs including the set of unmasked PRBs stage III scheduler can schedule transmission of non GBR traffic in accordance with fair queuing e.g. weighted fair queuing WFQ methodologies to implement fair queuing can be retained in algorithm storage . Accordingly a scheduled transmission can be substantially random and based primarily in CQI estimates. Diagram in displays acquired CQI for a set of PRBs and a respective set of TTIs wherein black rectangles indicate PRBs that are granted for high priority traffic transport see e.g. the set of PRBs is the same as the set of PRBs illustrated in diagram . Diagram presents a transmission schedule for the set of PRBs and respective TTIs included in diagram numerical indices convey scheduler bit rate capacity for respective PRBs.

As an illustration displays an example color allocation and assignment of frequency resources to high priority and low priority traffic for coverage cells and . The color allocation can include frequency blocks and which can be spectrally adjacent. As described supra saturation for block can be larger because of larger load level e.g. larger value of function in cell . Diagram displays two illustrative sketches of resource allocation probability profiles that scheduler platform or components therein can produce for disparate times and and frequency resource blocks and in accordance with multi stage scheduling described herein. In diagram Cand Cindicate respectively center of cell and while B indicates the point at cell boundary that is intersected by a straight line connecting centers Cand C. At a first time for load conditions determined in part by and allocation probability Pof frequency resources for high priority traffic or GBR traffic in block obeys a profile while in block Pcan be determined by profile . Allocation probability of frequency resources for low priority traffic or n GBR traffic can be determined by P 1 P. As illustrated in diagram and indicated supra scheduler platform or components therein e.g. stage II scheduler can generate an allocation of frequency resources that increases spectral separation of frequency resources granted to high priority traffic in different coverage cells. At a second time load conditions in coverage cells and and mutual interference amongst such coverage cells can change and scheduler platform or components therein e.g. stage I scheduler or stage II scheduler can update allocation probability of resources granted for traffic within cells and . Such update is herein termed repacking and can be characterized by adjusted allocation probability profiles e.g. and . It should be appreciated that based on time scale re packing also can include adjustment of color allocation for instance every period can result in repacking of frequency time resources due to color allocation re generation.

In a particular illustrative scenario changes in load and mutual interference conditions can result from mobility of user equipment from cell center operation to cell edge operation. In an aspect cell center operation can be characterized by UE low transmit power and high path loss relative to neighboring cells whereas cell edge operation can be characterized by high transmit power e.g. a predetermined substantial fraction of maximum allowed transmit power for UE and low path loss relative to neighboring coverage cells. Accordingly to mitigate inter cell interference resulting from mobility of UE that results in a transition from cell center to cell edge operation repacking produced by scheduler platform or components therein e.g. stage II scheduler and stage III scheduler can increase spectral separation amongst frequency resources granted for high priority traffic in cells and . In view of spectral separation of frequency resources granted to high priority traffic traffic exchange between a mobile device such as that operates in the vicinity of the edge of coverage cell can be protected at least in part from interference that can be caused by displacement of UE towards the edge of cell .

In one or more operational scenarios in which PDSCH power control can be effected user equipment that consumes high priority traffic e.g. VoIP traffic can contribute different interference costs per PRB based at least in part on dynamic power allocated to the PDSCH. With respect to multi stage scheduling or chromatic scheduling described herein UE that consume high priority traffic e.g. VoIP traffic at cell center can utilize less power per PDSCH PRB create less interference on disparate UE and therefore can require lower priority than cell edge UE with full PDSCH power.

In particular in an aspect PDSCH attenuated cell center UE that consume high priority traffic e.g. VoIP or other GBR traffic can require lower priority than non attenuated cell center UE that consumes low priority e.g. best effort or other n GBR traffic with MCS that includes M ary QAM quadrature amplitude modulation with M a natural number. Accordingly repacking of frequency time resources as implemented by scheduler platform or components therein e.g. stage II scheduler and stage III scheduler can afford to allocate such PDSCH attenuated cell center UE that consume high priority traffic to PRB s which for example are co channel with the primary color of a neighboring cell e.g. block . However for substantially the same conditions e.g. PDSCH power control the repacking can avoid allocation of such PRB s to cell center UE that consumes low priority traffic e.g. best effort traffic or other n GBR traffic with M ary QAM at full power.

With respect to repacking scheduler platform or components therein e.g. stage II scheduler can adjust granted resources for high priority traffic e.g. GBR flow s and low priority traffic n GBR flow s in response to load changes originating from changes in traffic e.g. GBR flow s . In an aspect such adjustment can mitigate surplus of frequency resources assigned to low priority traffic as represented in . In an example scenario at instant a first color allocation of frequency resources e.g. frequency blocks and illustrated n diagram can result in an assignment of frequency resources e.g. profiles and for high priority traffic that presents a surplus of frequency resources in view of low high priority traffic in one or more of cells or . In addition the first color allocation diagram includes frequency blocks and . As illustrated the surplus of frequency resources can be represented by a substantive allocation of such resources to low priority traffic which in view of the finite amount of frequency resources available to a telecommunication carrier can lead to network performance degradation related to non optimal or limited frequency resources allocation for traffic in coverage cells other than cells and e.g. coverage cells associated with frequency blocks and .

To assign resources to the high priority traffic more effectively scheduler platform or components therein can adjust via implementation of multi stage scheduling described herein the first color allocation and the assignment of frequency resources to reduce available surplus of frequency resources and thus improve overall network performance. As illustrated at time a second color allocation e.g. frequency blocks and illustrated in diagram can span a lesser number of frequency resources while profiles and of allocation probability for high priority traffic can assign lesser resources to low priority traffic. In addition as part of adjustment to the initial color allocation blocks and diagram can be assigned increased saturation.

Repacking of frequency resources thus can improve resource allocation for various interference condition s . In particular scheduler platform or component s therein also can grant radio resources in response to or to accommodate inter cell interference as illustrated in . The displayed example allocation of frequency resources can optimize or nearly optimize inter cell interference condition s in a cluster of four coverage cells . The inter cell interference condition s can be current or historical in view of the periodic scheduling of radio resources see e.g. in one or more scenarios such inter cell interference can correspond to historical values of mutual interference. In addition scheduler platform or component s therein can assess mutual inter cell interference through construction of a mutual interference matrix I with a positive integer via collection of load condition s as described supra. For the cluster of cells illustrated in diagram at a specific time mutual interference can be represented by the set of values I I I I I I. For relative magnitudes of such values of inter cell interference as illustrated in diagram scheduler platform or component s therein can generate color allocation and produce allocation probability profiles and as presented in diagram . Frequency blocks can increase spectral separation amongst cells with larger inter cell interference. Likewise frequency resources granted to high priority traffic represented with dashed surface also display increased spectral separation for traffic in cells with higher mutual interference. As inter cell interference condition s change e.g. values in diagrams are modified in view of operation condition in cluster shown in diagram scheduler platform or component s therein can adjust allocation of frequency resources e.g. diagrams and to accommodate changed mutual interference condition s .

In addition or in the alternative repacking of frequency resources can mitigate high traffic collisions that can result from allocation of spectrally overlapping frequency time resources to user equipment in disparate cells or sector. Traffic collision risk can be estimated e.g. by stage II scheduler via an analysis component not shown based in part on portion of overlapping frequency time resources allocations or assignments between cell or sectors with highest or substantially highest mutual interference. In an aspect mutual interference can be estimated by stage II scheduler via the analysis component not shown through determination of traffic served in overlapping regions where reported neighbor interference is similar stage II scheduler can receive reports of interference as part of load condition s and via backhaul pipe s that functionally connect one or more base stations.

In an aspect of the subject disclosure to provide reservation of resources e.g. PRB s to a mobile device scheduler platform can guarantee specific capacity for set s of one or more traffic flows e.g. GBR flow s or n GBR flow s . In an aspect of the subject disclosure capacity guarantee s or committed capacity lower bound can be afforded via service curve s or service function s as described hereinafter. Such service curve s or service function s can be determined for a specific set of frequency time resources e.g. PRBs and for specific user equipment. In contrast to conventional scheduling approaches in which a bit rate guarantee for a traffic flow is provided based upon a continuum model e.g. based on an idealized Generalized Processor Sharing GPS node as part of conventional Weighted Fair Queuing WFQ service curve s can establish a capacity guarantee that incorporates the discrete e.g. packetized nature of a traffic flow.

Definition of a service curve also referred to as service function generalizes the continuum GPS scheduling model in the following manner. For an input flow R e.g. GBR flow s which is served with an allocated bit rate and has an associated output flow R and in the absence of overflow e.g. scheduler buffer sufficiently large to avoid traffic rejection output flow at time t for a busy period that starts at time t can satisfy . In addition under the assumption of null backlog at time t which can be expressed as R t R t 0 net output flow at time t after busy period starting instant tcan obey . Accordingly for a time t the net output flow can be bound as follows where infS denotes the infinum of set S spanned over domain arg.

A service function t s with s a delay that demarcates packet traffic initiation can be defined as Eq. 1 if and only if with a real argument is wide sense increasing 0 0 and output flow at t is lower bounded through the min max convolution of input flow and and an initial incoming flow R with the initial time namely . For a continuous R can be bounded from below as follows where R R s and supF is the supremum of function F over domain set set. Scheduler platform via for example stage II scheduler can compute t s from Eq. 1 for a specific mobile device frequency time set pair through computation of output flow for the specific frequency time set e.g. PRB and mobile device and based on requested input flow e.g. GBR flow s . illustrates in chart input flow R t represented with solid line and estimated output flow R t represented with solid line for a specific UE PRB pair and an extracted service function while in chart an extracted service function is displayed thick line with arrowhead as a function of time shift. For illustration purposes lower envelope R can be generated within an simplified model in which the service function in diagram can be rigidly shifted in accordance with incoming flow R .

Since channel quality indicator CQI for a specific UE frequency time resource s pair can be time dependent in view of the dynamic nature of the air interface capacity associated with frequency time resource s e.g. one or more PRBs is not constant as indicated supra in a scenario capacity can be established in Kbps. Accordingly scheduler platform which can reside in an eNode B can provide variable service capacity to the specific UE in the UE frequency time resource s pair. To account for the dynamic nature of the provided capacity e.g. afforded Kbps of the UE frequency time resource s pair scheduler platform can generate a cumulative function M t where M t can be the total service capacity for example estimated in bits that is available to a traffic flow such as GBR traffic between instants 0 and t. In an aspect stage II scheduler can generate at least in part the cumulative function M t which can be retained in data storage method s to generate M t can be stored in algorithm storage . Stage II scheduler can generate e.g. compute the cumulative function M t under the assumption that a node buffer e.g. at least a portion of data storage is sufficiently large to accommodate incoming traffic flow s e.g. traffic input and avoid overflow. In one or more embodiments if scheduler platform is implemented as part of a telecommunication network that exploits LTE radio technology and thus exploits Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing M t can be the aggregated number of bits conveyed within the 0 t interval in a set of frequency time resources that comprise a specific PRB. As an example it should be noted that for GBR services such as VoIP the specific PRB allocation can be repeated with a period or cadence of 20 ms.

In an aspect if the time dependent capacity of a set of frequency time resources e.g. a PRB satisfies a minimum guarantee of the form for some fixed function and for all 0 s t then t s can be a strict service curve or service function as defined supra. Scheduler platform or one or more components therein can compute a service curve t s and related slope t s d t s dt. Scheduler platform or the one or more components therein can cast t s as a guaranteed bit rate provided by a specific set of frequency time resources e.g. a specific PRB for which service curve t s can be computed. It should be appreciated that for GBR services such as VoIP communication e.g. transmission that are scheduled periodically with a predetermined cadence e.g. 20 ms the guaranteed bit rate as determined by t s can be recomputed and adjusted e.g. scaled accordingly. In an aspect stage II scheduler can compute service curve t s and its slope t s d t s dt.

As described supra service curve s can establish a lower bound for afforded bit rate or capacity of a set of frequency time resources e.g. one or more PRBs. Accordingly scheduler platform via for example stage II scheduler can allocate resources such as PRB s that match specific traffic specification s within the framework of Integrated Services IntServ as characterized by a manifold of one or more arrival curves min where t is time is maximum packet size conveyed in the traffic p is peak rate b is burst tolerance and r is sustainable rate and min is the minimum function. Within IntServ four tuple p r b represents a particular traffic specification T SPEC . T SPEC parameters for GBR and n GBR services can be specified and retained in a network memory or repository such as a call control database which can be part of a Home Location Register HLR a Home Subscriber Server HSS or the like. In addition or in the alternative T SPEC parameters can be retained in a memory functionally coupled to scheduler platform or any other scheduler described herein.

For example memory can retain T SPEC parameters for GBR and n GBR services within data storage . Based at least in part on T SPEC for a specific UE scheduler platform or any other scheduler platform described herein can match as part of call admission phase per UE T SPEC bit requirements with available frequency time resources e.g. a set of PRBs. In one or more embodiments stage II scheduler can compute an arrival curve t for a specific service either GBR service or n GBR service and related data flows in accordance with available e.g. retained in an accessible memory such as memory T SPEC parameters. In addition in such one or more embodiments stage II scheduler can match bit rate requirement s as determined by a computed arrival curve according to per UE T SPEC with available frequency time resources. It should be appreciated that matching of bit requirement s and available frequency time resources can enable a satisfactory e.g. optimal or nearly optimal allocation of such available frequency time resources e.g. a set of PRBs.

In a further aspect of the subject disclosure slope t s d t s dt of a service curve t s can characterize long term performance of a specific set of frequency time resources e.g. a PRB for which t s . Thus scheduler platform or any other scheduler platform described herein can offload scheduling of call session s e.g. VoIP session s FTP session s . . . from multi stage scheduling as described herein to Semi Persistent Scheduling SPS to increase call handling capacity for a cell or a sector. Scheduler platform via for example a monitoring component not shown can monitor performance of the cell or sector and if at an instant the frame error rate FER for example increases beyond a predetermined threshold the call session s can be dispatched back from SPS to multi stage scheduling or chromatic scheduling implemented by scheduler platform or component s therein.

In another aspect of the subject disclosure scheduler platform or any other scheduler platform described herein can improve utilization of radio link quality information e.g. CQI reports or channel state information CSI such as channel rank available in radio link condition s to grant radio resources for traffic telecommunication. To at least such end stage II scheduler can extract radio link condition s e.g. CQI reports or CSI for a first set of radio resources from received radio link condition s the extracted radio link condition s can be generated by a first set of wireless devices. The first set of radio resources need not be granted to one or more wireless devices in the first set of wireless devices e.g. a mobile handset can generate radio link condition s for radio resources e.g. PRBs at a time in which such radio resources have not been granted to the mobile handset. The first set of radio resources can include frequency resources e.g. physical resource blocks for different sub carrier bandwidth which span various portions of a color allocation.

For instance the first set of radio resources can include frequency resources e.g. PRB s for disparate coverage cells or sector such as frequency resources in blocks and . The first set of wireless devices can include wireless devices that operate in one or more coverage cells or sectors and consume e.g. transmit and receive low priority traffic such as n GBR flow s . In one or more scenarios the first set of radio resources can include PRBs that are allocated for telecommunication of high priority traffic through a mobile device located in the vicinity of the edge of a coverage cell or sector e.g. UE . Additionally stage II scheduler can extract radio link condition s for a second set of resources wherein CQI reports or CSI can be generated by a second set of wireless devices. Similar to the first set of wireless devices the second set of wireless devices can include wireless devices that operate in one or more coverage cells. However differently from the first set of wireless devices wireless device s in the second set of wireless devices can consume high priority traffic e.g. GBR flow s . The second set of radio resources can span various portions of a color allocation and can overlap at least in part with the first set of radio resources. Extracted radio link condition s can be retained in data storage .

Through the extracted radio link condition s in an aspect stage II scheduler can assess a path loss metric for one or more wireless devices in the first set of wireless devices and in the second set of wireless devices. The path loss metric can be determined in accordance with one or more models of electromagnetic propagation in the environment in which the first and second sets of wireless devices operate. Based on value s of the assessed path loss metric stage II scheduler can generate one or more groups or segments of wireless devices with value s of path loss metrics within a predetermined interval and thus identify a wireless device with a path loss metric value within a specific range. In particular though not exclusively stage II scheduler can identify a first wireless device e.g. UE that can be part of the first set of wireless devices wherein the first wireless device has a first path loss value within a tolerance from a second path loss value for a second wireless device e.g. UE in the second set of wireless devices. The second wireless device can operate in the same cell e.g. cell in which the first wireless device operates.

Through identification of the first and second wireless device with relative path loss metrics within a predetermined tolerance scheduler platform via one or more components therein or in part through processor s can schedule a group of radio resources in the second set of radio resources for the second wireless device based at least in part on the collected radio link condition s for the first set of radio resources. It should be appreciated that the scheduled group of radio resources can be directed to granting radio resources for telecommunication of high priority traffic. Accordingly the second wireless device that consumes high priority traffic can be assigned optimized or nearly optimized radio resources e.g. set of PRBs in accordance with the multi stage scheduling described herein without incurring costly uplink signaling.

In one aspect of utilization of radio link quality information e.g. one or more CQI reports or channel state information CSI such as channel rank dependency on some of the inter eNB load information exchange can be reduced and optimization or near optimization of allocation of frequency time resources can be nearly real time. In addition in view of the granularity and availability of radio link information generated and signaled by user equipment that consumes low priority traffic utilization of such radio link information can improve exploitation of time dependent traffic patterns for producing maximum or nearly maximum capacity of a set of base stations.

It is noted that EM radiation propagation aspects such as fading or Doppler effect can compromise at least partially the validity of the assumption of similar interference environments for the first wireless device and the second wireless device. To utilize radio link quality information generated by wireless devices that consume low priority traffic and avoid conditions that invalidate the assumption of similar interference environment s scheduler platform via one or more components therein or in part through processor s can exploit radio link quality information generated by stationary or pseudo stationary devices that communicate wirelessly and assign radio resources based at least in part on such radio link quality to mobile devices.

In example system stage I scheduler stage II scheduler and stage III scheduler can exploit clock layer to account for elapsed time. Clock layer can implement clock strata and time stamp features in accordance with Network Time Protocol to supply timing information necessary for periodic reiteration of multi stage scheduling.

In example system processor s can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of the various components or layer s of scheduler platform . To provide such functionality processor s can be functionally coupled indicated with arrows in through a bus not shown or any other information exchange conduit protocol or mechanism among disclosed memory ies or component s or subcomponents. Such bus or conduit can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or a message bus for data. In an aspect processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or alternative or additional memory components or elements therein to provide the described functionality of example system and various components thereof.

In addition to memory elements described supra and illustrated in for example memory can retain template s of service curves cumulative service curves or arrival curves based on determined e.g. computed historical values. Such template s can be generated for example as described herein. Memory also can retain template s of preferred color allocations as described supra.

In additional or alternative embodiment s scheduler platform and component s or layer s therein can be retained in memory as one or more sets of code instructions which can be executed by processor s to implement scheduler platform and described functionality thereof.

Scheduler platform and components therein memory and processor s can be part of or embodied in a base station. In addition or in the alternative in an EPS network scheduler platform or one or more scheduler components therein such as stage I scheduler stage II scheduler or stage III scheduler can be embodied at least in part in a Medium Access Control Radio Link Control MAC RLC packet scheduler server or node. As discussed hereinafter other components e.g. stage I scheduler client component also referred to herein and in the annexed drawings as stage I scheduler client that enable scheduling aspects described herein also can be embodied in part in the MAC RLC packet scheduler server or node. Moreover or as another alternative one or more components of scheduler platform or functional elements functionally coupled thereto e.g. processor s memory can be part of or embodied in user equipment wherein processor s and memory of the UE can be exploited to implement the one or more components of scheduler platform and associated functionality.

To enable implementation of distributed scheduling network node can collect load condition s from the set of base station s . In an aspect to consume color allocation s e.g. REL s in multi stage scheduling scheduler platform can include a stage I scheduler client component also termed herein and in annexed drawings stage I scheduler client which can receive the color allocation s . Stage I scheduler client can deliver an indication to stage I scheduler to supply e.g. generate and deliver a color allocation based on load condition s collected at the network node . Such indication can be conveyed periodically with period .

In example system processor s also can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of the various components or layer s of scheduler platform . To provide such functionality processor s can be functionally coupled indicated with arrows in through a bus not shown or any other information exchange conduit protocol or mechanism among disclosed memory ies or component s or subcomponents. Such bus or conduit can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or a message bus for data exchange. In an aspect processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or alternative or additional memory components or elements therein to implement the described functional elements of system or provide the described functionality of example system and various components thereof.

In additional or alternative embodiment s scheduler platform and component s or layer s therein can be retained in memory as one or more sets of code instructions which can be executed by processor s to implement scheduler platform and described functionality thereof.

Similarly processor s can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of the various components of network node . To provide such functionality processor s can be functionally coupled through a bus or any other information exchange conduit protocol or mechanism among disclosed memory ies or component s or subcomponents. Such bus or conduit can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or a message bus for data. In an aspect processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or alternative or additional memory components or elements therein to provide the described functionality of network node and various components thereof. In another aspect memory can retain default template s or predefined configuration s for initial color allocation s which can be determined for example by stage I scheduler via at least in part processor s .

In additional or alternative embodiment s stage I scheduler can be retained in memory as one or more sets of code instructions which can be executed by processor s to implement stage I scheduler and described functionality thereof.

In another example scenario based on temporal or spatial pattern of load condition s intelligent component can generate time dependent or location based e.g. for a subset of base stations in set of base stations scheduling periods and . Intelligent component can retain predicted values of scheduling periods or extracted patterns of load condition s in data storage . In yet another example scenario intelligent component can collect statistics or data on historical values of service curves or cumulative service curves generated as part of multi stage scheduling and generate one or more templates. Intelligent component can retain such templates in memory within data storage for example and scheduler platform or one or more components therein e.g. stage II scheduler can exploit such templates to speed up computations of current or nearly current service curves or cumulative service curves as part of a current scheduling stage or cycle. In one or more embodiments templates generated from historical values of service curves or cumulative service curves can be retained in a centralized network element e.g. network node not shown in and supplied to one or more base stations to produce at least in part current or nearly current service curves or cumulative service curves.

In an aspect intelligent component can perform artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios suitable color allocation s or scheduling periods to extract pattern of load condition s or to perform cost utility analysis. In an aspect AI methods can be retained in algorithm storage which also can comprise contents of algorithm storage . Artificial intelligence techniques can apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set e.g. the collected subscriber intelligence in the case of subscriber segmentation. In particular one of numerous methodologies can be employed for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation also can be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies also can be employed.

In example system processor s also can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of the various components or layer s of scheduler platform or intelligent component . To provide such functionality processor s can be functionally coupled indicated with arrows in through a bus not shown or any other information exchange conduit protocol or mechanism among disclosed memory ies or component s or subcomponents. Such bus or conduit can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or a message bus for data. In an aspect processor s can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory or alternative or additional memory components or elements therein to provide the described functionality of example system and various components thereof.

In additional or alternative embodiment s scheduler platform component s or layer s therein and intelligent component can be retained in memory as one or more sets of code instructions which can be executed by processor s to implement scheduler platform and described functionality thereof.

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s may represent one or more methods described herein in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the one or more methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

As described supra magnitude of such period can be configured statically or dynamically. Resource allocation resulting from act can be a first scheduling phase that yields a specific color allocation or resource packing as described supra for the set of base stations. In contrast to conventional frequency reuse planning color allocation can be dictated at least in part by load condition s of the set of base stations and allows for re packing of PRBs in response to changes in such load condition s as revealed through periodic instantiation of act .

At act based on the set of allocated set of PRBs e.g. color allocation a set of guaranteed bit rate GBR flows can be scheduled. In an aspect scheduling of the set of GBR data flows can be based on priority scheduling e.g. priority queuing PQ . Scheduling performed in act can be a second scheduling phase that can be specific to each base station in the set of base stations since the set of GBR flows are specific to operation of subscriber station s in sector s served by a base station. This second scheduling phase can be conducted periodically with period e.g. 20 milliseconds which magnitude can be configured in the same or nearly the same manner as configuration of . In another aspect 

At act based on available radio resources s subsequent to the scheduling of the set of GBR data flows a set of non GBR data flows can be scheduled. In an aspect scheduling of the set of non GBR data flows can be based on fair scheduling e.g. Weighted Fair Queuing . Scheduling performed in act can be a third scheduling phase that can be specific to each base station in the set of base stations since the set of non GBR flows are specific to operation of subscriber station s in sector s served by a base station. This third scheduling phase can be conducted periodically with period e.g. 1 millisecond which magnitude can be configured in the same or nearly the same manner as configuration of or . In another aspect 

At act flow capacity can be computed based at least in part on at least one of the acquired CQI estimate or MCS associated with the acquired CQI. Flow capacity can be computed for each PRB in a group of PRBs that can span the set PRBs for which the CQI and related MCS are acquired or be a sub set thereof. In an aspect flow capacity for a PRB can be computed based on one or more service curves or service functions as defined supra. In an additional or alternative aspect Kaufman Roberts recursion or algorithm for two classes of incoming traffic GBR traffic and non GBR traffic can be employed to estimate or allocate GBR capacities to any GBR service request. At act a set of GBR flows can be acquired. Acquiring such GBR flows can include receiving an indication of the set of GBR flows or scanning a memory e.g. that queues GBR traffic e.g. GBR packets for various applications or services .

At act a resource reservation list RRL can be generated based on at least one of the computed flow capacity and bit requirements of the set of acquired GBR flows. A REL includes a set of frequency time resources e.g. PRBs that are committed to a specific type of traffic e.g. GBR traffic. Generation of the REL can thus ensure that second scheduling phase act can accommodate available GBR traffic in accordance with demanded service level. It should be appreciated that the generated REL can be valid for the scheduling period . At act a list of available PRBs for non GBR traffic can be produced based at least in part on the generated RRL and the full group of PRBs for which flow capacity can be computed. The list that can be produced is termed herein Complementary RRL CRRL since it identifies resources available to non GBR traffic and that exclude resources listed in the RRL which thus serves as a black list of resources for non GBR traffic . A CRRL has a one to one relationship with a precursor RRL. It should be appreciated that available best effort BE can be allocated in accordance with the produced CRRL. At act the set of acquired GBR flows can be scheduled according to priority queuing and resources reserved through the RRL. Packets that compose the GBR flows can be scheduled within an interval that substantially spans the scheduling period .

At act based on the allocated resources non GBR traffic according to fair queuing e.g. WFQ can be scheduled. The allocated resources include any unmasked PRBs that may result from determination in act . At act re transmission of a portion of the non GBR traffic can be scheduled based on delivery conditions.

At act based on the load condition s and for a set of radio resources e.g. PRBs one or more allocations of frequency resources and power for the set of base stations can be analyzed to achieve a satisfactory capacity. As described supra in the subject disclosure an allocation of frequency resources can determine color saturation of a base station whereas power allocation can define color luminance of the base station in one or more embodiments color luminance can be adjusted for one or more sets of frequency time resources e.g. set of PRBs within the bounds of a color saturation.

In an aspect a satisfactory capacity can be the capacity that optimizes capacity of the set of base stations thus a satisfactory capacity can be an optimized capacity. However magnitude of the satisfactory capacity can be determined by a network operator based at least in part historical values of capacity metrics for the set of base stations for example a satisfactory capacity can be the one that is above average capacity estimated over a particular period e.g. a day a week a month . . . . Analysis can be performed by a component within the base station that enacts the subject method. In the alternative or in addition one or more network components can perform the analysis at the request of such base station and deliver analysis results to the base station. The analysis can be conducted at least in part through simulation of capacity based on load condition s . At act based on the analysis radio resources e.g. PRBs can be assigned to each base station in the set of base stations. At act a resource exclusion list REL that spans the assigned radio resources to each base station can be configured.

As described supra satisfactory capacity can optimize capacity of the set of base stations. However magnitude of the satisfactory capacity can be determined by a network operator based at least in part historical values of capacity metrics for the set of base stations for example a satisfactory capacity can be the one that is above average capacity estimated over a particular period e.g. a day a week a month . . . . Analysis can be performed by the one or more network components that enact the subject method. The analysis can be conducted at least in part through simulation of capacity based on load condition s . At act based on the analysis radio resources e.g. PRBs can be assigned to each base station in the set of base stations. At act for each base station in the set of base stations a resource exclusion list REL that spans the assigned radio resources can be configured. As indicated hereinbefore REL and configurations thereof can partition EM radiation spectrum available to the telecommunication carrier that administers the set of base stations and record allocation s of spectrally disparate frequency resources or color s to each base station in the set of base stations. At act the configured REL can be delivered.

At act radio link condition s for a first set of radio resources can be received from a first set of wireless devices e.g. via a component that resides within a base station that hosts a multi stage scheduler platform e.g. scheduler platform that operates in accordance with one or more aspects described herein. The first set of radio resources can include frequency resources that span various portions of a color allocation e.g. frequency resources in blocks and for disparate coverage cells. The first set of wireless devices can include wireless devices that operate in one or more coverage cells and consume low priority traffic e.g. n GBR flow s . At act radio link condition s for a second set of resources can be received from a second set of wireless devices. Similar to the first set of wireless devices the second set of wireless devices can include wireless devices that operate in one or more coverage cells. However differently from the first set of wireless devices wireless device s in the second set of wireless devices can consume high priority traffic e.g. GBR flow s . In an aspect the second set of radio resources can span various portions of a color allocation and can overlap at least in part with the first set of radio resources. In one or more scenarios either act or act or both can be effected as part of acts or .

At act a first wireless device e.g. UE that can be part of the first set of wireless devices can be identified the first wireless device has a first path loss value within a tolerance from a second path loss value for a second wireless device e.g. UE in the second set of wireless devices. The second wireless device can operate in the same cell e.g. cell in which the first wireless device operates. Identifying the first wireless device can include assessing a path loss metric for one or more wireless devices in the first set of wireless devices and in the second set of wireless devices. In addition based on value s of the assessed path loss metric identifying the first wireless device can include generating one or more groups or segments of wireless devices with value s of path loss metrics within a predetermined interval. At act for the second wireless device a group of radio resources in the second set of radio resources can be scheduled based at least in part on the collected radio link condition s for the first set of radio resources. Scheduling of the group of radio resources can be directed to granting radio resources for telecommunication of high priority traffic e.g. GBR flow s . In an aspect the scheduling of the group of radio resources can be accomplished through implementation of example method .

To provide additional context for features or aspects of the subject disclosure illustrates a block diagram of an example embodiment of a base station that can implement or exploit one or more features or aspects of the subject disclosure. In embodiment base station can receive and transmit signal s e.g. attachment signaling from and to wireless devices like femto access points access terminals wireless ports and routers or the like through a set of antennas N can be a positive integer . It should be appreciated that antennas are a part of communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted. In an aspect communication platform includes receiver s transmitter s that can convert signal from analog to digital upon reception and from digital to analog upon transmission.

In addition receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator can also be a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques e.g. MCSs such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer M ary phase shift keying PSK and the like. Communication platform also includes a coder decoder codec component that can facilitate decoding received signal s and coding signal s to convey.

Base station also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component in base station . In particular processor can facilitate determination of propagation delay information of RF signal or microwave signal between communication platform and antennas in accordance with various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein. Power supply can attach to a power grid and can include one or more power sources or power components and one or more transformers to achieve power level s that can operate base station components and circuitry. Additionally power supply can include a rechargeable power source or power component such as industrial grade rechargeable batteries or fuel operated power generators to ensure operation when base station can be disconnected from the power grid or in instances the power grid is not operating. Base station also includes a backhaul interface that can allow connection to backhaul link s and other link s that enable at least in part operation of base station . Backhaul interface can enable at least in part communication e.g. reception or delivery of data or signaling to disparate base stations for instance base station can receive or convey load condition s not shown in through backhaul interface .

Processor also can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can be functionally connected via a data or system bus to scheduler platform and other components of base station to provide at least in part functionality to each of such platform and components. Bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus or a message bus for data exchange. In addition bus also can serve as a link or conduit to supply power to communication platform .

In base station memory can store data structures code instructions and program modules including operating system s for the base station system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission location intelligence storage default template s for preferred color allocations templates for service curves and cumulative service curves over the air propagation models and so on. Processor can be coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform scheduler component and other components not shown of access point . Processor can execute code instructions not shown retained in memory to implement functional elements e.g. component s platform s . . . of base station or provide at least in part functionality to such functional elements.

Additionally CS gateway node s can access mobility or roaming data generated through SS7 network for instance mobility data stored in a visited location register VLR which can reside in memory . Moreover CS gateway node s interfaces CS based traffic and signaling and PS gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network CS gateway node s can be realized at least in part in gateway General Packet Radio Service GPRS support node s GGSN . It should be appreciated that functionality and specific operation of CS gateway node s PS gateway node s and serving node s can be provided and dictated by radio technology ies utilized by mobile network platform for telecommunication.

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic and signaling PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served mobile devices. Data sessions can include traffic or content s exchanged with networks external to the wireless network platform like wide area network s WANs service network s and enterprise network s which can be embodied in local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with mobile network platform through PS gateway node s . It is to be noted that WANs and or service network s can embody at least in part a service network s like IP multimedia subsystem IMS core s . Based on radio technology layer s not shown available to mobile network platform packet switched gateway node s can generate packet data protocol contexts when a data session is established other data structures that facilitate routing of packetized data also can be generated. To that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s such as Wi Fi networks.

In embodiment wireless network platform also includes serving node s that based upon available radio technology layer s within technology resource s can convey the various packetized flows of data streams received through PS gateway node s . It is to be noted that for technology resource s that rely primarily on CS communication server node s can deliver traffic without reliance on PS gateway node s for example server node s can embody at least in part a mobile switching center. As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN .

For radio technologies that exploit packetized communication server s in mobile or wireless network platform can execute numerous applications e.g. location services online gaming wireless banking wireless device management . . . that can generate multiple disparate packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s can include add on features to standard services for example provisioning billing customer support . . . provided by wireless network platform or at least a portion of location PDFs. Data streams e.g. content s that are part of a voice call or data session can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authorization authentication and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication thereafter. In addition to application server server s can include utility server s a utility server can include a provisioning server an operations and maintenance server a security server that can implement at least in part a certificate authority and firewalls as well as other security mechanisms and the like. In an aspect security server s can secure communication served through wireless network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authorization and authentication procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact.

Moreover provisioning server s can provision services from external network s like networks operated by a disparate service provider for instance wide area network WAN or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Provisioning server s can also provision coverage through networks associated to wireless network platform e.g. deployed and operated by the same service provider such as femtocell network s not shown that enhance wireless service coverage within indoor confined spaces and offload RAN resources in order to enhance subscriber service experience within a home or business environment.

It is to be noted that server s can include one or more processors configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example. It is should be appreciated that server s can embody at least a portion of scheduler platform or network node which operates in substantially the same manner as described hereinbefore.

In example embodiment memory can store information related to operation of wireless network platform . In particular memory can include contents of memory in example system . Other operational information can include provisioning information of mobile devices served through wireless platform network subscriber databases application intelligence pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns technical specification s consistent with telecommunication protocols for operation of disparate radio or wireless technology layers and so forth. Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN enterprise network s or SS7 network .

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. For instance Zigbee and other 802.xx wireless technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced etc. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure as disclosed in the subject specification can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. internet data service network such as internet protocol television IPTV can exploit aspects or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in the subject specification also can be effected through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store storage data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

