---

title: Surface scanning radio frequency antenna for magnetic resonance force microscopy
abstract: A probe for scanning a surface of an arbitrarily sized sample in magnetic resonance force microscopy comprising a magnetic sensor having a support element coupled to a magnetic particle, an RF antenna, at least partially circumscribing the magnetic sensor, for emitting an RF magnetic field across a portion of the sample and an optical sensor, positioned proximate the magnetic sensor, for detecting displacement of the support element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128157&OS=09128157&RS=09128157
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09128157
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to magnetic imaging and more particularly to a surface scanning radio frequency antenna for magnetic resonance force microscopy.

Magnetic resonance force microscopy MRFM is an imaging technique that acquires magnetic resonance images MRI at nanometer scales and possibly at atomic scales in the future. An MRFM system comprises a probe method of applying a background magnetic field electronics and optics. The system measures variations in the resonant frequency of a cantilever or variations in the amplitude of an oscillating cantilever. The changes in the characteristic of the cantilever being monitored are indicative of the tomography of the sample. More specifically as depicted in an MRFM probe comprises a base with a cantilever tipped with a magnetic for example Samarium cobalt particle to resonate as the spin of the electrons or nuclei in the sample are reversed. There is a background magnetic field generated by a background magnetic field generator which creates a uniform background magnetic field in the sample . As the magnetic tip moves close to the sample the atoms electrons or nuclear spins become attracted force detection to the tip and generate a small force on the cantilever . Using a radio frequency RF magnetic field applied by an RF antenna wire coil through the RF source the spins are then repeatedly flipped at the cantilever s resonant frequency causing the cantilever to oscillate at its resonant frequency. In the geometry shown springiness preservation by aligning magnetization SPAM when the cantilever oscillates the magnetic particle s magnetic moment remains parallel to the background magnetic field and thus it experiences no torque. The displacement of the cantilever is measured with an optical sensor comprised of an interferometer laser beam and an optical fiber to create a series of 2 D images of the sample held by sample stage which are combined to generate a 3 D image. The interferometer measures the time dependent displacement of the cantilever . Smaller ferromagnetic particles and softer cantilevers increase the signal to noise ratio of the sensor. Current magnetic resonance force microscopy probes are limited to small samples due to probe geometries where the radio frequency RF magnetic field is applied by a wire coil positioned at an edge of the sample . Because the wire coil must be positioned at the edge of the sample the probe can only measure the topography near the edge or on a small sample.

Therefore there is a need in the art for probe for magnetic resonance force microscopy in a more flexible manner for scanning arbitrarily large samples not limited to the edge of samples.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a probe for scanning a surface of an arbitrarily sized sample in magnetic resonance force microscopy comprising a magnetic sensor having a support element coupled to a magnetic particle an RF antenna at least partially circumscribing the magnetic sensor for emitting an RF magnetic field across a portion of the sample and an optical sensor positioned proximate the magnetic sensor for detecting displacement of the support element.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a probe for use in magnetic resonance force microscopy MRFM . Embodiments of the probe may be used in an MRFM technique known as Springiness Preservation by Aligning Magnetization SPAM . By adopting the SPAM geometry and using a new probe geometry accurate scanning of arbitrarily sized samples is achieved not limited to scanning the edges of a sample.

The RF antenna produces both RF magnetic field and RF electric fields. Typically MRFM uses the RF magnetic field to oscillate the spin of atoms in the sample. The RF electric field is undesired in MRFM because it causes transients in the magnetic sensor oscillation frequency and or the position of the support element . The RF electric field along the axis of an ideal loop antenna is zero. The support element and the magnetic particle are then located in a much stronger RF magnetic field than in conventional MRFM systems. In an exemplary embodiment the RF antenna the antenna has a nearly circular shape with a small gap at which the input lead and the output lead extend outwards on the same plane. In other embodiments the leads and extend downward or in another direction. In yet another embodiment the RF antenna does not have extended leads but receives RF power through an inductive coupling to another segment of nearby wire not shown .

In any of the foregoing embodiments the sample and the magnetic particle can be swapped such that the sample is coupled to the cantilever and the magnetic particle is replaced with a single particle or an array of magnetic particles secured to a moveable stage.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

