---

title: Requesting and providing acknowledgements to specific PTT talk spurts
abstract: The disclosure is directed to requesting and providing acknowledgements to a talk spurt in a group communication. An embodiment transmits the talk spurt to one or more recipients participating in the group communication, receives a selection of one or more target recipients among the one or more participating recipients, and transmits a request to each of the one or more target recipients to acknowledge the talk spurt. An embodiment receives, at a mobile device, a talk spurt during the group communication, receives, at the mobile device, a request to acknowledge the talk spurt, and transmits, by the mobile device, an acknowledgement (ACK) or a negative acknowledgement (NACK) in response to the request without obtaining the floor of the group communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143903&OS=09143903&RS=09143903
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09143903
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
The present application for patent is related to patent application Ser. No. 13 472 045 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERMITTING RECORDATION OF VOICE TRANSMISSIONS AMONG GROUP MEMBERS OF A COMMUNICATION GROUP OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed May 15 2012 pending and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety which is a Continuation of patent application Ser. No. 12 486 886 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERMITTING RECORDATION OF VOICE TRANSMISSIONS AMONG GROUP MEMBERS OF A COMMUNICATION GROUP OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Jun. 18 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 195 213 on Jun. 5 2012 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for recording voice transmissions between members of a communicating group of wireless telecommunication devices.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers there exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

In many cases it would be desirable for members of a PTT group to record part or all of a PTT session. For example it may be more convenient for members to record important details of a session by recording the session rather than writing down the salient details during the course of a conversation. In many cases it may not be possible for a member to write for example if the member is engaged in other activities. In existing PTT systems however it is difficult or not possible to record parts of a communication session. Furthermore if a participant needs to exit a PTT session the participant must later contact one of the other participants to review the content of the session.

In other cases voice communications may only be recorded via a voice messaging system. Such as system requires intervention by a centrally available voice messaging system. Visual voice mail requires a server for the user to pull down a file. The voice mail messages must be recorded and saved to the server.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method that may obtain the desired permissions to record part or all of a PTT session and for a wireless device member of a group the session to record the session. It would further be advantageous for the session to be recorded and stored locally such that a centrally accessible server is not required.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method computer readable product and wireless communication device that allows a member of a PTT group to receive indications from at least one other mobile communication device that a current conversation or talk spurt may be recorded. The member may further record or receive the recorded conversation or talk spurt on the device and store the recorded conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback.

In one embodiment a member of a PTT group talker may indicate that the next talk spurt is available for saving by other members of the PTT group targets by pressing the PTT button. The talker may continue to speak to the PTT group including content comprising information that may be desirable for recording. The target devices may hear the PTT voice in real time as normally heard and may further be presented the option of recording or saving the talk spurt for later playback as a voice sticky note. Optionally the voice sticky note may be allowed to be forwarded to other PTT users or internet portals and stored on a server.

In a further embodiment the method for recording a talk spurt may further include implicit or explicit permission to record the talk spurt. By having the talker mark a talk spurt as allowable to be saved the talker may provide implied permission to record the talk spurt.

In a further embodiment a verbal PTT conversation can be displayed as a chunk of spoken audio in a timeline with time stamp . Such visualization can have all PTT audio displayed in a chronological order and differentiates audio from each speaker by attributes such as color or positioning or the combination of several methods. The PTT user is then able to click on an audio chunk to replay and or archive an entire conversational exchange on the PTT system where that user is a participant.

Various embodiments are directed to requesting and providing acknowledgements to a talk spurt in a group communication. An embodiment transmits the talk spurt to one or more recipients participating in the group communication receives a selection of one or more target recipients among the one or more participating recipients and transmits a request to each of the one or more target recipients to acknowledge the talk spurt. An embodiment receives at a mobile device a talk spurt during the group communication receives at the mobile device a request to acknowledge the talk spurt and transmits by the mobile device an acknowledgement ACK or a negative acknowledgement NACK in response to the request without obtaining the floor of the group communication.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that a centrally accessible server is not required to implement the sticky voice note. Members of a PTT group may thus save important information that the talker is speaking e.g. phone numbers directions account numbers etc. for later playback. Targets may hear the talker s voice as it is being recorded and the resulting voice sticky note may be available locally without being stored and forwarded.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

In this description the terms mobile communication device communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system for sharing group media among one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual i.e. a full duplex channel is open but the device only broadcasts and receives in half duplex mode between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network the at least one wireless communication device configured to selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group . At least one group communication computer device is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication computer device is further configured to selectively receive group directed media from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The system can further include a data store in communication with the group communication computer device s with the group communication computer device configured to send group directed media to the data store as is further described herein. The data store configured to receive the group designated media from the wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the group directed media was sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

The group directed media can be graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . The group directed media can also be streaming media or an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. For example participants in a game can chat via the group communication about the ongoing game. Also the group directed media could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of these media files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a data store or file management server or other computer device to store the group directed media such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. The data store can be configured to automatically send the group directed media to each of the member wireless devices of the communication group upon establishing a communication link therewith. Alternatively in one embodiment if the group directed media is stored at the data store the group communication computer device or the data store can send a hyperlink to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group that will provides a link to the stored group directed media at the data store . Upon receipt of the group directed media by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the group communication computer device can send to the wireless communication device sending the group directed media an acknowledgement that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the group directed media.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed media to be sent e.g. send a target list and thus the group communication device will send or store the group directed media to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed media the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device . In one embodiment the communication group computer device can filter the potential communication groups available.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send group directed media during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the group directed media can be sent independently of the group communication session.

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct group communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware UI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware UI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have settings on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary mobile communication device and in particular the user interface for the device. The device typically includes a speaker and a display that may comprise an LCD or OLED display. In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The device may include a keypad that may be a standard phone keypad or in other embodiments a QWERTY keypad. The device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . The navigation keys may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft key.

As discussed above during the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may provide indication that a recording is taking place. Referring to in one embodiment the device may illuminate one or more buttons from keypad navigation buttons or OK key . The button s may illuminate steady in a particular color or may flash on off or in any other manner as configured in the device or by the user. Additionally and optionally the device may provide an indication of recording on display . For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress as indicated by . The mobile communications device may further provide an aural indication such as a periodic tone or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device.

In various embodiments a method computer readable product and wireless communication device is disclosed for enabling a member of a PTT group to receive an indication from at least one other member mobile communication device that a current conversation or talk spurt may be recorded. The member may further record the conversation or talk spurt or receive the recorded conversation or talk spurt that has been recorded by another device. The member device may then store the recorded conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback. The recordation may be stored at the remote data store of group communication server or at any accessible location within the system .

As shown in the process of in one embodiment a member of a PTT group talker may indicate that a subsequent talk spurt is available for recording by other members of the PTT group targets by pressing the PTT button of as shown at operation . Thus the device ID is transmitted as shown in operation and then permission is sent thereafter as shown at operation . The talker may continue to speak to the PTT group wherein the spoken content may include information that may be desirable for recording. The target devices may hear the PTT voice in real time while the talk spurt is being recorded. The target devices may further be presented the option of recording or saving the talk spurt for later playback as a voice sticky note. Optionally the voice sticky note may be allowed to be forwarded to other PTT users or internet portals and stored on a server such as data store of .

In various embodiments the method for recording a talk spurt may further include implicit or explicit permission to record the talk spurt. By enabling the talker to mark a talk spurt as allowable to be saved the talker may provide implied permission to record the talk spurt. In other embodiments the talker may provide explicit permission to record the talk spurt.

The recording of a talk spurt may be initiated in a number of ways. For example a talker may desire to mark a particular point of a conversation as likely to contain important information for recording such as marking as starting pint as shown at step . Thus in one embodiment the talker may indicate using the mobile communication device that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded. Such an indication may be provided by pressing the PTT button by pressing a Mark to record button by pressing a soft key assigned as a mark to record button and the like. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication devices in the group that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded and that other members of the PTT group may by provided indication that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded.

The recording of a talk spurt may be terminated in a number of ways. For example a talker may desire to mark a particular point of a conversation as the endpoint of the recordable segment such as shown by the receipt of the endpoint from the user and transmission thereof as shown at operation . In one embodiment the talker may indicate using the mobile communication device that the recording of the talk spurt may be terminated. Such an indication may be provided by releasing the PTT button if pressing the PTT button was used to initiate the recording. Alternatively the recording may be terminated by pressing an End Recording button or by pressing a soft key assigned as an end recording button. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication device that the subsequent talk spurt should no longer be recorded and that other members of the PTT group may by provided indication that the recording of the talk spurt may be terminated.

Thus in one embodiment an indication of the recording is also provided at the device as shown in operation and then the voice segment is recorded as shown at operation . The recorded segment can also be transmitted from the device to other group members as shown at operation . The sending can be through a direct transmission of the record data through the group communication channel s or can be done independently therefrom such as through other voice and or data traffic channels.

In an embodiment the talker may choose to indicate that a talk spurt may be recorded but at a time different from the current time. For example the user may indicate that the next PTT session should be recorded. Alternatively the user may indicate that the recording may be initiated at a designated time.

In another embodiment the user may specify specific target users within the PTT group. For example a member of a PTT group may be temporarily absent from the member s device. If the talker determines that a subsequent talk spurt should be made available for later playback by the absent member the talker may specify that a subsequent talk spurt should be recorded and moreover should be recorded on the absent member s device. In such a case it may be useful for the devices to automatically record a talk spurt when the talker has provided indication that the talk spurt may be recorded.

In an embodiment any member of the PTT group may request that a particular talk spurt be recorded wherein the requesting member is not the talker of the spurt. For example the member may desire to make a note of a particular piece of information spoken by the talker and may be temporarily unable to write down the information. The member may request that the talker repeat the information and record the subsequent talk spurt. The request may be indicated in a number of ways. For example such an indication may be provided by pressing the PTT button of by pressing a request to record button by pressing a soft key assigned as a request to record button and the like. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication device to transmit a request that the subsequent talk spurt be recorded. The request may be transmitted to the talker or in other cases to each member of the PTT group . Upon receipt of the request by the talker s device the talker s device may provide an indication that a request to record has been received. The talker s mobile communication device may request confirmation from the user as to whether the current talk spurt may be recorded. The device may provide on a user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the talker. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want the current conversation to be recorded A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the talker has provided permission to record the current talk spurt.

In various embodiments the request to record may be generated automatically. A variety of user interactions or device interactions may automatically generate the request. In one embodiment an automatic request may be generated when a user closes the mobile device during a PTT session. Such an action may indicate that the user is leaving the session and that the user may desire to save the rest of the session available for later playback. In another embodiment a user may configure a mobile device to automatically generate a request to record when an End button is pressed prior to the end of the PTT session.

In various legal jurisdictions it may be desirable to provide more explicit indication of the talker s agreement to record a talk spurt. Various means may be provided to enable such explicit indication. For example upon receiving an indication that the talker desires to mark the current conversation for recording the mobile communication device may request confirmation from the user as to whether the current talk spurt should be recorded. In one embodiment it may be desirable for the mobile communication device to receive two consecutive button presses before transmitting indications to other devices. In another embodiment the device may provide on a user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the talker. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want the current conversation to be recorded A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the talker has provided permission to record the current talk spurt. In further embodiments it may be desirable for each member of the PTT group to provide permission for the talk spurt to be recorded.

The talker may then transmit an indication to each member of the PTT group that the current talk spurt may be recorded. Each member of the PTT group upon receiving the indication may further record the conversation or talk spurt. The recording may occur automatically upon receipt of the indication or upon further indication provided by the target. The target device may not begin recording until the user provides further indication that a recording is desired.

In an embodiment the target device may provide indication that permission to record the current talk spurt was received. For example the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. The device may further provide on the user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the talker. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want to record the current conversation A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the target user has provided permission to record the current talk spurt.

In another embodiment the talker may be provided the capability to record the talk spurt on the talker s device and then transmit the recorded talk spurt to one or more member devices. The target devices may initially receive an indication that a recorded talk spurt is available. The target device upon further indication from the user may then receive the recorded talk spurt. In other embodiments the target device may automatically receive the recorded talk spurt upon receiving indication of the recorded spurt s availability. The member device may then store the received conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback.

As mentioned the target device with appropriate permissions may record a current talk spurt. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream representing the voice segment or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream. During the time period that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may further provide indication that the recording is taking place. In various embodiments the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. 

The recorded talk spurt may be saved locally in a memory of the mobile communication device. By saving the voice locally in the device the user may be provided immediate access to the recorded talk spurt. The term aural sticky note is used to describe such a recorded talk spurt in order to highlight the similarities to physical sticky notes. With a physical sticky note a person may write a note and physically attach the note to an appropriate object in the recipient s vicinity such as a desktop or a chair. By analogy an aural sticky note is an aural recording that resides on the target device and attaches to the device. In some embodiments the aural sticky note only resides on the target device or devices. The target user does not have to retrieve the aural sticky note on a server data store . Furthermore once the target user listens to and deletes the aural sticky note the note may be deleted from the target device and may no longer be available from any other source.

While the talk spurt is being recorded the talker may continue to speak to the PTT group wherein the spoken content may include information that may be desirable for recording. The target users may continue to listen to the talker s PTT voice in real time while the talk spurt is being record on the target device. In an embodiment upon completion of recording the user may be presented with the option of playing the sticky note immediately or saving the note for later playback. The options may be provided to the user immediately upon completion of the recording or the options may be provided upon completion of the PTT session.

In a further embodiment the user may be provided a further option to forward the voice sticky note to another PTT user. In this case the aural sticky note may be treated as a media entity and may be forwarded in a manner similar to forwarding a photo or other type of media file. Alternatively the user may be provided the option of forwarding the aural sticky note to another location for saving. For example the note may be forward to an internet portal and stored on a server such as data store .

The aural sticky note may be reproduced and played on the mobile communication device. The playing of the sticky note may be triggered by various actions. In one embodiment a device that holds at least one aural sticky note associated with the device may automatically play the sticky note when the mobile device is opened in cases where the device is a flip phone type of device. Other activation actions such as sliding open a keyboard protector or pressing any button to change the current device state from an inactive state to an active state may trigger the playing of the sticky note. In other embodiments the device may provide indication on its user interface that an aural sticky note is available. An LED indicator or other visual indication may be provided. In one embodiment a portion of the display may indicate that a sticky note is available for example by displaying New Sticky Note. 

In some embodiments a starting point for recording may be received in operation and transmitted to one or more devices in the PTT group . The talker may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may commence. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device or a software key may be assigned as a start to record key. Alternatively pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording may commence. Optionally the OK or PTT may be pressed continuously to record the voice segment and released to indicate that the recording should terminate. In one embodiment the recording may begin automatically at the time the talker indicates permission to record the voice segment. In other embodiments the recording may commence upon expiration of a predetermined delay.

In some embodiments an endpoint may be received in operation and transmitted to one or more devices in the communications group. The endpoint may indicate that the recording should terminate or indicate a time at which the recording should terminate. The talker may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording should terminate. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device which when pressed after previously being used to initiate a recording may now indicate that the recording should terminate. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a stop recording key. In other embodiments pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording should terminate after previously having been used to initiate a recording. In one embodiment if the OK or PTT is pressed continuously to record the voice segment the OK or PTT button may be released to indicate that the recording should terminate.

In operation the mobile communication device may provide an indication that a voice segment is being recorded. During the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. 

In operation the device may record the voice segment. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream. The recorded talk spurt may be saved locally in a memory of the mobile communication device. At the user may additionally be provided an option to forward the recorded voice segment or voice sticky note to another PTT user.

In operation a device that has received permission may indicate to the user that permission has been received. The device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. The user may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may commence. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device to indicate that the recording may commence. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a start recording key. In other embodiments pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording may commence. In one embodiment the OK or PTT button may be pressed continuously to record the voice segment.

In some embodiments the recording may begin automatically at the time the talker indicates approval to record the voice segment. In other embodiments the recording may commence upon expiration of a predetermined delay.

In operation the mobile communication device may commence recording the voice transmission segment. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream.

In operation the device may provide an indication that a voice segment is being recorded. During the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. 

Referring now to in some embodiments an endpoint may be received in operation . The endpoint may indicate that the recording may terminate or indicate a time at which the recording may terminate. The user may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may terminate. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device which when pressed after previously having been used to initiate a recording may now indicate that the recording should terminate. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a stop recording key. Alternatively pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording should terminate after previously having been used to initiate a recording. In one embodiment if the OK or PTT is pressed continuously to record the voice segment the OK or PTT button may be released to indicate that the recording should terminate.

In operation the device may terminate the recording. In operation the recording may be stored in a local memory of the device. However in some embodiments the voice data may be stored as the voice transmission is recorded and further storing action may not be necessary. In operation the user may be provided an option to delete the recording. The option may be provided at various points of the conversation. For example the user may be provided the option to delete upon terminating the recording process. In other embodiments the voice sticky note may be played at a later time and the user may be provided an option to delete during or after the sticky note is played. In operation the user may additionally be provided an option to forward the recorded voice segment or voice sticky note to another PTT user or to a server or other destination.

In operation the recorded voice segment may be reproduced and played on the mobile communication device. As discussed above the playing of the sticky note may be triggered by various actions. In one embodiment a device that has at least one aural sticky note associated with the device may automatically play the sticky note when the mobile device is opened in cases where the device is a flip phone. Other activation actions such as sliding open a keyboard protector or pressing any button to change the current device state from inactive to active may trigger the playing of the sticky note.

Once the talk spurts commence Client A begins a timestamp recording and Client B likewise begins a timestamp recording grouping the talk spurts in various chunks such as T1 T2 etc. The chunks in the timestamp of Client A and timestamp of Client B accordingly will match in this embodiment. Thus Client A could refer to chunk T4 on timestamp recording and Client B will be able to identify the same T4 chunk on timestamp recording . Alternately each client device could have its own timestamp criteria for PTT talk spurts. In this embodiment the verbal PTT conversation is displayed as each chunk of spoken audio in chronological order and can be differentiated to the user through different visual numbers colors position on a display or the combination of several methods. After the PTT conversations are over the PTT call terminates.

Thus Client A and Client B are able to click on an audio chunk to replay it with the ability to scroll back in time to view older audio from the same conversation. In one embodiment the clients can save specific audio chunks such as T1 and forward the selected audio chunks either their own audio or the audio of another to another user or wireless communication device. This embodiment therefore gives the PTT the ability to archive an entire conversational exchange of a PTT communication session.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a passive mechanism for listeners to acknowledge talk spurts without having to gain the floor and for speakers to identify which listeners have acknowledged a talk spurt.

Since PTT calls are a forced audio experience it is not always clear that a listener has heard what the speaker has said despite having a guarantee that the device was reachable. Currently to acknowledge that he or she has heard a talk spurt a listener must follow up with a talk spurt that includes nothing more than an acknowledgement. In group calls particularly large ones it can be unmanageable for everyone on the call to audibly acknowledge the receipt of a talk spurt. Additionally a speaker may only care that a specific listener or group of listeners acknowledges a certain talk spurt even if there are many more participants on the group call.

At UE A receives a selection from the user operating UE A of certain targets that the user wishes to acknowledge the talk spurt. Target selection may include selecting the specific targets from a list of call participants displayed on the PTT UI or bringing up a menu where the user can checkbox the specific targets. Alternatively the PTT UI application can track the audio within the talk spurt itself to pick out names of certain targets from whom the speaker likely wishes to receive acknowledgments. This may be accomplished though voice or speech to text recognition of names language constructs and or specific voice commands. For example if the speaker says Hey Tom and Jerry please the PTT UI may recognize the greeting Hey a speech construct followed by the names Tom and Jerry and decide that Tom and Jerry should acknowledge this particular talk spurt. Alternatively the speaker could say Tom and Jerry acknowledge where the word acknowledge is a voice command. The voice command need not be transmitted as part of the talk spurt. For example when the user presses the PTT button to request the floor but before the floor has been granted the user could speak the voice command. There are any number of ways that a user can select specific targets to acknowledge the talk spurt and the invention is not limited to the ones described here.

In an embodiment UE A need not begin transmitting a talk spurt before receiving target selection at . Rather UE A can receive target selection in conjunction with the floor request. In that case a user can select the list of targets then press the PTT button to request the floor.

After the user identifies which participants of the group call must acknowledge the talk spurt at UE A transmits a notice to those targets that the talk spurt requires an acknowledgment from them.

At the specified targets here UE B and UE C receive the notice. At UE B and UE C display an alert during the talk spurt that the talk spurt must be acknowledged. The alert may be a dialog box a tone a vibration the audible command from the speaker e.g. Tom and Jerry acknowledge an audible command generated by the PTT UI or any other minimally disruptive but noticeable alert. The alert should be something that the target will not easily miss since the point of requiring an acknowledgement is that a target may not be listening attentively to the group call the entire time.

At each target indicates to his or her UE that he or she has heard the talk spurt. In the embodiment illustrated in only the user of UE B acknowledges the talk spurt. The target user may do so by transmitting a quick PTT dismissing a dialog box speaking a voice command such as Roger that acknowledged etc. performing a gesture with the device such as shaking it or any other minimally disruptive but clearly identifiable event. The acknowledgement is not a floor request or talk spurt but rather a local interaction with the target s UE that causes the UE to transmit the acknowledgement.

Once the target has indicated to UE B that he or she acknowledges the talk spurt at UE B sends a message to UE A indicating the acknowledgment. At UE A receives the acknowledgment and at displays an indication to the speaker to inform him or her that the target has heard and acknowledged the talk spurt. The speaker s PTT UI can display the list of selected targets and an indication of whether or not they have acknowledged. This indication may be to remove them from the list gray out their name or icon put a check beside their name or icon or any other visual indication that distinguishes them from targets that have not yet acknowledged.

In an embodiment the floor may be locked i.e. no other user can obtain the floor until all specified targets have acknowledged the talk spurt. However this can be subject to a time limit or to the speaker s cancellation. For example if UE C takes too long to acknowledge the talk spurt UE A may cancel the requirement by transmitting a cancellation message to UE C and or to the group communications server brokering the call permitting it to release the floor.

In an embodiment other users may also see these passive acknowledgements at . In this mode further talk spurts ahead of the acknowledgements may be but need not be blocked as users can follow a convention to refrain from acquiring the floor until all outstanding acknowledgements have been received. Alternatively if a speaker sees that a given amount of time or a given number of talk spurts have passed and not all specified targets have acknowledged his or her talk spurt that speaker can attempt to regain the floor to try to get the attention of the specified targets send a follow up acknowledgement request or cancel the acknowledgement requirement.

Where multiple speakers have requested acknowledgements and the floor is not locked until all acknowledgements are received each speaker s UI can show only that speaker s list of specified targets or all speakers specified targets organized by speaker. Likewise the UIs of each call participant receiving notices of the acknowledgements can show only the currently speaking user s list of specified targets or all users specified targets organized by speaker. For example each list of specified targets can be displayed in a separate tab of the UI. Further all lists from the entire call can be displayed even if all targets have acknowledged or only those lists where not all targets have acknowledged can be displayed. Alternatively the lists could be organized by target which can be useful if a particular target is called on to acknowledge more than others.

In an embodiment users also have the option to passively negatively acknowledge NACK a talk spurt whether or not the speaker has required an acknowledgment from them. For example as illustrated in UE D has transmitted a NACK in response to the talk spurt transmitted by UE A at . This makes it clear to the speaker and other participants that a specific target did not actually hear a talk spurt but was aware that one occurred. This is useful in cases where the talk spurt was garbled where the volume was too low where the recipient was in a noisy area or wasn t paying close attention etc. The speaker can then decide to repeat the talk spurt or send a recording of the talk spurt such as a voice note discussed above or the PTT UI can automatically send such a recording of the talk spurt.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof or other physical embodiment of logic. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other physical data storage media such as optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

