---

title: Hearing screening application for mobile devices
abstract: A computer-implemented method is provided for conducting a hearing assessment of a patient. The method includes: presenting a plurality of objects on a display of a computing device, where each object produces an audio output in response to a stimuli from the patient and the audio output by the objects varies in frequency and intensity amongst the plurality of objects; prompting a patient with a visual cue to classify objects producing sound; receiving an input from the patient for each object in the plurality of objects, where the input indicates whether the audio output by a given object was perceptible to the patient; and generating an audiogram for the patient using the input received from the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119574&OS=09119574&RS=09119574
owner: The Children's Hospital Of Eastern Ontario
number: 09119574
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120830
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 530 178 filed on Sep. 1 2011. The entire disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to improved techniques for conducting hearing assessments for example of children.

Timely diagnosis of hearing loss in children has significant implications for a child s social and cognitive development. In young children hearing loss is often inconspicuous resulting in delayed diagnosis and rehabilitation. As a result children are at increased risk of delayed speech acquisition and the subsequent long term sequelae. Speech delay and hearing loss also represents a significant cost to society due to the resources required for their treatment such as special education speech therapy and social services. However it is clear that early detection is the key to restoring normal speech development and a favorable long term outcome.

Definitive diagnosis of hearing loss is typically made through audiologic assessment of pure tone air bone and speech thresholds. Traditionally pure tone thresholds are documented by asking the subject if they can hear tones of varying frequency and intensity. Currently standard clinical audiometry is performed using expensive proprietary non portable hardware and access is therefore limited in developing countries where hearing loss is more prevalent.

Automation of pure tone audiometry offers several potential benefits. Particularly a portable automated audiometer improves accessibility creating the possibility of routine pure tone audiometry in the primary care setting or in remote communities. Such a device may eventually permit a parent or teacher access to screening audiometry resulting in earlier detection of hearing impairment. However there may be significant differences between mean hearing thresholds determined though automated audiometry and manual audiometry. As such clinical validation of any automated audiometer is a necessity.

Pure tone audiometry regardless of automation or lack thereof is a mundane task. It is especially challenging to perform in the pediatric population where short attention span and the extent of cognitive development can be limiting factors. Children with hearing impairment may find audiometric testing even more difficult. Several adaptations of pure tone audiometry are used to evaluate hearing in children. These techniques include behavioral observation visual re enforcement and conditioned play audiometry. While more successful than conventional pure tone audiometry these adaptations are resource intensive and typically require two specially trained audiologists to administer. Naturally an ideal solution would capitalize on the advantages of automation while maintaining clinical validity and age appropriateness.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

A computer implemented method is provided for conducting a hearing assessment of a patient. The method includes presenting a plurality of objects on a display of a computing device where each object produces an audio output in response to a stimuli from the patient and the audio output by the objects varies in frequency and intensity amongst the plurality of objects prompting a patient with a visual cue to classify objects producing sound receiving an input from the patient for each object in the plurality of objects where the input indicates whether the audio output by a given object was perceptible to the patient and generating an audiogram for the patient using the input received from the patient. The audiogram may include a threshold of hearing for the patient at a given frequency using input received from the patient in the relation to the presented objects.

The method further includes presenting the objects such that each object in the sequence produces an audio output at a first frequency and a given object is not presented until a previously presented object is classified by the patient. Additionally the intensity of the audio output may be varied by increasing intensity of the audio output between each object in the sequence of objects at a predefined increment until the audio output is deemed audible by the patient and then decreasing intensity of the audio output between each object in the sequence of objects at a defined increment until the audio output is deemed inaudible by the patient.

The method may further include presenting a second set of objects sequentially such that each object in the sequence produces an audio output at a second frequency different than the first frequency and a first object in the second set of objects producing an audio output having an intensity equal to the threshold of hearing for the patient at the first frequency.

In another aspect of this disclosure a hearing assessment application is presented for conducting a hearing assessment of a patient using a mobile computing device. The hearing assessment application is comprised generally of a presentation manager a protocol manager and a controller. The presentation manager is configured to present a first set of objects sequentially on a display of the mobile computing device as well as receive an input from the patient for each object presented from the first set of objects where each object in the first set of objects produces an audio output at a first frequency in response to a stimuli from the patient and intensity of the audio output varies amongst the object presented from the first set of objects. The protocol manager determines an intensity value for the audio output produced by objects in the first set of objects in accordance with a medical testing protocol. The controller is configured to receive the intensity value for audio output produced by objects in the first set of objects and determine a threshold of hearing for the patient at the first frequency using the input received from the patient in the relation to the first set of objects.

This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features. Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The drawings described herein are for illustrative purposes only of selected embodiments and not all possible implementations and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The patient may also be prompted at with a visual cue to classify the sound producing objects. For example the patient is presented one container for objects whose sound is audible to the patient and another container for objects whose sound is inaudible to the patient. The task is to classify the objects by dragging the objects into one of the two containers. In this way input is received at from the patient for each of the presented objects where the input indicates whether the audio output for a given object was perceptible to the patient. It is noted that the visual cue is preferably displayed concurrently with the sound producing objects.

Once the series of objects have been presented to the patient an audiogram is generated at for the patient using the input received from the patient. The audiogram can then be displayed on a user interface of a computing device as shown in . In this example an audiogram is presented for each ear of the patient. The audiogram indicates the threshold of hearing for each frequency at which the patient was tested. The user interface may provide the capability of sending the audiogram to a designated recipient for example a treating physician. In other examples the audiogram may be generated and stored on the computing device but a simplified outcome is presented on the user interface to the patient. For example the patient is presented with a message such as this assessment did not detect any problems with your hearing or this assessment has detect a concern about your hearing please contact your physician or audiologist for further testing . Other types of outputs are contemplated by this disclosure.

Different types of game scenarios are envisioned. For example the patient may be presented sequentially with a series of bones as shown in . In this case the task is to drag the bone to either the barking dog or the sleeping dog . Bones producing sound that is audible to the patient are to be dragged to the barking dog whereas bones which produce sound that is inaudible the patient are to be dragged to the sleeping dog . In another example the patient is presented with three different objects concurrently where only one of the objects produces sound in response to a stimuli from the patient and the other two objects remain silent. In this example the patient must first identify the object that produces sound and then classify the object as in the other game scenarios.

Younger children may have difficulty understanding the sorting concept of the forced choice yes no paradigm. In a simplified variant the patient is presented with only one container and the task is to drag objects into this container if it produces sound. Objects that are not dragged into the container i.e. objects producing sound that is inaudible to the patient can be removed from the display a predetermined period of time e.g. 3 seconds after being stimulated by the patient. Other types of gaming scenarios will be readily apparent from these examples.

In the exemplary embodiment the sound producing object produces a unique tone e.g. a pure tone or warble tone at 500 1000 2000 or 4000 Hertz although more or less frequencies may be tested. A first object produces a sound at a predefined intensity for example 60 decibels. For each subsequent object the intensity of the sound may decrease with each presentation until the patient is unable to reproducibly sort the objects. The intensity of the sounds is subsequently increased. Thresholds of hearing are determined in accordance with standard medical protocols for example by the Hughson Westlake method. Once a threshold has been established at a given frequency objects that produce sounds at a different frequency are presented to the patient. The process is repeated until a threshold has been established across a range of predefined frequencies.

In a variant the hearing threshold is found following a bracketing technique e.g. up by 10 dB until heard down by 5 dB until not heard twice but the initial phase is sped up in two ways. For the first frequency the variant protocol goes from a fairly high presentation level e.g. 60 dB to a fairly low one e.g. 20 dB in just two steps testing only the presentation level in between e.g. 40 dB in the case on the way. The bracketing starts at the lowest presentation level successfully heard. For the other frequencies the bracketing starts at the previous hearing threshold for the same ear. Other variants to the bracketing technique are also contemplated by this disclosure.

Audiometric tests are preferably performed using pure tone signals as noted above. In free field these signals create standing waves which result in a non uniform sound intensity across the sound field. This coupled with unpredictable listener movements makes pure tone signals not suitable for use in a hearing assessment application. The ASHA guidelines recommend using frequency modulated FM tones with carrier frequency modulation rate and bandwidth as detailed by Walker et al in Sound field audiometry Recommended stimuli and procedures Ear and Hearing 5 13 21 1984 . In the exemplary embodiment specifications for wide bandwidth were chosen for the stimuli used in this hearing assessment application thus favouring sound field uniformity over audiometric accuracy.

In some embodiments silent objects may be randomly presented to the patient. Silent objects do not produce any sound. The silent objects are used as a measure of consistency or reliability. If a silent object is misclassified by the patient the assessment may invoke some corrective action. For example the patient may be presented with a demonstration of how objects are to be classified. Additionally or alternatively earlier portions of the assessment may be repeated or the patient may be administered a different type of hearing assessment.

In an exemplary embodiment the protocol manager is primarily responsible for determining the hearing threshold of the patient. To achieve this it can administer any suitable medical protocol e.g. the standard Hughson Westlake method noted above. The protocol manager communicates with the controller indicating what presentation level i.e. sound intensity to test next. Once a test is done the controller tells the protocol manager what the result was success or failure and the protocol manager uses this result to decide what to do next and whether or not a hearing threshold has been established for a given frequency.

The presentation manager manages the user interface presented to the patients and their interactions therewith. During operation the presentation manager receives a sound to test i.e. frequency and intensity from the protocol manager and in turn implements the test for example by presenting a suitable object on the user interface. Upon receipt of the patient input the presentation manager reports the patient input to the controller . The presentation manager is a generic software component that can be implemented on the user interface in a number of ways from a simple clicker that the patient pushes when a sound is heard to a more robust game scenario as described above in connection with . The presentation manager provides the ability to adapt the presentation to the skills and interest of the patient including the ability to change the user interface during the hearing assessment test.

The controller coordinates the interplay between the protocol manager and the presentation manager . More specifically the controller interacts with the protocol manager to find out which frequency and presentation level to test next and with the presentation manager to administer the test. The controller accumulates the results throughout the test and generates an audiogram upon completion of the test.

The controller at periodic intervals may interrupt the medical protocol and request the presentation manager to present a silent object for classification in order to see whether the patient will report hearing it. This step not usually taken in standard audiometry is necessary to ensure that the patient understands and follows the rules. If the patient reports hearing sound when there are none steps are taken ranging from repeating the test to switching to a different presentation to reporting a failure for that frequency in the audiogram unreliable . The controller preferably ensures that at least two silent object i.e. control sounds are being presented per frequency. If one of these control sounds is wrongly reported as being heard then at least one additional control sound is used. In addition the actual presentation level that was being tested when the control was failed will see additional tests being performed. In any automated version of the hearing assessment when a given percentage of controls have failed actual percentage set by parameter the controller automatically switches or suggests switching to a different type of presentation for example switching between the two alternative forced choice paradigm having two containers to one with a single container. If this choice is accepted then the entire frequency is retested. If the choice is declined then the test for that frequency is reported as unreliable in the audiogram.

The controller can monitors the background noise during the hearing assessment. That is the controller examines the frequency being tested to make sure that there is no interference with the test being run. If the background noise is too high the test can be rerun or a warning can be included in the audiogram.

The controller may also be configured to interface with another hearing assessment application residing on a second computing device. For example a first hearing assessment application operates to administer a test to a patient at one location while a second hearing assessment application is used by an audiologist monitoring the test remotely at a second location. During testing the second hearing assessment application presents to the audiologist in real time the presentation level for objects displayed to the patient along with the patient s response thereto. The second hearing assessment application may also present a video of the patient taking the test as captured by the first hearing assessment application. The controllers of each hearing assessment application can be configured to communicate with each other via a data link e.g. WiFi cellular satellite etc. .

In a profession version of the hearing assessment application the second hearing assessment application enables the audiologist or supervising person to intervene during the administration of the test. Rather than the protocol manager determining the presentation level for each presented object the protocol manager can receive input from the audiologist as to the presentation level. Should the audiologist decide to vary from the protocol being administered the audiologist can input the desired presentation level into the second hearing assessment application. The second hearing assessment application will pass the desired presentation level to the first hearing assessment application which will in turn implement the variance in the testing protocol.

In an exemplary embodiment the hearing assessment application resides a tablet computing device such as the Apple iPad as shown in . Touch interfaces commonly found on tablet computing devices enable even the youngest of users to interact intuitively with complex systems. Thus the tablet appears is the preferred environment to implement a portable automated hearing assessment application targeted at children. While reference is made to the tablet computing device it is readily understood that the hearing assessment application may be implemented on other types of computing devices including laptop or desktop computers. In other embodiments the hearing assessment application may be implemented using professional grade audiometry equipment.

Tablet computers typically house a built in speaker and microphone. In some embodiments a headset including an earphone and microphone may be available as an accessory. The headset will connect to an audio port through a TRRS connector and the microphone s flat frequency response makes it suitable for high quality sound recordings. In other embodiments the headset may be further defined as a bone transducer headset

For the hearing assessment app an appropriate scenario would include playing sounds through the built in speakers of the tablet while using an external microphone to monitor background noise. If the framework of the tablet does not permit using the built in route for output and the external route for input third party accessories could be used such as the Cocoa framework. In the Cocoa framework the Audio Toolbox application programming interface API used to read and write audio provides a means for redirecting audio routes to select either the built in microphone and speaker or an external headset. The API however does not permit using the built in route for output and the external route for input. One solution consists of using third party accessories like TouchMic s Handsfree Lapel Microphone Adapter to connect an external microphone and loudspeakers to the audio port. An added benefit of this solution is the ability to move the loudspeakers around to make optimal use of the room acoustics. It is however possible to use an external USB microphone with the built in speaker using an USB adaptor. Other arrangements for interfacing an external microphone and or speaker to the tablet are also contemplated.

Calibrating an audio system is critical before it is used to perform any scientific measurement. When a hearing test is run in an open field the conditions of the room e.g. volume texture of walls objects at the scene and well as the instruments used e.g. amplified loudspeakers are not known in advance and require a specific calibration session. Such calibration could be conducted by a specialist equipped with the necessary material but this solution is highly unpractical. Accordingly the hearing assessment application implements a two step technique which allows a fully automated calibration on site.

In some embodiments the hearing assessment system is comprised generally of a tablet computer hosting the hearing assessment application along with an external microphone that will be used for the room calibration. The input received through the microphone must itself be calibrated during a first calibration step. The first calibration step is done preferably inside a soundproof room or another type of acoustically controlled environment. In that setting the microphone is plugged into the tablet computer. A calibrated sound level meter i.e. SPL meter is placed next to the microphone as close to it as possible. For each tested frequency a sound is produced by the system being calibrated. The speakers may be those integrated into the tablet computer or an external speaker system coupled to the tablet computer. During calibration the volume of sound at a given frequency is captured and recorded by the SPL meter. Meanwhile the power received from the microphone is also recorded thereby determining the correspondence between the presentation level i.e. sound volume and the power received by the microphone. While this first calibration step may be repeated at different volumes a single test per frequency is enough as the power for other volumes at the same frequency can be inferred linearly from the one reading. The first calibration step can then be repeated for each frequency being tested.

With reference to the second step is an automated calibration performed at the site where the hearing assessment will take place i.e. the testing environment . Before a hearing assessment is performed in an open field setting a fully automated calibration is performed the hearing assessment application. If applicable the tablet computer is hooked up to an external speaker system that will be used during the hearing assessment. The microphone that was used in the first calibration step is positioned as close as possible to where the head of the patient will be during the hearing assessment. Thus the conditions in which the assessment will be performed are matched as closely as possible. The on site calibration procedure is then initiated.

On site calibration will be performed for each frequency at which hearing assessment occurs. A given frequency is selected at from a listing of frequency to be tested. The system being calibrated outputs a sound at the selected frequency. The system in turn determines the power input at the microphone as indicated at . The determined power input is compared at to the expected power input which was acquired during the first calibration step. If the determined power input does not match the expected power input the volume of the sound is adjusted at until the determined power input matches the expected power input. In an exemplary embodiment the volume of the sound is increase at predetermined increments e.g. 5 decibels until the determined power input matches the expected power input. If the determined power input exceeds the expected power input then the volume of the sound can be decreased at a smaller increment for example 1 decibel until the determined power input matches the expected power input.

Once the determined power matches the expected power at a given frequency another frequency is selected and the process is repeated as indicated at until the system has been calibrated for each frequency tested during the hearing assessment. In this way the hearing assessment application provides a fully automated open field calibration technique.

A feasibility study of the hearing assessment application was performed. Study participants were recruited from patients presenting to the Audiology Clinic at the Children s Hospital of Eastern Ontario. The inclusion criteria for this study comprised children at least 3 years of age with normal or abnormal hearing. The exclusion criteria for the study included patients with previously diagnosed visual impairment learning disability or developmental delay. The aim was to enroll 80 patients into the study.

Participants completed two sequential audiometric evaluations in a double walled sound booth one with the hearing assessment application implemented on a tablet and one with traditional play audiometry assessing warble tone thresholds. The order in which participants performed the two assessments was determined randomly by the flip of a coin. For the sake of simplicity and speed unmasked air conduction was the sole investigation in this study. Sound field testing was performed if the child was not amenable to wearing headphones and binaural testing was performed in all other children. Stimuli were presented using TDH 39 headphones in both the tablet and audiologist test scenarios. When sound field testing was employed the sound booth speaker system or the tablet speakers were used. An audiologist accompanied participants in both groups to provide motivation during the assessment. The tablet computer headphones and speakers that were used in this study were professionally calibrated to ANSI S3.6 2004 standards.

Given the novel nature of both the method and the testing hardware no prior studies were available from which to calculate a sample size. A sample size of 80 consecutive patients was selected based on related publications comparing automated hearing tests to standard audiometry. Five additional children were recruited to allow for possible subject dropout.

The primary outcome measure consisted of warble tone thresholds obtained by both the tablet audiometer and by standard play audiometry. Normal hearing was defined as a threshold of less than or equal to 25 dB in each of the 4 test frequencies 500 1000 2000 or 4000 Hz . Hearing loss was defined as audiometric thresholds greater than 25 dB in any of 4 test frequencies. Secondary outcomes related to participant performance were also documented including time to completion as well as feedback from the audiologists. In the tablet group test reliability was evaluated by calculating the percentage of correctly sorted silent objects

Participants were excluded from analysis for 1 technical gameplay issues 2 behavioural issues or 3 questionable reliability defined as incorrectly assigning greater than 50 of the silent objects. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize participant characteristics. Student s t test with Bonferroni correction was used to compare secondary outcomes between the two groups. Preliminary evaluation of the tablet s performance was determined using a two by two table and calculations of sensitivity specificity positive and negative predictive value and likelihood ratios positive were calculated.

A more intricate analysis of the concordance between the two hearing assessments was also performed. In order to test for overall differences between modalities tablet versus play audiometry a repeated measures model for the detection threshold in each ear at each frequency was fitted using linear mixed effects modeling. The model included fixed effects for testing modality tablet versus play audiometry frequency and ear. In order to account for the correlation of thresholds within participants random effects modeling was used for frequency nested within ear nested within participant.

85 consecutive patients who met the inclusion criteria were recruited into the study. 15 patients were excluded after hearing assessment resulting in 70 subjects available for analysis. Fourteen of the 70 patients were tested using a sound field. The remainder 56 had binaural assessments for both hearing evaluations. The mean age of study participants was 5.2 years range 3 13 .

Fifteen subjects were excluded from the analysis. Four were excluded from analysis due to poor reliability 

Overall 55 patients were identified to have normal hearing by conditioned play audiometry the traditionally accepted standard test. Of these 52 were found to have normal hearing by tablet audiometry. The 3 remaining children scored slightly outside the defined parameters of normal hearing namely a 30 dB threshold in at least one frequency. This appeared to either be due to the child moving through the game too quickly or the presentation timing out before the child could make a decision.

The mean time to complete a binaural hearing test with the tablet was 152 s SD 114 s overall. In the group with normal hearing the time was 109 s SD 65 s . This increased to 317 s SD 113 s in children with abnormal hearing. The difference in test duration was statistically significant p

53 patients in total had normal evaluation by tablet audiometry. One of these children was found to have a true mild hearing loss. This child appeared to understand the game but their results did not correlate well. The reliability score of this patient when using the table was only 75 . However he did not meet reliability criteria for exclusion 

For the repeated measures analysis 56 participants with valid results and binaural testing were available. Patients who were tested with a sound field were excluded from this particular analysis as ear specific information was not available making analysis impossible.

The model showed no significant effect of testing modality compared to audiologists the mean tablet threshold was 0.21 dB lower 95 Cl 0.18 to 0.6 dB p 0.29 . The modeling was repeated for the abnormal cases n 15 and for the normal cases n 41 . In both cases the model showed no significant effect of testing modality. Compared to play audiometry the mean tablet threshold was 1.13 dB lower 95 Cl 0.27 to 2.52 dB p 0.12 and 0.12 dB higher 95 C 0.02 to 0.27 dB p 0.10 respectively.

This disclosure describes the first trial of both a novel play algorithm using interactive audiometry and a new tablet audiometer. It is the first tablet based semi automated play audiometer to be used in a pediatric setting. The purpose of this study was two fold to validate the tablet audiometer as a child friendly application for hearing assessment as well as to compare tablet thresholds to the traditionally accepted standard play audiometry.

The data reveal that the tablet audiometer produces warble tone thresholds that are in agreement with the accepted standard traditional play audiometry . This was achieved with narrow confidence intervals suggesting sufficient statistical power. Audiometric data are acquired in an efficient manner as demonstrated by a mean test duration of approximately 2.5 minutes. Moreover the data reveals a high specificity 94.5 with a negative predictive value NPV of 98.1 denoting that tablet audiometry is a robust screening tool. The single patient who represented the 1.9 deficiency in NPV had 5 dB of agreement between his tablet and play audiometry thresholds and this is well within an acceptable margin of error. A likelihood ratio positive of 11.5 confirms the tablet audiometer s capacity to diagnose hearing loss .

As the tablet audiometer is by definition an objective test if calibrated adequately it is not likely to be subject to issues with inter rater reliability. However it will be prudent in subsequent investigations to ensure strong inter rater and test retest reliability.

Conditioned play audiometry can often be employed with children as young as 2 years of age. The supervision and motivation given to the child by a second audiologist in the sound booth allows these very young children to be tested. In the current study this second audiologist was present for both assessments tablet and traditional to maximize the successful completion of assessments although attaining the appropriate level of support from the audiologists required training and experience.

The data suggests that using the tablet interactive audiometry method the majority 82 70 85 of children as young as 3 years of age are capable of understanding the concept of the game and completing the hearing assessment. Despite the supervision of an audiologist however some children had difficulties with the tablet audiometer. These difficulties resulted from technical deficiencies of the hardware software i.e. attempts to open other software failure to understand drag and drop becoming distracted by visual re enforcements and behaviors of the patient i.e. boredom poor comprehension of the game . A number of these difficulties eventually lead to the subject being excluded from the statistical analysis. Failure to complete the assessment also appeared to be more prevalent in children with abnormal hearing.

Several technical gameplay issues were documented during data collection. In particular children showed signs of fatigue with either test method quite quickly. During standard play audiometry audiologists often switched games several times during standard play audiometry to keep the child engaged. By contrast only two games were available when using the tablet with the current software version. This stresses the importance of maintaining attention in this particular age group.

Furthermore due to the nature of interactive audiometry whereby the test is user directed action is required at each point in the decision tree. This gives the appearance of more decisions as compared to standard audiometry where users who did not hear a sound were not required to perform an action. This was exacerbated in children with hearing loss who were required to sort more objects in order to determine exact thresholds. For example when testing a normal hearing individual the minimum number of objects to complete an entire assessment was 16. This number increased to a maximum of 113 when hearing loss was present or unreliable results were being obtained. The average number of objects presented in hearing loss was 67.1 SD 19.1 . For children with normal hearing the average was 23.8 SD 9.45 p

Several limitations to this study are also discussed. Firstly the majority of patients were normal hearing children. This is simply a reflection of the patient population when conducting sequential recruitment. However a test population that is predominantly normal hearing will bias the study toward good correlation and successful completion of the relatively shorter hearing test. Second the methods of the analysis excluded patients who were identified as having clear difficulty with the hearing assessment. This was done to ensure that the results reflect only the performance of the hardware. Although exclusion of difficult patients limits the generalizability of the results this analysis was deliberately used during this hardware validation phase. The proportion of patients excluded from analysis 18 15 85 insinuates a high degree of user friendliness especially given the potentially difficult patient population. Additionally this emphasizes the importance of audiologist supervision as the software is currently unable to determine if a child fully comprehends the game. Further gameplay refinement will likely increase the number of patients who are suitable candidates for tablet audiometry.

The techniques described herein may be implemented by one or more computer programs executed by one or more processors. The computer programs include processor executable instructions that are stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable medium. The computer programs may also include stored data. Non limiting examples of the non transitory tangible computer readable medium are nonvolatile memory magnetic storage and optical storage.

Some portions of the above description present the techniques described herein in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the described techniques include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the described process steps and instructions could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable medium that can be accessed by the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatuses to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition the present disclosure is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present disclosure as described herein.

The present disclosure is well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks comprise storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the disclosure and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the disclosure.

