---

title: Cloud service level attestation
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for measuring and attesting to service levels offered by a service provider in a computing system implemented with a distributed virtual infrastructure. In one example, a method comprises the following steps. Information is maintained relating to one or more services offered by one or more service providers in accordance with a distributed virtual infrastructure. One or more service level claims associated with the one or more services are validated. A subscriber is sent validation results for at least a portion of the one or more services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959195&OS=08959195&RS=08959195
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08959195
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
The field relates to computing systems implemented with a distributed virtual infrastructure and more particularly to techniques for measuring and attesting to service levels offered by a service provider in a computing system implemented with a distributed virtual infrastructure.

As is known today more and more companies that rely on computing technology are adopting the approach of owning nearly no physical computing assets themselves but rather have turned to the information technology IT computing model known as cloud computing. For example as per the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Special Publication No. 800 145 cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

In this environment many cloud services have been proposed including but not limited to Computing as a Service CaaS Software as a Service SasS Platform as a Service PaaS and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS . As such IT offerings become more standardized and commoditized the cloud trend is only going to accelerate such that IT administrators individuals or groups that manage or at least assist with IT assets and issues for an entity such as an enterprise or business will have many choices of cloud service providers SP that offer the same cloud service. Choosing the correct SP will be a challenge for the IT administrator.

Embodiments of the invention provide techniques for measuring and attesting to service levels offered by a service provider in a computing system implemented with a distributed virtual infrastructure.

In one embodiment a method comprises the following steps. Information is maintained relating to one or more services offered by one or more service providers in accordance with a distributed virtual infrastructure. One or more service level claims associated with the one or more services are validated. A subscriber is sent validation results for at least a portion of the one or more services. In one example the information maintaining step may further comprise providing a database for storing the information relating to the one or more services offered by the one or more service providers in accordance with the distributed virtual infrastructure.

In another embodiment a computer program product is provided which comprises a processor readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs. The one or more software programs when executed by at least one processing device implement steps of the above described method.

In yet another embodiment an apparatus comprises a memory and a processor operatively coupled to the memory and configured to perform steps of the above described method.

In a further embodiment a system comprises the following components. A cloud service broker database is configured to maintain information relating to one or more cloud services offered by one or more cloud service providers. A cloud service broker processor is operatively coupled to the cloud service broker database and configured to validate one or more service level claims associated with the one or more cloud services and send to the subscriber validation results for at least a portion of the one or more cloud services.

Advantageously illustrative embodiments described herein provide techniques that assist IT administrators in selecting a cloud service offering from a service provider from among multiple service providers each offering a similar cloud service. This is accomplished using a cloud service broker that validates service level claims made by the service provider in order to provide the IT administrator with a level of assurance that the cloud service that is ultimately selected will serve its purpose and operate at an acceptable service level.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description.

Embodiments of the invention will be described herein with reference to exemplary computing systems and data storage systems and associated servers computers storage units and devices and other processing devices. It is to be appreciated however that embodiments of the invention are not restricted to use with the particular illustrative system and device configurations shown. Moreover the phrases computing system and data storage system as used herein are intended to be broadly construed so as to encompass for example private or public cloud computing or storage systems as well as other types of systems comprising distributed virtual infrastructure. However a given embodiment may more generally comprise any arrangement of one or more processing devices.

More particularly embodiments of the invention provide a cloud service broker CSB system that aids IT administrators in selecting a service provider for a particular cloud service. The CSB system measures i.e monitors and attests to i.e validates the service level agreements SLAs offered by a service provider. This monitoring and validation service that the CSB system itself offers to IT administrators or other subscribers is referred to as a Cloud Service Level Attestation as a Service CSLAaaS .

Also shown in CSB system is operatively coupled to cloud service providers . . . N. Cloud service providers are the provider entities that host or otherwise provide the cloud services that a particular corporation or other enterprise desires.

As will be described in detail herein below CSB system offers to subscribers . . . M the above mentioned CSLAaaS. This service includes but is not limited to the following functions. CSB system performs for its subscribers experimental validation and attestation of service level claims of one or more of the cloud service providers . . . N. Also CSB system continuously monitors the service levels over some duration i.e. a given time period. Such time period can be specified by a subscriber. Further details of the CSB system will be provided below.

It is to be appreciated that part of or all of system can be implemented in the cloud service broker system environment in . For instance CSB system can be implemented in CSB system of . However parts of CSB system can be implemented in subscribers . . . M and or cloud service providers . . . N of . Still further CSB system can be implemented in part or in whole in one or more other computing devices or systems not shown in the cloud service broker system environment of .

Although system elements and are shown as separate elements in these elements or portions thereof may be implemented at least in part on a common processing platform. In other embodiments one or more of the system elements and may each be implemented on a separate processing platform such as the processing platform to be described below in conjunction with . For example the cloud infrastructure may be implemented on a first processing device of a first processing platform and CSB system may be implemented on a second processing device of a second processing platform. It is also to be understood that a given embodiment of the system may include multiple instances of the system elements and although only single instances of such elements are shown in the system diagram for clarity and simplicity of illustration.

As shown in the cloud infrastructure corresponding to in comprises virtual machines VMs . . . N implemented using a hypervisor . The hypervisor is an example of what is more generally referred to herein as virtualization infrastructure. The hypervisor runs on physical infrastructure e.g. such as may include CPUs and or storage devices in . The cloud infrastructure further comprises sets of applications . . . N running on respective ones of the virtual machines . . . N utilizing associated LUs under the control of the hypervisor .

Although only a single hypervisor is shown in the example of a given embodiment of cloud infrastructure configured in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may include multiple hypervisors each running on its own physical infrastructure. Portions of that physical infrastructure might be virtualized.

As is known virtual machines are logical processing elements that may be instantiated on one or more physical processing elements e.g. servers computers processing devices . That is a virtual machine generally refers to a software implementation of a machine i.e. a computer that executes programs in a manner similar to that of a physical machine. Thus different virtual machines can run different operating systems and multiple applications on the same physical computer. Virtualization is implemented by the hypervisor which as shown in is directly inserted on top of the computer hardware in order to allocate hardware resources of the physical computer physical infrastructure dynamically and transparently. The hypervisor affords the ability for multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a single physical computer and share hardware resources with each other.

An example of a commercially available hypervisor platform that may be used to implement portions of the cloud infrastructure in one or more embodiments of the invention is the VMware vSphere which may have an associated virtual infrastructure management system such as the VMware vCenter . The underlying physical infrastructure may comprise one or more distributed processing platforms that include storage products such as VNX and Symmetrix VMAX both commercially available from EMC Corporation of Hopkinton Mass. A variety of other storage products may be utilized to implement at least a portion of the cloud infrastructure .

An example of a processing platform on which the cloud infrastructure and or CSB system of as well as the components of environment in may be implemented is processing platform shown in . The processing platform in this embodiment comprises at least a portion of the system and or environment and includes a plurality of computing devices denoted . . . P which communicate with one another over a network . One or more of the elements of system may therefore each run on a server computer or other processing platform element which may be viewed as an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a computing device or a processing device . As illustrated in such a device generally comprises at least one processor and an associated memory and implements one or more functional modules for controlling certain features of system . Again multiple elements or modules may be implemented by a single processing device in a given embodiment. In one example a subscriber of can utilize one or more computing devices of CSB system of can utilize one or more computing devices of and a cloud service provider of can utilize one or more computing devices of .

The computing device in the processing platform comprises a processor a memory input output devices and a network interface . The processor may comprise a microprocessor a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other type of processing circuitry as well as portions or combinations of such circuitry elements. The memory may be viewed as an example of what is more generally referred to herein as a computer program product. A computer program product comprises a processor readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs. Such a memory may comprise electronic memory such as by way of example only random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or other types of memory in any combination. The computer program code when executed by a processing device such as the computing device causes the device to perform functions associated with one or more of the elements of system . One skilled in the art would be readily able to implement such software given the teachings provided herein. Other examples of computer program products embodying embodiments of the invention may include for example optical or magnetic disks.

The computing device also includes input output I O devices for example one or more devices or mechanisms for inputting data to the processor and or memory for example keyboard or mouse and one or more devices or mechanisms for providing results associated with the processor and or memory for example display or printer .

Also included in the computing device is network interface circuitry which is used to interface the computing device with the network and other system components. Such circuitry may comprise conventional transceivers of a type well known in the art.

The other computing devices of the processing platform are assumed to be configured in a manner similar to that shown for computing device in the figure.

The processing platform shown in may comprise additional known components such as but not limited to batch processing systems parallel processing systems physical machines virtual machines virtual network switches storage volumes logical units etc. Again the particular processing platform shown in the figure is presented by way of example only and system may include additional or alternative processing platforms as well as numerous distinct processing platforms in any combination.

Also numerous other arrangements of servers computers storage devices computing devices or other components are possible in system . Such components can communicate with other elements of the system over any type of network such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a satellite network a telephone or cable network or various portions or combinations of these and other types of networks.

The cloud service broker maintains a CSB database with the following content stored therein in the following fields associated with the example schema 

where SLA list of Performance SLAs such as latency and throughput for various workload types Data Protection SLAs such as RPO Recovery Point Objective and RTO Recovery Time Objective Availability SLAs such as Five 9 s classic availability standard Security SLAs such as Complete Tenant Isolation where Offering the type of service being offered by SP e.g. Amazon s EC2 S3 or EBS Elastic Block Store where Platform the type of virtual computing platform being offered to host the service e.g. Vmware or Xen and where Price is the cost associated with the service.

With regard to SLA performance it is to be understood that the CSB database may take into account performance measures beyond just storage performance. This may include compute and network resource performance as well. Thus for example CSB database can also take into account measures such as MIPS millions of instructions per second the number of transactions OLTP online transaction processing security level and tenancy attributes.

As shown in embodiments of the invention provide several mechanisms to keep the CSB database populated and maintained with up to date data. By way of example only 

 1 The cloud service provider offers e.g. publish input data to the database via an API application programming interface not expressly shown in but assumed to be part of CSB to the CSB . This data would constitute an initial seed which would then be independently verified by the CSB .

 2 Feedback from the subscribers IT administrator themselves via an API portal not expressly shown in but assumed to be part of CSB to the CSB .

 3 The CSB performs independent measurement and verification. While the first two mechanisms are understood in a straightforward manner we explain the third one in more detail. The CSB conducts targeted experiments. The CSB continually uses the cloud service provider as would an actual user and measures the database inputs that it is able to measure e.g. adherence to performance SLAs and data protection SLAs can be measured. Also a method can be used to determine that tenant isolation if offered is honored. Outage information can be measured directly because the CSB is constantly using the service provider s entire ensemble of features and can verify claims of availability SLAs.

Some SLAs can be validated without needing cooperation from the cloud service provider . Examples of such validation mechanisms are as follows 

 1 For a Storage as a Service such as S3 performance SLAs such as Object put get times can be measured remotely.

 2 For application level performance offered by a combination of services such as EC2 EBS CSB can instantiate VMs run common applications and validate the performance SLAs such as Transactions second in a TPC H like environment where TCP H Transaction Processing Performance Council is an ad hoc decision support benchmark.

 3 Data protection SLAs can be measured by creating replicas triggering DRs disaster recovery plans etc.

However there may be SLAs that have to be measured with the cooperation of the cloud service provider such as reliability SLAs and possible participation of the end customer in case the application is unique . For these cases embodiments of the invention provide plug in agent mechanisms e.g. software applets called SLA validator agents where service provider allows CSB to trigger specific actions to create scenarios to measure SLAs. The agents are designed so as not to interfere with the other customers data and applications. As shown in the embodiment of CSB maintains validator agents on the cloud service provider . These validators include but are not limited to performance SLA validator data protection SLA validator security SLA validator and availability SLA validator . The validators are placed at the service provider by the CSB e.g. by the CSB downloading them to the service provider so that they are instantiated on the service provider.

It should again be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration only. Many variations may be made in the particular arrangements shown. For example although described in the context of particular system and device configurations the techniques are applicable to a wide variety of other types of information processing systems computing systems data storage systems processing devices and distributed virtual infrastructure arrangements. In addition any simplifying assumptions made above in the course of describing the illustrative embodiments should also be viewed as exemplary rather than as requirements or limitations of the invention. Numerous other alternative embodiments within the scope of the appended claims will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

