---

title: Solar panel storage and deployment system
abstract: The assembly defines a series of accordion-like folds along the length thereof when in its folded state. The assembly arrays the panels in a substantially planar arrangement when the assembly is in its deployed state. The system also includes at least one stake adapted to be anchored to a position in proximity to and outside of the container. At least one link is provided for coupling an end of the assembly to the stake(s) when the assembly is in its deployed state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08988037&OS=08988037&RS=08988037
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08988037
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to solar panel assemblies and more particularly to a system that provides for the storage and deployment of solar panels.

Many military and civilian operations in remote areas require the generation of on site electrical power. The cost of deploying fuel for generators and camp lighting can be quite expensive in terms of both fuel cost and the difficulty of delivering such fuel along potentially dangerous routes. In an effort to reduce the number of fuel delivery convoys alternative energy sources are being explored. Many regions such as the desert areas of the Middle East are especially conducive to the use of solar power systems. Unfortunately existing systems suffer from one or more shortcomings related to functionality and or efficiency optimization. Some are cumbersome to set up. Most do not consider array protection during storage and shipment. Still others do not provide for deployment angle adjustability relative to the sun s seasonal orientation to garner maximum power yield.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a storage and deployment system for solar panels.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a solar panel storage deployment system readily adapted to become a self contained power generator.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a solar panel storage and deployment system easily optimized for seasonal orientations of the sun.

In accordance with the present invention a solar panel storage and deployment system includes a container having an opening formed therein. Also included is an assembly of solar voltaic panels transitionable between a folded state and a deployed state. The assembly defines a series of accordion like folds along the length thereof when in its folded state. The assembly arrays the panels in a substantially planar arrangement when the assembly is in its deployed state. The assembly has a first end and a second end with the first and second ends remaining in the container when the assembly is in its folded state and the second end positioned outside of the container when the assembly is in its deployed state. The system also includes at least one stake adapted to be anchored to a position in proximity to and outside of the container. At least one link is provided for coupling the second end of the assembly to the stake s when the assembly is in its deployed state.

Referring now to the drawings simultaneous reference will be made to where a system for the storage and deployment of a number of solar panels is shown and is referenced generally by numeral . System is illustrated in its folded state i.e. not deployed from container in and in its deployed state in . System is positioned at an installation site e.g. a natural ground location a man made platform or pad etc. having a clear view of the sun . While system could be permanently installed at location a great advantage of the present invention is its ability to provide for the secure safe storage and shipping of solar panels to installation site followed by the simple deployment of the solar panels into an efficient collector of solar energy. The system also provides for simple efficient pack up transport and re deployment if needed. Accordingly the description of system will focus on the features providing these capabilities.

System includes a container that houses the elements of system during the storage shipping and deployment thereof. Some of these elements in conjunction with container also provide support for one side of a solar panel assembly as will be described later herein. Container can be a standardized container e.g. an ISO container or a specially designed container without departing from the scope of the present invention. Container will typically be of rigid construction.

As used herein the term solar panel refers to a flexible or rigid solar voltaic panel that when exposed to solar energy generates DC power. One commercial source for flexible solar voltaic panels is Xunlight Corporation Toledo Ohio. One commercial source for a rigid solar panel e.g. poly crystalline cells mounted in a rigid metal frame is Suntech San Francisco Calif. Thus the term solar panel assembly as used herein includes pre made solar panels as well as a plurality of solar cells arranged into solar voltaic panels where the panels can be flexible or rigid without departing from the scope of the present invention. By way of illustrative example the embodiment in illustrates a number of spaced apart solar panels mounted coupled to a flexible substrate where width spanning regions of substrate can be folded. Such folding occurs in an alternating or accordion like fashion. To facilitate such accordion like folding each of regions can incorporate a hinge such that the solar panel assembly is thereby defined by panels substrate and hinges . Each hinge is capable of movement that will support the solar panel assembly in its folded state and in its deployed state . That is in the assembly s folded state arms and of each hinge oppose one another to form an angle of approximately 0 . However in the assembly s deployed state arms and of each hinge align with one another to form an angle of approximately 180 . For the above described accordion folding hinges alternate in terms of their opening orientation as would be understood in the art. If hinges incorporate a spring bias to the 180 position hinges can facilitate the transition from the assembly s folded state to its deployed state. Conversely if hinges incorporate a spring bias to the 0 position hinges facilitate the transition from the assembly s deployed state to its folded state. Spring biasing of hinges can be achieved in a variety of ways without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The number of solar panels used in the above described solar panel assembly is not a limitation of the present invention. Flexible substrate can be any material that can support panels and withstand the rigors of an operational environment. For example flexible substrate could be a tensile fabric such as fabrics made from commercially available fibers such as KEVLAR or SPECTRA fibers. Hinges can be simple one piece plastic hinges or multiple piece hinges without departing from the scope of the present invention. The coupling of hinges to substrate can be achieved in a variety of ways that are not limitations of the present invention. Substrate can extend the full length of the solar panel assembly as shown or between adjacent ones of hinges without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Deployment and retraction of the assembly from and into container is made via opening A formed in container where opening A can be sealable. While the solar panel assembly is in its folded state solar panels are in a substantially vertical orientation within container and the assembly can be supported on a bearing support mounted housed in container . In general bearing support e.g. slide rails slide table etc. provides a sliding support platform on which the lowermost ones of hinges slide as the solar panel assembly transitions to its deployed state and transitions back to its folded state. More specifically one end of the assembly e.g. an end A of substrate remains attached to bearing support as the other end of the assembly e.g. an opposing end B of substrate is drawn out through opening A of container .

When the solar panel assembly is deployed as shown in end B is coupled to a stake by a link . Stake is any rigid support that can be fixed at a point outside of container at installation site . Link can be integrated with substrate or stake or can be attachable thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention. In general stake and link cooperate to place substrate and hinges in tension i.e. hinges in the 180 position to thereby define a planar support for panels . Further stake and link cooperate to set the angle relative to sun of the planar support provided by substrate and hinges to thereby set the angle of panels with respect to sun . In this way the present invention can optimize the angular orientation of panels relative to the seasonal orientation of sun . Link can be adjustable in length e.g. a ratchet strap and or made from an elastic material e.g. elastic band bungee cord etc. to provide the requisite amount of tension in flexible substrate hinges to help maintain a substantially planar orientation of substrate hinges in the deployed state of the solar panel assembly.

Retraction and re packing of the solar panel assembly from its deployed state to its folded state is simply a reversal of the deployment process. That is in general link s are detached from stake s and possibly the solar panel assembly . The solar panel assembly is then accordion folded where such accordion folding can be aided by hinges if they incorporate a spring bias to the 0 position as explained above. While this can be accomplished manually retraction and re packing could also be facilitated by a spool cooperating with a retraction member s as illustrated by the embodiment in . More specifically a spool is housed mounted in container for rotation in two directions about its central axis as indicated by two headed arrow . Rotation can be induced by manual rotation of spool . Spool can be torsionally biased to facilitate retraction of the solar panel assembly when it is being re packed. Still another option is to provide a motor in container that is operationally coupled to spool to induce rotation . During retraction re packing rotation is used to refold the solar panel assembly at hinges . In the illustrated embodiment one or more flexible retraction cords are coupled one end thereof to spool and on the other end thereof to end B of substrate . To keep the solar panel assembly aligned during the refolding operation cords can also be passed through rings attached to hinges near the outside edges thereof and at for example the top of the folded assembly as shown. In this way as cords are wound on spool end B is pulled back towards container as the solar panel assembly refolds along the lines defined by cords until it is ultimately stored in container on bearing table . Rings could be replaced by holes in hinges without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In addition to the mechanical storage and deployment features provided by the present invention an electrical system can be provided to cooperate with solar panels so that the present invention is a self contained power provider. presents a schematic view of an embodiment of a simple electrical system coupled to panels . Since panels typically generate DC power an AC DC converter converts the panels DC power to AC power. One or more AC power outlets can be coupled to converter . One or more batteries could also be provided between panels and converter to store the panels generated DC power until it is needed by appliances or other systems not shown coupled to AC power outlets . The electrical system can include different and or additional elements as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. The electrical system can be housed within container .

As mentioned above stake and link cooperate to tension and angularly orient the solar panel assembly of panels substrate hinges . An example of a stake and link is illustrated in . Stake includes an anchoring end designed to be readily driven into the ground at location site . The particular design of end is not a limitation of the present invention. The exposed portion of stake defines a number of attachment points along its length height. For example attachment points could be notches formed in stake . Link could be a tension member e.g. elastic band bungee cord ratchet strap etc. coupled to end B of substrate and to one of attachment points . The choice of attachment point will determine the angular orientation of substrate and therefore the angular orientation of panels coupled thereto.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Solar arrays are safely and securely stored for shipping but readily deployed once on site. A simple angular orientation system allows the orientation of the panels to be easily adjusted for optimum capture of solar energy. By using a foldable solar panel assembly the storage size of the assembly is optimized for storage. An onboard electrical system can be added to make the entire system a self contained AC power source.

Although the invention has been described relative to specific embodiments thereof there are numerous variations and modifications that will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

