---

title: Providing client system support
abstract: In one embodiment, a support request message is received. Further, a check is made to determine whether a support request repository includes an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message. When the analogous support request is included in the support request repository, a response associated with the analogous support request is sent. When the analogous support request is not included in the support request repository, a client system connection associated with the support request message is determined. Furthermore, when the client system connection is established, the support request message, and a plurality of related prior support request messages and associated responses are sent to an escalation support unit. Also, a response received from the escalation support unit, and the support request message, are stored in the support request repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838715&OS=08838715&RS=08838715
owner: SAP AG
number: 08838715
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120525
---
Embodiments generally relate to information technology and more particularly to methods and systems to provide client system support.

Information technology support services have evolved to play a proactive role due to increase in the number and complexity of the software products. The information technology support services include support units to provide solution or suggestions to the issues raised by clients related to the software products. Typically when an issue is raised by a client support associates of the support unit strive to collect required information determine the nature of the issue and communicate the solution to the client. Therefore efficiency of the support unit depends heavily on the skills and expertise of the support associates.

Further information such as issues and the associated solutions are dispersed across management systems product manuals developer communities and technical documentations. Moreover many times such information is available in unstructured format and the support associates may need to spend considerable time in searching for prior related issues. The support associates may find it tedious to respond to the same kind of issues raised over time. Therefore the support unit may not necessarily meet the always on requirements of the client. Furthermore such a process is highly time consuming and often not reliable.

Embodiments of techniques to provide a client system support is described herein. According to various embodiments support system refers to a system by which an organization provides a range of services to the clients pertaining to organization s products by solving specific problems associated with the products. The support system includes escalation support units to provide solutions or suggestions to the issues or problems raised by the clients related to the products. The issue is included in a support request message created at a client system. The escalation support units may include a plurality of support associates expertized in products of the organization.

According to one embodiment support request messages are analyzed at a support request repository before being sent to the escalation support unit. When a support request message is received a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message is present in the support request repository. When the analogous support request message is present a response associated with the analogous support request message is used to respond to the received support request message. Thereby the escalation support unit is not involved in responding to the same kind of support request messages raised over time.

Further when the analogous support request message is not present a client system connection is checked to allow an escalation support unit to access a client system for responding to the support request message. Furthermore when the client system connection is established the support request message and related prior support request messages are sent to the escalation support unit to assist in providing a response to the support request message. In addition the response provided by the escalation support unit is stored in the support request repository along with the support request message for future reference. Thus the process of responding to the support request messages is made efficient.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Further when the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository a client system connection is checked to allow an escalation support unit to access the client system for responding to the support request message. When the client system connection is not established a request message to provide client system connection information is sent to the client system . Further when the client system connection is established the support request message and related prior support request messages are sent to the escalation support unit . The related prior support request messages may be prior support request messages stored in the support request repository dealing with similar issue as of the support request message but may not be analogous to the support request message. The related prior support request is described with an example in . In addition the response provided by the escalation support unit is stored in the support request repository along with the support request message for future reference. Thus the process of responding to the support request messages is made efficient.

At step a check is made to determine whether a support request repository includes an analogous support request message analogous to the received support request message. In one embodiment the support request repository is an in memory computing database including one or more prior support request messages and associated responses. Further the analogous support request message in the support request repository is determined using natural language processing NLP technique. At step a response associated to the analogous support message is sent to the client system. The process of determining the analogous support request message and sending the response associated with the analogous support message is described with an example in .

At step when the analogous support request is not included in the support request repository a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message to allow an escalation support unit to access the client system is established. In one exemplary embodiment the client system connection includes log in details of the client system. The client system connection is described in greater detail in .

At step when the client system connection is not established a request response for providing the client system connection details is sent to the client system. At step when the client system connection is established also e.g. the support request message is sent to an escalation support unit for analyzing the support request message and providing a response or solution to the support request message. In addition a plurality of related prior support request messages and associated responses are sent to the escalation support unit for assisting in providing the response to the support request message. Further the related prior support requests and associated responses are determined using techniques such as NLP technique. The related prior support requests are described in greater detail with an example in .

At step the response corresponding to the support request message is received from the escalation support unit. The escalation support unit provides the response to the support request message using the plurality of related prior support request messages and the associated responses. At step the support request message and the corresponding response are stored in the support request repository for future reference. Further the response is sent to the client system.

At step a support request message is sent from the client system to the support request repository . An example of the support request message is depicted in . With reference to the support request message includes client details support request message details a subject e.g. time error in product c a body and a client system connection . The client details include but are not limited to client s name address of the client and contact details. The support request message details include but are not limited to details of operating system of the client system a product details to which the issue is concerned e.g. software product name and version date and time at which the support request message is sent priority of the support request message e.g. high or low or medium and a status of the support request message e.g. new or in process or completed .

At step upon receiving the support request message a check is made to determine whether the support request repository includes an analogous support request analogous to the support request message. Each prior support request message in the support request repository is checked to find the analogous support request message for the support request message e.g. using techniques such natural language processing NLP . An example of the analogous support request message analogous to the support request message of is depicted in . With reference to both the support request message e.g. of and analogous support request message are related to a same issue e.g. time error in component c as depicted in subject line e.g. and and the body of the support request messages e.g. and . Since the analogous support request message is present in the support request repository a response associated with the analogous support request message e.g. body e.g. of the response is sent to the client system e.g. step . The process followed when the analogous support request is not present in the support request repository is described in .

At step a support request message is sent from the client system to the support request repository . Further at step a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message for the support request message is present in the support request repository as described in . When the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message is established to allow an escalation support unit to access the client system e.g. step . In one exemplary embodiment the client system connection includes log in details of the client system . The log in details may include but are not limited to a system identifier ID user ID and password. The support request repository attempts to connect to the client system using the client system connection e.g. of .

In one embodiment when the connection to the client system cannot be established with the available system connection details e.g. a request response for providing the client system connection details is sent e.g. step . The process followed upon receiving the system connection details from the client system or when the connection to the client system is established with the available system connection details e.g. is described in .

At step a support request message is sent from the client system to the support request repository . Further at step a check is made to determine whether an analogous support request message analogous to the support request message is present in the support request repository as described in . At step when the analogous support request message is not present in the support request repository a check is made to determine whether a client system connection associated with the support request message is established to allow the escalation support unit to access the client system .

At step when the client system connection is established the support request message is sent to the escalation support unit for providing a response to the support request message. Further a plurality of related prior support request messages corresponding to the support request message are sent to the escalation support unit . An example of related prior support request messages is shown in . With reference to the related prior support request messages include suggestions for providing the response to the support request message e.g. of . In one exemplary embodiment the suggestions include subject lines of the related prior support request messages e.g. . Further the related prior support request messages and the associated responses may be viewed by clicking on the subject line of the related prior support request messages.

In one embodiment a support associate of the escalation support unit provides the response to the support request message e.g. of using the suggestions e.g. . At step the response is sent to the support request repository . Further at step the response and the support request message are stored in the support request repository for future reference and the response is sent to the client system e.g. step . Thereby the support associates may not respond to same kind of support request messages. Further client system connection checks are performed without human intervention. Furthermore by providing the related prior support request messages corresponding to the support request message makes responding to the support request message easy and less time consuming.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open DataBase Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

