---

title: System and method for initiating video phone calls
abstract: The disclosed embodiments include a system and method for initiating a video phone call using a standard phone device. For instance, in one embodiment, a method for initiating a video phone call from a first party to a second party is disclosed. The method includes receiving a call from the first party. The call is initiated using a standard phone device. The method determines whether the call is a voice call or a call request to initiate a video call. In response to a determination that the call is a call request to initiate a video call, the method terminates the call, initiates a call to a video phone device of the first party and also a communication device of the second party. The method establishes a communication session between the video phone device of the first party and the communication device of the second party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08976227&OS=08976227&RS=08976227
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 08976227
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for providing communications and more particularly to one or more systems and methods for initiating video phone calls.

Video phone calls have become ubiquitous in today s society enabling people to remotely communicate simultaneously using both video and audio. For instance a user may utilize a computer laptop or tablet device for initiating and communicating through video phone calls. However older generations or non technical non Internet savvy people may find this process too complicated and simply rely on the standard landline phone devices for making phone calls.

The disclosed embodiments seek to provide solutions or improvements for enabling non technical people to utilize their standard landline telephones for initiating video phone calls.

The disclosed embodiments include a system and method for initiating a video phone call using a standard phone device. In one embodiment a method for initiating a video phone call from a first party to a second party includes receiving a call from the first party. The call is initiated using a standard phone device. The method determines whether the call is a voice call or a call request to initiate a video call. In response to a determination that the call is a call request to initiate a video call the method terminates the call initiates a call to a video phone device of the first party and also to a communication device of the second party. The method establishes a communication session between the video phone device of the first party and the communication device of the second party.

The disclosed embodiments and advantages thereof are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings. Other features and advantages of the disclosed embodiments will be or will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional features and advantages be included within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. Further the illustrated figures are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environment architecture design or process in which different embodiments may be implemented.

Beginning with an example of a flowchart depicting a process for initiating video phone calls utilizing a standard phone device is presented in accordance with the disclosed embodiments. As referenced herein a standard phone device means a communication device that is not capable of communicating via video calls. The standard telephone may include analog digital and VOIP telephony. The process begins by receiving an outgoing phone call request from a calling party also referred herein as party A at step . The calling party is a user that is initiating a phone communication. In this embodiment the user initiates the call request utilizing a standard phone that is configured to communicate over the plain old phone service POTS wire line phone network.

At step the process determines whether the outgoing phone call request is for regular voice communication or whether the outgoing phone call request is for initiating a video phone call. For instance in one embodiment a user may dial TV i.e. 88 VC video calls which is equivalent to 82 or any other predetermined code identifier that indicates a request for initiating a video phone call. If the process determines that the outgoing phone call request is for regular voice communication the process at step performs normal call processing for establishing the voice communication session with a called party.

However if the process determines that the outgoing phone call request is for initiating a video phone call the process at step receives a phone number or identifier associated with a called party also referred herein as party B . In one embodiment the process may initiate a second dial tone for receiving the phone number. A message may also be played to request that the user enter the phone number.

After receiving the phone number or identifier the process at step disconnects the current phone communication session. In one embodiment the process may automatically disconnect call. In another embodiment the process may play a message requesting that the user hang up the standard phone device and answer a video phone device when it starts ringing. The video phone device may be any communication device operable to provide video and audio communication. The video phone device may also include a camera and a microphone for capturing audio and video communication. For example in one embodiment the video phone device may be a TV phone box that provides a network connection for receiving video and audio communication. The TV phone box is attached to a TV or other display device for enabling audio and video communication.

At step the process initiates a video call to at least one video phone device associated with the calling party. The process determines whether the video call is answered at step . If the video call is not answered the process ends. If the video call is answered the process places the calling party on hold at step . A message may be played to indicate that the calling party is being placed on hold while the called party is being reached.

The process initiates a call to the called party Party B at step . In one embodiment the process determines at step whether the phone number or identifier associated with the called party is associated with both standard phone devices and video phone devices. For instance a service provider may assign a universal number to a subscriber that is utilized by people trying to call the subscriber. The service provider may link the universal number to different call identifiers associated with one or more communication devices of the subscriber to enable the service provider simultaneously ring one or more of the communication devices in response to receiving a call to the subscriber.

If the process determines that the phone number identifier is associated only with standard phone devices or only with video phone devices the process at step sends a ring signal to the determined devices. If the process determines that the phone number identifier is associated with both standard phone devices and video phone devices the process at step may send a ring signal to all devices simultaneously.

At step the process determines whether the call to the called party is answered. If the call is answered the process at step determines whether the call was answered by a standard phone device or by a video phone device. If the process determines that the call is answered by a standard phone device the process at step establishes only voice communication between the calling party and the called party. If the process determines that the call is answered by a video phone device process at step establishes video and audio communication between the calling party and called party.

The process monitors for a call end acknowledgment at step . If the process receives a call end acknowledgment the process terminates the call session between the calling party and the called party at step with process terminating thereafter.

Referring now to an example of a network environment is depicted for initiating video phone calls utilizing a standard phone device in accordance with one embodiment. In the depicted embodiment a location has a plurality of communication devices including standard phone devices and video phone devices . Location not described in detail depicts similar communication devices as location for initiating voice calls and video calls.

The video phone devices and are communication devices that are capable of receiving both audio and video communication over an Internet Protocol IP network. The video phone devices and may be device that is connected to display device such as but not limited to to a television. Alternatively the video phone devices and may be a device having an integrated display and audio input output components. The video phone devices and may be configured to communicate via wired or wireless means with a router access point for enabling the video phone devices and to send and receive data over an IP network.

In this embodiment the standard phone devices and are wired communication devices that are operable to communicate via a POTS wire line phone network . The POTS wire line phone network also commonly referred to as the public switched phone network PSTN comprises the world s public circuit switched phone networks that are inter connected by switching centers to enable any phone in the world to communicate with any other.

The POTS wire line phone network includes a switch . The switch may be a class 5 switch that is deployed at a central office CO of a service provider for providing local and long distance telephony services. In accordance with the disclosed embodiments the switch may be specially configured to identify a call request from a standard phone device to initiate a video call e.g. identifying all TV calls and route calls identified as video calls to a Service Control Point SCP for further processing to initiate the video call. In an alternative embodiment an off hook delay trigger can capture all outbound calls and allow the SCP to determine if the dialed string is a video request call from a standard phone device. Calls not identified as a call request to initiate a video call i.e. regular phone calls are processed as usual by the switch .

The SCP is configured to provide services such as service creation session control and protocols for enabling the standard phone devices to initiate video phone calls. The SCP bridges the communication between the POTS wire line phone network with other technological or network domains in order to utilize cross platform network applications. For instance in one embodiment the SCP communicates with an Enhanced Services Gateway ESG to convert legacy POTS messaging to standard IP based protocols. In the depicted embodiment the ESG communicates with a Service Capability Interaction Management SCIM platform that provides service capability interaction management for services from different domains such as between the POTS wire line phone network and an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network . The ESG may be configured to communicate with the SCIM platform using Parlay which is a set of specifications for industry standard application programming interfaces APIs for managing network edge services such as call control messaging and content based charging. The ESG may also be configured to communicate with the SCIM platform using Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

The SCIM platform is operable to interact with one or more Applications Servers for providing different services. For instance in accordance with the disclosed embodiments the SCIM platform may communicate with an Application Framework AF SIP Server for translating and correlating PSTN numbers into SIP addresses. A SIP address is an identifier e.g. john.smith 212.123.1.213 that is associated with a communication device that enables calls to be made to the communication device using SIP i.e. voice over IP calls . For instance the AF SIP Server may communicate with a database and or may store data that correlates the SIP addresses of a subscriber s communication devices capable of receiving IP calls to the subscriber s PSTN number. This information may be utilized to ring back the caller s video phone devices and for initiating the video call as described in . This information may also be used to simultaneously ring all communication devices i.e. IP communication devices and PSTN communication device of a called subscriber in response to receiving a video call to the subscriber.

In an alternative embodiment the ESG may be configured to communicate directly with the one or more applications servers such as but not limited to the AF SIP Server . The one or more applications servers may be independent of the IMS network and directly receive the Parlay or SIP requests from the ESG .

The SCIM platform may also interact with a Call Session Control Function CSCF server . The CSCF server is responsible for all signaling via Session Initiation Protocol SIP in the IMS network . The CSCF server may perform a Domain Name System DNS look up and a Home Subscriber Server HSS look up to determine where to send SIP messages whether in its own network or another network. The HSS contains subscription related information subscriber profiles performs authentication and authorization of the user and can provide information about the subscriber s location and IP information. The CSCF server may also be responsible for policy decisions such as determining how much bandwidth to make available to a communication device when it seeks to establish a session. In some embodiments the CSCF server may act as the first point of contact for the IMS terminals e.g. the router access point . In other words the CSCF server may be configured to establish the video call connection with a calling party and or called party s video phone devices.

Alternatively in other embodiments the CSCF server may communicate with a Session Border Controller SBC server which acts as the first point of contact for the IMS terminals. The SBC server may be responsible for setting up conducting and tearing down phone calls or other interactive media communications. The SBC server may also be configured to provide subscriber authentication signal inspection traffic policing for maintaining a QoS policy of a network compression and decompression and other services.

The CSCF server may also communicate with one or more media servers . The media servers may perform Real Time Protocol RTP media processing for IP based audio video and other applications such as but not limited to VoIP audio and IP video conferencing media mixing Multimedia Ringback Tones MRBT Interactive Voice and Video Response IVVR and IP to IP Transcoding.

The network environment illustrated in and described above enables a standard phone device to initiate a video call through the POTS wire line phone network . In contrast to illustrates a network environment that enables a standard phone device to initiate a video call without communicating through the POTS wire line phone network .

In accordance with the network environment a standard phone device such as standard phone device is connected to an analog phone adapter ATA for enabling it to communicate through the router access point . The standard phone device is then able to initiate regular VOIP calls or may initiate calls to request a video phone call be made e.g. by dialing TV or some other pre specified code or number . In this embodiment the standard phone device may also be a regular VOIP enabled phone that does not require an external analog phone adapter.

In network environment the calls are not routed through the POTS wire line phone network but instead are routed to the Call Session Control Function CSCF server through the Session Border Controller SBC server . The CSCF server determines whether the call is a regular VOIP call or a call request to initiate a video call. Regular VOIP calls are processed as usual by the CSCF server . If a call is identified as a call request to initiate a video phone call then the CSCF server will initiate the video phone call between at least one of the calling party s video phone devices e.g. video phone device and a communication device of a called party. In one embodiment the CSCF server will only ring video phone devices of the called party so that a video call connection may be established. In other embodiments the CSCF server may simultaneously ring all communication devices associated with a called party. If the call is answered by the called party on a video phone device then the CSCF server will establish a video call session. If the call is answered by the called party on a non video phone device i.e. a standard phone device then the CSCF server will establish just a voice call between the calling party and called party.

In addition in some embodiments the CSCF server and or one or more other devices within network environment may be configured to make routing decisions based on one or more video call settings or factors. For example in one embodiment the CSCF server may store location information associated with the video phone devices and the standard phone devices of a subscriber. In response to receiving a request to initiate a video phone call from a standard phone device the CSCF server may be configured to ring back a video phone device located closest to the standard phone device initiating the request e.g. a video phone in the same room or office as the initiating standard phone device .

Still in other embodiments the video phone device may be selected based upon pre specified user preferences and or based upon real time network performance information. For instance a user may specify a particular video phone device that provides a particular level of video and or audio quality for video calls to from a particular party and or for calls that require a minimum bandwidth level e.g. a business call or a group call .

Another video call factor may be cost. For example unimportant calls or calls to from children within a household may be placed to a low quality bandwidth video phone device to reduce cost. The CSCF server may also be configured to notify a user if a video call should not or cannot be placed at a certain time such as but not limited to when the real time network performance information indicates congestion that would affect the quality of a video call or when the call is made during peak hours thereby costing more than a user pre specified cost threshold.

Accordingly the above description enables a system and method for initiating a video phone call using a standard non video phone device. Advantages of the disclosed embodiments include but are not limited to enabling older generations or non technical non Internet savvy people to initiate video calls using their standard phone devices.

It is understood by those skilled in the art that each of the devices described in may comprise of one or more processors logic and data storage components e.g. memory hard disk drives that are operable to store and execute data and computer executable instructions to performing the functions of the disclosed embodiments. In addition each of the devices may include one or more wired or wireless network interface components and input output components for enabling communications with other devices.

Additionally computer program instructions for executing the disclosed embodiments may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the data processing system to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the data processing system provide processes for implementing the functions acts of the disclosed embodiments.

The terminology used herein is for describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprise and or comprising when used in this specification and or the claims specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In addition while the above description describes various embodiments the disclosed description is not intended to limit the structure or implementation of the disclosed embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that various modifications may be made and that the teachings disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and may be applied to numerous applications. For instance the steps illustrated in the process shown in may be modified by deleting one or more steps adding one or more steps and or combining one or more the steps. For example while depicts the steps of receiving an outgoing call request step and receiving a phone number or identifier associated with a called party step as two separate steps the steps may be combined into one. For example the outgoing call request may include the phone number or identifier associated with a called party. For instance a caller wishing to initiate a video call may dial TV the called number the switch or other devices could be configured to recognize the TV code and parse out the called number.

Moreover the number and types of devices illustrated in are presented merely as an example and are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed inventions. For instance although the example illustrates the same switch in direct communication with both the devices at location and location one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that there may be numerous switches along a communication path. Similarly the subscribers IMS terminals such as the router access point may be connected to different CSCF servers and or SBC servers.

Other such modifications and variations of the present teachings are intended by to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

