---

title: System and method for providing simplified programming constructs for user activities in a telecommunications application
abstract: In accordance with embodiments of the invention, the converged application framework of a converged application server is extended by providing a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs effecting user activities without detailed knowledge of the underlying SIP level protocol and events. In particular embodiments the present invention provides new communication beans implementing particular user activities including, for example, subscribing to the status of a user mailbox.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426238&OS=09426238&RS=09426238
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09426238
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The current invention relates to a system and method for providing simplified programming constructs for user activities in a telecommunications network.

With the explosive proliferation of IP enabled mobile and fixed devices capable of offering Web telecommunications and entertainment services for example 3G 4G enabled smart phones TVs home appliances gaming consoles and automobiles operators of mobile broadband and fixed networks are faced with the operational and business challenges of delivering innovative IP based communication services with maximum profitability. In order to achieve this goal operators are increasingly migrating away from expensive closed proprietary and application specific legacy platforms and towards low cost open standards based unified converged application platforms which dramatically lowers the time and cost of adding new features and extensions to existing IP based communication services.

Session Initiation Protocol SIP is a control signaling protocol developed to manage interactive multimedia IP sessions including IP telephony presence and instant messaging. SIP is widely used in telecommunication networks. SIP however is not readily compatible with HTTP and use in the Internet domain. Moreover SIP and other communications centric protocols are complex and their implementation requires significant domain expertise.

SIP Servlets provide a standard Java Java is a registered trademark of Oracle America Inc. programming language API programming model for delivering SIP based services. SIP Servlet APIs expose the full capabilities of the SIP protocol in a Java and Java Enterprise Edition EE middleware solution. The SIP Servlet APIs also enable multiple applications to execute on the same request or response independently of one another. Thus application developers can write applications providing features that are independent of each other but can be deployed to the same host SIP Servlet container. SIP Servlet APIs thereby provide a programming model that is as well suited to meet the needs of the application developer and the operational requirements of the network operator.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the converged application framework of a converged application server is extended by providing a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs effecting user activities without detailed knowledge of the underlying SIP level protocol and events. In particular embodiments the present invention provides new communication beans implementing particular user activities.

There are many use cases in which a converged application operating on multiple services protocols is desirable. A converged application using both SIP and HTTP functions can be used for example for conferencing click to call applications Presence and User Agent Configuration Management applications. A converged telecommunication application framework is a framework designed to abstract complexities for SIP Servlets to provide a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs.

The SIP Servlet API is closely aligned with the Java EE specifications and containers that host SIP Servlet applications can also make Java EE features such as a HTTP Servlet container available to developers. Converged applications can also combine other protocols such as Diameter to perform advanced functions such as modifying subscriber profile data. A converged application server can thus deliver a converged application container offering integrated support for Java EE SIP Web Services and IMS standards.

Oracle Communications Converged Application Server OCCAS provides a carrier grade open standards based converged Web telecom application platform based on the SIP Servlet Java EE Web Services and IMS standards. It is designed for a wide range of IP based communication enabled applications such as VoIP multimedia conferencing SIP IMS based call control and messaging services. OCCAS includes a converged telecommunication application framework designed to abstract the complexities of SIP Servlets and provide a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs without detailed knowledge of the underlying SIP level protocol and events.

OCCAS provides what are called Communication Beans which provide event functions. The event functions of Communication Beans handle the SIP protocol and many other industry specifications from OMA 3GPP and IETF event. The developer can write logic to modify the behavior of the event functions. This is done from the perspective of modifying the behavior of communication it is handling rather than modifying the SIP protocol actions.

A typical telecommunication application contains not only interactions between the participants of the communication but also activities it can carry out on a telecommunication application server. Examples of such user activities are registration and observing the status of a mailbox. However prior to the present invention there was no Application Programming Interface API that treats such user activities in a generic and simplified way. Thus creating applications implementing these user activities requires detailed knowledge of the underlying SIP level protocol and events.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the converged application framework of a converged application server is extended by providing components which encapsulate user activities in a generic and simplified way. The components are in some embodiments configurable using annotations or using an xml file.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention is provided with applications which allow developer implementation of user activities without detailed knowledge and or manipulation of the underlying SIP level protocol and events.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when read in light of the accompanying drawings.

In the following description the invention will be illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings. References to various embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations are discussed it is understood that this is provided for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

Furthermore in certain instances numerous specific details will be set forth to provide a thorough description of the invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in as much detail so as not to obscure the invention.

Common reference numerals are used to indicate like elements throughout the drawings and detailed description therefore reference numerals used in a figure may or may not be referenced in the detailed description specific to such figure if the element is described elsewhere. The first digit in a three digit reference numeral indicates the series of figures in which the element first appears.

A typical telecommunication application contains not only interactions between the participants of the communication but also activities it can carry out on a telecommunication application server. Examples of such activities are registration and observing the status of a mailbox etc. The present invention provides an Application Programming Interface API that treats userActivities in a generic and simplified way. The application uses Session Initiated Protocol SIP Servlet APIs to implement these activities in a protocol centric fashion on a converged application server.

A converged telecommunication application framework is a framework designed to abstract complexities for SIP Servlets to provide a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs. The SIP Servlet API application programming interface is closely aligned with the Java EE specifications and it is expected that containers that host SIP Servlet applications also make Java EE features available to developers. The most notable of these features is the HTTP Servlet container. There are many use cases in which a converged application using both SIP and HTTP functions is required from conferencing to click to call applications to Presence and User Agent Configuration Management applications. Converged applications can also combine other protocols such as Diameter to perform advanced functions for example modifying subscriber profile data.

The SIP Servlet API also enables multiple applications to execute on the same request or response independently of one another. This is another very powerful feature of the SIP Servlet API. It allows application developers to be able to write applications providing features that are independent of each other but can be deployed to the same host SIP Servlet container.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a converged telecommunication application framework including a set of easily usable artifacts which enable easy creation of programs effecting user activities without detailed knowledge of the underlying SIP level protocol and events. As part of converged application framework a new API is provided to describe a UserActivity. An ActivityParticipant initiates this UserActivity and an application typically consisting of a Communication Bean in the server processes the Activity. In particular embodiments the present invention provides new communication beans implementing particular userActivities.

Prior to the invention development of an application needed to include all the SIP signaling needed for service using low level APIs. These low level APIs are adequate for very basic tasks but higher level building blocks are needed for more advanced tasks. This is especially true for massively concurrent applications that fully exploit today s multiprocessor and multi core systems. Thus one of the embodiments of this invention allows new APIs describing UserActivities to be abstracted at a very high level that are completely programmable. Ready access to these APIs reduces the cost of developing communication services significantly.

Furthermore there are a number of specifications that each application needs to conform to while developing communication services in general. Standard conformance is built in behind the high level APIs of this invention which ensures standards compliance. The programming APIs available prior to the invention required developers to handle the protocol level details in order to achieve the conformance which was always error prone. The programming model has built in extensibility that allows newer user activities to be developed easily. This helps in exposing newer high level services as APIs.

Communication Bean is a stateless Java object which can be programmed by annotations. Communication Bean handles the SIP protocol and other telecom industry specifications from OMA 3GPP and IETF by default and thus hides the SIP level transactions from the developer. The developer can write logic to modify the behavior of the Communication Bean . The behavior of the Communication Bean with respect to the UserActivity can be modified using annotations embedded within the code of the Communication Bean or by using a configuration file sft.xml . The developer can thus program UserActivity features at a business logic level rather than handling SIP level transaction programming.

As shown in UE sends a subscribe message to P CSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function and P CSCF sends a subscribe message to S CSCF Serving Call Session Control Function . At S CSCF evaluates the subscribe message according to certain filter criteria. S CSCF then sends subscribe message to MWI running on application server AS . In process MWI obtains subscriber authorization for the subscription. OK messages are then transmitted through S CSCF and P CSCF back to user equipment . Notification test messages are then transmitted through S CSCF and P CSCF back to user equipment . OK messages are then transmitted through P CSCF and S CSCF back to MWI indicating success.

In transactions subsequent to subscription a notification is generated by MWI in response to a message waiting condition. Notification messages are then transmitted through S CSCF and P CSCF to user equipment . OK messages are then transmitted through P CSCF and S CSCF back to MWI indicating success of the notification.

Within the converged application framework When a SUBSCRIBE message arrives the framework notifies an application by a communication event named SUBSCRIPTION. When detecting this event an application can get the MessageObservation and the ActivityParticipant which is the current subscriber from the CommunicationContext.

To illustrate MessageObservation is a child interface of UserActivity. A SIP phone sends a SUBSCRIBE SIP message to the telecommunication server to initiate this activity. Upon receiving the request the framework which includes an embodiment of the invention will create MessageObservation as a UserActivity and will provide the UserActivity to the application. The application can then set the Message status on the UserActivity which the framework will use to notify the SIP phone with the message summary.

The UserActivity API encapsulates and extends the communication. The UserActivity API has a number of ActivityParticipants.

According to RFC3842 a NOTIFY should be sent out when accept a new subscription the subscription is expired or unsubscription occurs. OCCAS Oracle Communications Converged Application Server Event Notification Service sends these NOTIFY messages automatically. MWI modifies the MessageSummary object in at least the first SUBSCRIPTION event to ensure the message is correct. When MWI needs to send notifications it can find the MessageObservation by resourceId via CommunicationService. With MessageObservation MWI can get the MessageSummary. After update the information MWI invokes the MessageObservation process to send NOTIFY message out.

To illustrate MessageObservation is a child interface of UserActivity. A SIP phone sends a SUBSCRIBE SIP message to the telecommunication server to initiate this activity. Upon receiving the request the framework which includes an embodiment of the invention will create MessageObservation as a UserActivity and will provide the UserActivity to the application. The application can then set the Message status on the UserActivity which the framework will use to notify the SIP phone with the message summary.

The present invention may be conveniently implemented using one or more conventional general purpose or specialized digital computer computing device machine or microprocessor and or network of same programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure.

Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

The various embodiments include a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a general purpose or specialized computing processor s device s to perform any of the features presented herein. The storage medium can include but is not limited to one or more of the following any type of physical media including floppy disks optical discs DVDs CD ROMs microdrives magneto optical disks holographic storage ROMs RAMs PRAMS EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs paper or paper based media and any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or information. The computer program product can be transmitted in whole or in parts and over one or more public and or private networks wherein the transmission includes instructions which can be used by one or more processors to perform any of the features presented herein. The transmission may include a plurality of separate transmissions. In accordance with certain embodiments however the computer storage medium containing the instructions is non transitory i.e. not in the process of being transmitted but rather is persisted on a physical device.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations can be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

