---

title: Remote active window sensing and reporting feature
abstract: A system and method is provided for remote active window sensing of a display in a computing device and reporting of the same. The system includes a tool including a remote monitoring and reporting component configured to monitor active windows of one or more remote devices and provide a report to a presenter as to whether the active windows of the one or more remote devices are for a presentation of the presenter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918527&OS=08918527&RS=08918527
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08918527
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120717
---
The present application is a continuation application of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 968 835 filed on Jan. 3 2008 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The invention generally relates to a system and method for computer systems and more particularly the invention relates to a system and method for remote active window sensing of a display in one or more computing devices and providing a reporting of the same.

More and more teams work in remote corners of the globe. As a result it is not uncommon for the members of a single project team to gather and present to each other using telephones and various remote conferencing technologies. Numerous technologies exist to facilitate such exchanges including International Business Machine Corp. s Collaboration Tools e.g. e meetings . International Business Machine Corp. and e meetings are trademarks of International Business Machine Corp. in the United States other countries or both .

This trend has allowed businesses to distribute work to teams composed of the most cost effective talented people regardless of their locations. However call in meetings and presentations also have a number of distinct disadvantages. One of the most notable of these disadvantages is that participants who are not speaking are often distracted and may multi task by using other computer applications while a speaker is presenting their materials. While few of us would be rude enough to pick up a newspaper and read it during a speaker s presentation in a face to face meeting most people think nothing of checking their e mail exchanging instant messages or working on another assignment in the middle of a presentation that is being done by a remote speaker. This leads to inefficient meetings and in some cases such distractions actually detract from the presentation itself.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a tool comprises a remote monitoring and reporting component configured to monitor active windows of one or more remote devices. The remote monitoring and reporting component is also configured to provide a report to a presenter as to whether the active windows of the one or more remote devices are associated with a presentation of the presenter.

In another aspect of the invention a method is provided for deploying a monitoring and reporting feature. The method comprises providing a computer infrastructure operable to request and monitor active window status on one or more remote devices receive the active window status generate a report of the active window status and provide the report to a presenter of material on a computing device.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product is provided for monitoring active window status on a remote device and generating a report of the active window status. The computer program product comprises a computer readable media which includes first program instructions to request active window status of one or more remote devices which have enabled a monitoring and reporting function requested by a presenter of material second program instructions to generate a report to the presenter as to whether active windows of the one or more remote devices are associated with a presentation of the presenter and third program instructions to provide the report to the presenter in a reporting screen. The first second and third program instructions are stored in a computer system for execution by a central processing unit.

The invention generally relates to a system and method for monitoring active windows displayed on one or more computing devices. More specifically the invention is configured to sense or monitor active windows on a remote computing device and provide a report of the displayed active windows to a requestor e.g. a presenter of material. In operation the invention would limit multi tasking of remote users during a presentation by monitoring and reporting which active windows are being displayed on the remote user s device. Thus in implementation the application on the remote user s device e.g. attendee would not only display the presentation material but would report back to the presenter which active windows are being displayed on the attendees devices. The method could enforce a degree of participation that does not exist in current remote presentation technology.

In embodiments the present invention is configured to be used with Intranet Extranet or Internet applications which offer a user the capabilities of providing presentational materials to remote users. More particularly the present invention is configured to monitor and or sense hereinafter generally referred to as monitor which active windows are being displayed on a remote computing device during a presentation over for example the World Wide Web. A report can be sent back to the presenter providing relevant information such as for example which remote devices are currently displaying the presentation materials etc.

The present invention can be provided by a service provider third party or be built directly into a presentation application such as for example International Business Machine Corp. s Collaboration tools e.g. e Meeting . The present invention can also be built directly into other applications such as Microsoft s Netmeeting and WebX. Microsoft and Netmeeting are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both. Alternatively the system and method of the invention can be resident on the user s computing device independent of the collaboration tool or service provider.

Alternatively the environment may be a computing device of the presenter using the collaboration tool such as for example e Meeting. In this implementation the device would be integrated into the illustrative environment and more particularly would be part of the computing device represented by reference numeral . Also in this implementation unlike when using a service provider the system and method of the invention hereinafter referring to as a remote monitoring and or reporting tool would preferably be built directly into the collaboration tool although it should be understood that the remote monitoring and or reporting tool may simply reside on the computing device to be activated by the user independently of the collaboration tool.

In any situation the illustrative environment includes a computer infrastructure that can perform the processes described herein. In particular the computer infrastructure includes the computing device that comprises the remote monitoring and or reporting tool . The remote monitoring and or reporting tool includes Program Code Logic implementing the features of the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. In embodiments prior to or during a presentation the Program Code Logic sends a request in embodiments through the service provider to each agent A on each remote device requesting participation with the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. Upon enablement the remote monitoring and or reporting tool will request which active windows are being displayed on the remote devices . The request can be provided over any type of communications link such as for example any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In turn the agent A determines which window is active on the remote devices by invoking the Application Programming Interface API on the remote devices . In addition the agent A can determine the status of additionally specified windows by invoking the API on the remote devices regardless of whether they are active or not. These processes can be performed periodically at predetermined intervals e.g. every one minute or alternatively the request can be sent periodically at predetermined intervals e.g. every one minute. As should be understood the API is a source code interface that an operating system or library provides to support requests for services to be made of it by computer programs. In embodiments the user s of the remote devices may have the ability to disable the monitoring function and reporting function of the remote monitoring and or reporting tool.

Once a determination is made as to which active window is displayed on the remote device the agent A sends the active window information to the computing device which depending on the application can be the service provider or the presenter . The computing device in turn can use this information to generate a report and display such report on an external I O device of the presenter. In the embodiment of a service provider it would be the service provider that generates the report and sends such report to the presenter. The I O device can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. In this implementation the I O external device is representative of a display although the external I O device resource may be keyboards pointing devices etc.

Still referring to the computing device includes a processor a memory A an input output I O interface and a bus . The memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code including the Program Logic Code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Further the computing device is in communication with the external I O device resource and a storage system B.

In general the processor executes computer program code including the Program Logic Code which is stored in memory A and or storage system B. While executing computer program code the processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device .

The computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computer infrastructure using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments the computing environment represents a service provider such as a Solution Integrator. The service provider could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement.

Prior to the initiation of a presentation the presenter will request the enablement of the service from the service provider S . At the request of the presenter the service provider S will initiate the service allowing in some embodiments for each of the attendees to enable or disable the service. In this case the service provider S will report back to the presenter with such information as 

In the case of opting for enablement of monitoring and reporting during the presentation the active windows of the attendees remote devices will be monitored by the API via the agent . The status of the active windows will be transmitted back to the presenter via the service provider S . In embodiments though agents of the attendees remote devices can report directly to the presenter bypassing the service provider S . In this implementation though it is preferable that all communications be directed through the service provider S thereby allowing the service provider S to generate the reports and freeing resources on the device of the presenter . The attendees if given the option may select to disable the reporting during the presentation.

The reports can include for example which windows are active on which attendee device and or whether the presentation window is active. In other contemplated reports the report will inform the presenter whether a system failure or a maintenance issue has or is occurring on any attendee device or whether attendee devices are receiving a common message which would be the active window . In embodiments depending on the participation of the attendees the presenter can continue with the presentation postpone the presentation request the attendees to display the presentation window as the active window or take some other action.

Prior to the initiation of a presentation the presenter will activate the remote monitoring and reporting tool directly from his her device and preferably via the collaboration tool. In this case the presenter and more specifically the remote monitoring and or reporting tool will send a request to the attendees . In embodiments the attendee may opt out of the monitoring and reporting by a user selectable interface. In such a case the attendees will provide the selected option to the presenter . The presenter will present the materials using the collaboration tool resident on its computing device regardless of whether the attendee s have opted out of the monitoring and reporting.

In the case of opting for enablement of monitoring and reporting during the presentation the active windows or windows specified to be monitored of the attendees remote devices will be monitored by the API via the agent . The status of the monitored windows will then be transmitted back to the presenter . The remote monitoring and or reporting tool can then generate reports. The attendees if given the option may select to disable the reporting during the presentation.

As discussed with reference to the reports can include for example which windows are active on which attendee device and or whether the presentation window is active. In other contemplated reports the presenter can determine whether a system failure or a maintenance issue has or is occurring on any attendee device or whether attendee devices are receiving a common message which would be the active window . In embodiments depending on the participation of the attendees the presenter can continue with the presentation postpone the presentation request the attendees to reactive the presentation window or take some other action.

The invention can take the form of hardware and software elements. The hardware and software elements include a computer infrastructure configured to implement the functionality of the present invention. The computer infrastructure may take the form for example of the environment of . The software elements may be firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

At step the presenter requests the remote monitoring and or reporting service from a service provider. At step the presenter opens the appropriate collaboration tool and establishes the required presentation technology to support the presentational materials. At step the service provider provides options to the presenter for activating the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. These options may include for example 

When the presenter selects the option of continuing with the presentation without the monitoring and reporting feature at step the service provider will continue with initiating the presentation without the remote monitoring and reporting feature of the present invention. At step the presenter will receive confirmation of the selected option from the service provider. The presenter can present the presentation materials without the monitoring and reporting functions of the present invention.

When the presenter selects the enable monitoring or enable monitoring with permissions at step the service provider will activate the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. At step the selected option may then be passed back to the collaboration tool presenter for confirmation. At step the presenter can present the presentation materials with the option of either monitoring or monitoring with permissions. In embodiments the service provider can wait in a stand by mode for the next request.

At optional step the service provider will activate the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. As should be understood the remote monitoring and or reporting tool can be implemented through a service provider or can be built directly into the collaboration technology e.g. e meeting or be resident on the computing device of the presenter and initiated upon execution of the collaboration technology depending on the desired application. In the latter embodiment the monitoring and or reporting tool can be a standalone component which can then be used with any number of collaboration technologies. Thus although shows an implementation of using the service provider it should be understood by those of skill in the art that can equally represent the remote monitoring and or reporting tool being activated directly from the computing device of the presenter.

Referring to at step the attendee s are connected to the presentation. At step the presenter and attendee s are provided with options from the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. Again these options may include enabling the remote monitoring and or reporting tool with reporting options as discussed above. During or prior to this processing the remote monitoring and or reporting tool may also request further information from the participants including for example user ID and passcode.

Depending on the selected option which varies depending on the selections by the attendee s the presentation material can be presented at step . If the presenter is using a service provider the service provider will provide the monitoring at optional step . The presentation can then be displayed to the attendees at step with the selected reporting and or monitoring options. The attendees can select the option via a keyboard mouse or other interactive response. Alternatively if the remote monitoring and or reporting tool is built directly into the collaboration tool or the presenter s computing device the presentation can be displayed directly to the attendees at step with the selected reporting and or monitoring options thereby bypassing the service provider.

With the one or more options selected to be enabled at step the remote monitoring and or reporting tool is enabled. If the presenter selected the reporting on off option at step the command will be enabled e.g. by either a service provider or directly from the collaboration tool at step . At step the presentation can be displayed to the attendees. The presentation will include an on off command allowing any of the attendees or presenter to enable or disable the reporting option.

At step the remote monitoring and or reporting tool will begin monitoring for active windows displayed on the computing devices of the attendees. At step the remote monitoring and or reporting tool will report the activity for each attendee that opted for the reporting option. Depending on the embodiment the reporting may be performed by the service provider or generated directly from the remote monitoring and or reporting tool.

At step the presenter will receive the report and at step the presenter will determine an appropriate action to take. This may include for example terminating the presentation requesting the appropriate attendees to display the presentation materials as the active window amongst other possibilities.

In attendees computing devices comp comp comp an opt in out option may appear in order for the attendees to enable disable the remote monitoring and or reporting tool. In the example of the attendee comp either disengaged the tool or is using a window that is not associated with the presentation as shown by the reporting screen RS .

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

