---

title: Visual feedback during remote collaboration
abstract: Visual feedback is provided to a local user of a remote collaboration system. While an image is being captured, it is recognized that content is being shared on a screen. A composite image is generated which includes a form of the image being captured and the shared content. The composite image is caused to be displayed on a remote screen. A variably semi-transparent image of at least a portion of the composite image or the image is generated and is rendered on a portion of the screen such that the variably semi-transparent image is overlaid on any of the shared content or another composite image displayed on the screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09190021&OS=09190021&RS=09190021
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09190021
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120424
---
Remote collaboration or telepresence systems allow users who are in different locations to see and talk to one another creating the illusion that the participants are in the same room. These systems include technology for the reception and transmission of audio video signals so that the remotely located participants are able to communicate in real time or without noticeable delay. Some systems also include on screen drawing capabilities and content sharing capabilities. The visual aspect of telepresence systems enhances remote communications by allowing the users to perceive one another as well as any shared content.

The present disclosure relates generally to visual feedback during remote collaboration. Examples of the method computer readable medium and system disclosed herein are used to provide visual feedback to a local user of a remote collaboration system. The system disclosed herein includes a screen through which or in front of which images are captured and on which other images and content may be shared. The system disclosed herein includes an image processing system which is capable of providing visual feedback to the local user. The visual feedback is provided in the form of a variably semi transparent image that is overlaid on the shared content and or images being displayed on the user s local screen. The variably semi transparent image indicates to the local user how his her image including any shared content appears to the remote user. As such the variably semi transparent image may be an indication to the local user that the shared content is occluding his her image.

It is to be understood that the examples of the image processing system disclosed herein may be utilized with any hardware and programming combination. The hardware includes at least a computing system operatively connected to a display system. Examples of suitable display systems include electronic visual display based systems projection based displays etc. Screens of electronic visual display based systems or projection based displays may be non see through screens where an imaging device is positioned within the screen or around the screen to capture images in front of the screen. Screens of other projection based displays may be see through screens where an imaging device is positioned behind the screen to capture images in front of the screen. illustrates an example of a remote collaboration system including a projector based display with a see through screen and illustrates an example of a local system of a remote collaboration system including an electronic visual display with a non see through screen.

Referring now to an example of a remote collaboration system is depicted. In this description user A is considered to be a local user and user B is considered to be a remote user. With this in mind the remote collaboration system includes a local screen which in this example is a see through screen a local imaging device a local projector a remote screen a remote imaging device and a remote projector . While the components and are referred to as local components it is to be understood that these components may be considered remote components when the system is described from the view point of user B. In these instances user B and his her system components e.g. and would be considered to be local components and user A and his her system components e.g. would be considered to be remote components.

The see through screens shown in this example allow an imaging device e.g. to be positioned behind the screen which enables local user s to look at the remote user s image that is displayed on the screen while also looking into the imaging device . Each of the see through screens may be any display screen that is capable of having images and content displayed thereon and having images captured therethrough. The local and remote see through screens may be based upon half silvered mirrors variations of the half silvered mirror e.g. including a polarizing film sandwiched between the screen and the half mirror switchable liquid crystal diffusers holographic projection screens that diffuse light from pre specified angles and otherwise allow light to pass through or screens using weave fabrics. In an example screens that diffuse light from pre specified angles may be coupled with various techniques e.g. temporal multiplexing or wavelength multiplexing to separate light from projected images and content from light captured through the screen by the imaging device . Temporal multiplexing involves alternating projecting images and content with capturing images. Wavelength multiplexing involves using different non overlapping sets of wavelengths for projection and capture. As such if the projector or outputs light in spectral range s that do not overlap the spectral range s observable by the respective imaging device or the respective imaging device or will not sense the backscattered light emitted from the projector or . In this example interference filters may be arranged to further reduce backscatter.

In the example shown in the imaging devices are placed behind the respective see through screens in order to capture images through the respective see through screen . It is to be understood that the imaging devices do not capture the content that may be shared on the screen . An example of a suitable imaging device includes a camera that is capable of taking video images i.e. a series of sequential video frames that capture motion at any desired frame rate and or is capable of taking still images.

As noted above the example shown in is a projection based system. The projectors are also placed behind the respective see through screens in order to project images and or content thereon. The position of the projectors will depend at least in part on the type of see through screen that is utilized.

A compositing engine is included in the system . The compositing engine may be any combination of hardware and programming that is capable of creating a composite image using images taken by the imaging device or and content that is shared on the screen or . In the example shown in the composite engine receives an image taken by the imaging device . As depicted the image is of user A and any background surrounding him her that is within the imaging device s field of view. In this example the composite engine then mirrors the image. The mirrored image is shown at reference numeral . The composite engine also recognizes that content is being displayed on the screen and receives or retrieves such content from the memory that stores the content . The compositing engine then composites the mirrored image and the content to generate the composite image .

In the examples disclosed herein the content may be any media including for example documents digital photographs slides spreadsheets etc. The content may be retrieved from any memory that is capable of storing the content and that can be accessed by a computing device that is operatively connected to the screen or that is in operative connection with the projector . The computing device will be discussed further in reference to . In order to retrieve and display content the user A may utilize an input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen etc. which are not shown operatively connected to the computing device to request that the content be shared.

The composite image is sent from the compositing engine to the projector through a link . The link may be one or more of cable wireless fiber optic or remote connections via a telecommunication link an infrared link a radio frequency link or any other connectors or systems that provide electronic communication. Link may include at least in part an intranet the Internet or a combination of both. The link may also include intermediate proxies routers switches load balancers and the like. The projector displays the received composite image on the remote see through screen .

While not shown in it is to be understood that composite images may also be generated from images taken by imaging device and content that is shared on the see through screen . These composite images would be transmitted to see through screen in the reverse path of that shown in . For example the image of user B and the surrounding background would be mirrored and transmitted to be displayed with any shared content on screen .

In the example shown in the shared content is blocking at least part of user A in the composite image . As depicted in user B cannot see all of user A on the screen because of the positioning of the shared content . When user A is sharing content in this manner he she may not be aware that the shared content is blocking his her image. A visual feedback engine shown at reference numeral in is included as part of the system in order to provide visual feedback to any local user so that he she is made aware when the content he she is sharing is occluding any object within the composite image .

Referring now to another example of a portion of a remote collaboration system is depicted. In this description the local user A and his local system are shown. The local system includes a laptop computer or another computing device such as a desktop computer which includes a non see through screen and the imaging device built into the laptop computer .

The non see through screen may be any display screen that is capable of having images and content displayed thereon but that an imaging device cannot see through. Examples of the non see through screen include liquid crystal displays light emitting diode displays organic light emitting diode displays etc.

In the example shown in the imaging device is part of the laptop computer and is positioned over the screen in order to capture images in front of the screen . It is to be understood that the imaging device does not capture the content that may be shared on the screen . The examples provided above for imaging devices and may also be used for the imaging device . In this example the imaging device may otherwise be a webcam that is operatively connected to the laptop computer and positioned to capture images in front of the screen or in another area.

The system shown in includes another example of the compositing engine . The compositing engine may be any combination of hardware and programming that is capable of creating a composite image using images taken by the imaging device and content that is shared on the screen . As shown in the composite engine receives an image taken by the imaging device . The composite engine recognizes that content is being displayed on the screen and receives or retrieves such content from the memory that stores the content . The image which in this example is not mirrored is composited with any content that is shared on the screen to generate the composite image .

In the example shown in the shared content is blocking at least part of user A in the composite image . In this example the user of the remote system will not be able to see all of user A on the screen of the remote system because of the positioning of the shared content . When user A is sharing content in this manner he she may not be aware that the shared content is blocking his her image. The visual feedback engine shown at reference numeral in is included as part of the system in order to provide visual feedback to any local user so that he she is made aware when the content he she is sharing is occluding any object within the composite image .

Referring now to the remote collaboration systems and include one or more image processing engines including the previously described compositing engine or and the previously mentioned visual feedback engine . The visual feedback engine may be any combination of hardware and programming that is capable of recognizing that the shared content is occluding an object e.g. user A in the composite image or generating a variably semi transparent image of at least a portion of the image or the composite image or and rendering the variably semi transparent image on a portion of the screen . This provides the user A with a visual representation of what is shown to user B.

The visual feedback engine may include programming for visual object recognition or object detection that enables the engine to recognize that the shared content is occluding an object. In some instances the programming can identify the object.

Examples of the variably semi transparent image are shown in which will be discussed in more detail below. The semi transparent image may be based on the entire composite image or or on a portion of the image or on the entire image . In an example the visual feedback engine creates the variably semi transparent image using alpha compositing to combine the composite image or i.e. the mirrored or original version of image of user A composited with user A s shared content or all or a portion of the image with the background of the screen or to create the appearance of partial or full transparency. In an example the variably semi transparent image is a partially transparent or a fully transparent rendition of the composite image or that is overlaid on the image s and or content being displayed on the screen e.g. a composite image of user B . In another example the variably semi transparent image is a partially transparent or a fully transparent rendition of any portion of the image that is being occluded by the content and this portion of the image is overlaid on the content being displayed on the screen . In these examples the image s and or content being displayed on the screen is are still visible to the local user e.g. user A .

As an example the variably semi transparent image may appear in the foreground while the image s and or content being displayed on the screen appears in the background. This may be accomplished using an over compositing operator. As other examples the compositing operator selected to generate the variably semi transparent image may be in held out by atop or xor or the reverse of any of the operators mentioned herein. If an alpha channel which stores an alpha or transparency value for each pixel of an image is used alpha compositing may involve normal non premultiplied alpha blending or premultiplied alpha blending.

The visual feedback engine may dynamically i.e. in real time and automatically alter the transparency of the variably semi transparent image . The level of transparency may be varied based upon whether or not an object is being occluded by the shared content in the composite image or . Additionally the level of transparency may be varied based upon what the object is. As an example when the visual feedback engine detects that the object being occluded is a plant or a chair in the composite image or the level of transparency may be raised to render the variably semi transparent image less opaque. This type of variably semi transparent image may provide visual feedback to the local user without rising to the level of an indication that the user is occluding himself or herself. As another example when the visual feedback engine detects that the object being occluded is one or more persons in the composite image or the visual feedback engine may reduce the level of transparency of the variably semi transparent image . In effect this reduction in transparency will increase the opacity of the variably semi transparent image so that the variably semi transparent image acts as a flash or warning to the local user e.g. user A in this example that he she is occluded himself herself in the view that the remote user e.g. user B is seeing.

The transparency level may also be altered to be higher or lower depending upon how much of the object is being occluded. For example if the shared content is occluding the user s face arm s or entire body the level of transparency may be lowered but if the shared content is occluding the user s leg s alone the level of transparency may be raised. The visual feedback engine may also be configured to decrease the level of transparency whenever any part of a local user is being occluded in the composite image or .

The visual feedback engine may also be capable of receiving or retrieving e.g. from a memory that the engine has access to a user selected setting that indicates a desired transparency level. The local user e.g. user A may wish to have the variably semi transparent image at the lowest possible transparency level regardless of whether an object is being occluded or not. A user may preselect this setting using a computing device in operative connection with the image processing engine . The computing device will be discussed further in reference to . In order to set a transparency level setting the user may utilize an input device e.g. keyboard mouse etc. which are not shown operatively connected to the computing device.

Since the visual feedback engine is capable of dynamically altering the transparency level of the variably semi transparent image the visual feedback engine is capable of raising or lowering the level as remote collaboration is taking place. The visual feedback engine is thus capable of being responsive to changes that are made to the composite images or that are generated and transmitted. For example if at the outset of a remote collaboration meeting user A is occluding himself with shared content the visual feedback engine may render on user A s screen the variably semi transparent image with a relatively low level of transparency. However if user A moves the shared content in response to seeing the variably semi transparent image the visual feedback engine may render an updated variably semi transparent image based upon an updated composite image or or an update image of user A with a higher level of transparency than when the content was occluded user A.

Referring now specifically to a front view of the screen is depicted when a composite image and content shared by user A from are displayed thereon. This composite image is generated using an image e.g. of user B and the background surrounding her within the field of view of the imaging device from imaging device which is mirrored and composited with any content shared by user B which in this example is nothing . In this example the variably semi transparent image is based upon the portion of the image of user A that is being occluded by the content . The variably semi transparent image is overlaid on the content that user A is sharing. Overlaying the variably semi transparent image on the content gives the content a reflective appearance at least in part because the user s own image is displayed back at him her. In other words the shared content is used like a mirror that reflects a semi transparent variation of the portion of the image that is being occluded so that the local user can see himself or herself and see whether he she is being occluded by the content that he she is sharing.

Referring now specifically to a front view of the screen is depicted when the composite image and content shared by user A from are displayed thereon. In this example the variably semi transparent image is based upon the composite image or . The variably semi transparent image is displayed in a window that is overlaid on a portion of the composite image . It is to be understood that the window and the variably semi transparent image therein may be overlaid on any portion of the composite image on the entire composite image and or on the shared content . When the variably semi transparent image is displayed in the window it is to be understood that altering the transparency of the variably semi transparent image will simultaneously alter the transparency of the window .

In the foregoing discussion various components have been described as combinations of hardware and programming. These components may be implemented in a variety of fashions. illustrates one example of the implementation of these components. In this example the remote collaboration system is labeled and includes sub system A generally labeled SSA and sub system B generally labeled SSB. The respective sub systems SSA and SSB each include the respective see through screen the respective imaging device the respective projector and a respective computing device to which the respective components or are operatively connected. The computing devices are connected via a link similar to the link previously described in reference to . While the system shown in includes projector based displays and see through screens it is to be understood that any other type of hardware components may be used e.g. non projector based displays and non see through screens .

The computing devices may be any personal computer portable computer e.g. laptop content server a network PC a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone or any other computing device that is capable of performing the functions for receiving input from and or providing control or driving output to the various devices e.g. etc. associated with the respective sub systems SSA SSB of the remote collaboration system s e.g. disclosed herein.

In the example shown in the programming may be processor executable instructions stored on non transitory tangible memory media and the hardware may include a processor for executing those instructions. In an example the memory of the respective sub systems SSA SSB store program instructions that when executed by respective processors implement image processing engine of using images and shared content from the appropriate sub systems SSA or SSB . The memory may be integrated in the same device as the respective processors or they may be separate from but accessible to the respective computing device and processor .

In an example the program instructions may be part of an installation package that can be executed by the respective processors to implement the image processing engine of . In these instances the memory may be a portable medium such as a compact disc CD a digital video disc DVD or a flash drive or the memory may be a memory maintained by a server from which the installation package can be downloaded and installed on the respective computing systems . In another example the program instructions may be part of an application or applications already installed on the respective computing systems . In this other example the memory may include integrated memory such as a hard drive.

Referring now to another example of the remote collaboration system is depicted. In this example the remote collaboration system includes sub system A SSA and sub system B SSB. The respective sub systems SSA and SSB each include the respective see through screen the respective imaging device the respective projector and a respective computing device to which the respective components or are operatively connected. In this example however the computing devices are operatively connected to each other and to a cloud computing system via the link . While the system shown in includes projector based displays and see through screens it is to be understood that any other type of hardware components may be used e.g. non projector based displays and non see through screens .

As used herein the cloud computing system refers to a computing system including multiple pieces of hardware operatively coupled over a network so that they can perform a specific computing task. The cloud includes a combination of physical hardware software and virtual hardware . The cloud computing system is configured to i receive requests from the computing devices or from users A and or B using computing devices and ii return request responses. As examples the cloud computing system may be a private cloud a public cloud or a hybrid cloud. Further the cloud may be a combination cloud computing system including a private cloud or multiple private clouds and a public cloud or multiple public clouds .

The physical hardware may include among others processors memory devices and networking equipment. The virtual hardware is a type of software that is processed by the physical hardware and designed to emulate specific hardware. As an example virtual hardware may include a virtual machine VM i.e. a software implementation of a computer that supports execution of an application like a physical machine. An application as used herein refers to a set of specific instructions executable by a computing system for facilitating carrying out a specific task. For example an application may take the form of a web based tool providing users A B with a specific functionality e.g. running a remote collaboration meeting. It will be understood that an application as used herein is not limited to a remote collaboration application but refers to an application supporting performing a specific task using computing resources such as among others enterprise applications accounting applications multimedia related applications or data storage applications. Software is a set of instructions and data configured to cause virtual hardware to execute an application. As such the cloud computing system can render a particular application available to users A and B.

Executing an application in the cloud may involve receiving a number of requests e.g. request to generate a variably semi transparent image processing the requests according to the particular functionality implemented by the application e.g. generating the variably semi transparent image and returning request responses e.g. transmitting the variably semi transparent image to the requesting computing system or . For executing the application the resources e.g. physical hardware virtual hardware and software of the cloud computing system may be scaled depending on the demands posed on the application. For example cloud may vary the size of the resources allocated to the application depending on the number of requests the number of users or sub systems SSA SSB interacting with the application or requirement on the performance of the application e.g. a maximum response time . While not shown it is to be understood that the cloud may also include an interface that allows the computing devices to communicate with the components of the cloud .

In the example of the hardware of the cloud computing system may include a processor and a memory . The processor may be any processor that is capable of executing program instructions stored in the memory to perform for example image compositing and visual feedback. The memory may include an operating system and applications such as a compositing application and a visual feedback application. The operating system may be a collection of programs that when executed by the processor serve as a platform on which the compositing application and the visual feedback application can run. Examples of operating systems include for example various versions of Linux and Microsoft s Windows .

The compositing application represents program instructions that when executed by the processor function as a service that causes i recognition of content being projected while an image is being captured via the requesting sub systems SSA SSB ii generation of the composite image for the requesting sub system SSA SSB and iii transmission of the composite image to the other of the sub systems SSB SSA for display. The compositing application represents program instructions that when executed by the processor function as a service that causes i generation of the variably semi transparent image of at least a portion of the composite image for the requesting sub system SSA SSB and ii transmission of the variably semi transparent image to the requesting sub system SSA SSB for display.

In the cloud computing system of the image processing system of may have the hardware portions implemented as the processor and may have the programming portions implemented as the operating system and applications. In this example then each of the computing devices may utilize the services of the cloud to achieve remote collaboration and in particular to provide visual feedback to the respective local users.

The figures set forth herein aid in depicting various architectures functionalities and operations of the examples disclosed herein. Throughout the description many of the components are defined at least in part as programs programming or program instructions. Each of these components portions thereof or various combinations thereof may represent in whole or in part a module segment or portion of code that includes one or more executable instructions to implement any specified logical function s . Each component or various combinations thereof may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

The examples disclosed herein may be realized in any non transitory tangible computer readable media for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system e.g. computing systems such as a computer processor based system or an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or another system that can fetch or obtain the logic from computer readable media and execute the instructions contained therein. Non transitory tangible computer readable media may be any media that is capable of containing storing or maintaining programs and data for use by or in connection with the computing systems . Computer readable media may include any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include a portable magnetic computer diskette such as floppy diskettes or hard drives a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory or a portable CD DVD or flash drive.

While several examples have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed examples may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered non limiting.

