---

title: Monitor for pressurized canisters
abstract: A sensor system is provided for pressure vessels. In one embodiment, a compressor directs compressed air into a purification chamber for removing carbon monoxide from the air. A sensor system housing is fastened to an opening on the purification chamber. The sensor housing provides an electrochemical sensor driven by an independent power supply and an electronic processor for receiving a signal from the electrochemical sensor. If the carbon monoxide in the purification chamber reaches a predetermined level, the electronic processor is programmed to initiate a shutdown of the compressor utilizing a relay cable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08857463&OS=08857463&RS=08857463
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08857463
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120405
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to monitoring pressurized containers and in one possible embodiment relates to a threadably connected real time carbon monoxide monitor that can be utilized to monitor a pressurized purification chamber which requires maintaining a relatively high minimum pressure even when a compressor is turned off.

Presently carbon monoxide monitoring of compressed air systems may utilize carbon monoxide test strips which may be placed inside a housing and exposed to compressed air. The test strips begin as a tan color and will change to black if carbon monoxide is present in undesired concentrations.

Draeger tubes provide another testing mechanism which may be utilized in addition to other testing at regular intervals to independently gauge the quality of the compressed air for use in compressed air tanks.

The following U.S. Patents describe various prior art systems that may be related to the above and or other carbon monoxide monitoring systems 

U.S. Pat. No. 6 433 696 to Dieterman et al. issued Aug. 13 2002 discloses a system for monitoring carbon monoxide in an environment which includes an apparatus emitting carbon monoxide such as an internal combustion engine. A carbon monoxide sensor measures a concentration of carbon monoxide in the environment and provides an electrical signal to a processor that is representative of the measured concentration of carbon monoxide. The processor determines the concentration of carbon monoxide corresponding to the electrical signal provides an output signal at or above predetermined carbon monoxide concentration thresholds calculates an estimated carboxyhemoglobin level for the operator corresponding to the carbon monoxide concentrations calculated over time and provides an output signal at or above predetermined carboxyhemoglobin thresholds. The signals are then received by one or more devices which provide textual visual and or audible warnings indicating that environmental concentrations of carbon monoxide have caused a predetermined warning threshold to be met or exceeded. The signals may also be received by a device which shuts down the carbon monoxide generating apparatus.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 970 431 to Wise issued Jul. 20 1976 discloses an indicator of the presence and changes in the carbon monoxide content of the air. It operates by measuring the change in resistance of a silver oxide detector when exposed to carbon monoxide.

The prior art does not show the features of the present invention which in one embodiment comprises a readily connectable sensor housing for pressure vessels and or compressor systems including a substantially continuous real time measurement of carbon monoxide levels. The sensor housing may be used with breathing air compressor systems that contain scrubbing units of a type that are preferably kept at relatively high minimum pressures. Accordingly those of skill in the art will appreciate the present invention which addresses the above discussed and other problems.

It is one possible object of the present invention to provide an improved carbon monoxide monitor for a breathing air compressor system.

Another possible object of the present invention is to provide a self contained sensor system with processing capability and battery pack within an easily replaceable threaded cap.

Another possible object of the invention is to provide a real time monitoring system that can detect contaminants in stored compressed gas whether the system is operating or in standby mode.

Another possible object of the invention is to provide a carbon monoxide monitor which negates the need for periodic tests of breathing air using Draeger Tubes.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following descriptions taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein by way of illustration and example an embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. However it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the above and or other objects of the invention.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a mechanism is provided for monitoring the carbon monoxide levels of air in a breathing air compressor system and for automatically shutting down the system if carbon monoxide levels reach a predetermined threshold. In one embodiment the present invention may comprise elements such as but not restricted to a sensor housing comprising an electrochemical sensor an electronic processor a power supply and or battery an automated shutoff mechanism and a back pressure regulator.

In one possible embodiment a motor powers a breathing air compressor. A purification chamber is operably connected to the compressor for receiving a volume of high pressure breathing air to be scrubbed of carbon monoxide. A typical maximum pressure may be in the range of about 5000 psi. However the purification chamber may also require a minimum pressure which may be in the range of about 3000 psi.

In one possible embodiment a carbon monoxide monitor cap is threadably mounted to an opening or connection on the purification chamber. The cap may be cylindrical in shape and comprise threads which mate with threads on the inside of the purification chamber opening. In another embodiment at least one seal is used around the threads for a tight seal with the purification chamber. However other shapes and fastening means can be utilized. The carbon monoxide monitor cap is portable and readily replaceable. It may be battery powered.

The carbon monoxide monitor cap may comprise an electrochemical sensor which is operably connected to an electronic processor. Both the sensor and the processor are powered by an independent power supply located in the cap.

In one embodiment a sample of air is introduced through a metered orifice in the sensor cap. The airflow may be substantially continuous and is directed to the sensor. The processor can be programmed to utilize the sensor signal to detect undesired levels of carbon monoxide or other contaminants. In one possible embodiment the air flow is approximately 1 1.5 liters of air per minute to provide adequate exposure to the electrochemical sensor.

In another embodiment the carbon monoxide monitor cap also comprises a back pressure regulator. The regulator maintains a desired minimum pressure in the breathing air compressor system which in certain embodiments may be 3000 psi.

In one embodiment once the electrochemical sensor detects a predetermined level of carbon monoxide as determined by the processor the processor produces an output to shut off a fuel solenoid which disables the air compressor. In another embodiment the processor may shut off a switch or relay regulating electricity to the compressor.

The present invention provides amongst other things an improvement in the real time monitoring of carbon monoxide in a breathing air compressor system. While a particular embodiment involves monitoring carbon monoxide the present invention is not limited to this embodiment. For example one possible embodiment of the present invention provides an easily replaceable self contained sensor system and processor which may be utilized for monitoring various aspects of a pressurized system and or a pressurized canister.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown one possible embodiment of air compressor system . System may comprise a motor such as diesel motor which is utilized to drive air compressor using some mechanical means such as pulleys cranks or in this embodiment rotating shaft . However motor may comprise an electric motor or any other suitable type of motor and any suitable means may be provided to drive compressor . Motor and compressor may be integrated into a single unit. Accordingly compressor may be of various types and may be used to compress air for storage within one or more air chambers such as purification chamber or compressed air chamber as discussed hereinafter. However compressor may be utilized to compress other types of gases or combinations of gases as desired. Compressor system may be provided as a package may be transportable and or may be configured in many different ways. In one embodiment compressor system is utilized to compress air for breathing purposes which may involve underwater use firefighter use medical use and or other uses.

Shutoff may be utilized to shut down motor when the desired gas pressure is reached and or if an undesirable level of carbon monoxide is detected as discussed hereinafter. Shutoff may comprise warning lights electronic communication connections and the like which indicate problems with carbon monoxide levels. Shutoff may also comprise a valve or the like to redirect the gas entering or leaving compressor .

In one embodiment compressed air output line may be utilized to connect with and or charge other compressed air bottles as desired and or for additional scrubbing.

Referring now to there is shown one possible embodiment of a self contained carbon monoxide sensor and processor for monitoring a breathing air compressor system. Sensor cap is preferably portable self contained and easily connected or removed from a high pressure cylinder such as pressure vessel when needed. In one possible embodiment sensor cap may be utilized in an air compressor system such as air compressor system to detect undesirably high carbon monoxide levels.

In one possible embodiment sensor cap is designed to fit into opening See which is provided or formed on pressure vessel . However adaptors valves and the like may also be utilized for connecting sensor cap to pressure vessel .

Pressure vessel may be referred to herein as purification chamber scrubber air tank or the like. In one embodiment pressure vessel may comprise a carbon monoxide scrubber filters catalysts or the like which may preferably be maintained or may be required to be maintained at a minimum pressure. The minimum pressure may be relatively high e.g. in the range of 3000 psi or the like. As used herein the terms purification chamber scrubber and the like for removing carbon monoxide are substantially interchangeable. However pressure vessel or chamber may also comprise a standard compressed air cylinder.

In one possible embodiment sensor cap is cylindrically shaped and comprises threads for connection to pressure chamber . However other types of fittings adaptors seals and connections could be utilized for sensor cap . Seals such as seal may comprise O rings or other types of seals. Seals may be provided on both sides or one side of threads as desired. In one embodiment seal may engage walls of corresponding socket within pressure chamber which provides a tight seal when sensor cap is engaged with purification chamber .

Air flow into sensor cap as indicated by arrow enters through one or more orifices such as metered input orifice located on a lower end of cap which is in communication with pressurized air in pressure chamber . Orifice may be sized or metered to divert between 1 1.5 liters of air per minute or other amount as desired when connected to pressure chamber which may have a maximum pressure in the range of about 5000 psi and in one possible embodiment a required minimum pressure in the range of about 3000 psi. The air that flows through metered input orifice may then be directed through a flow path defined within sensor cap and subsequently flow out of sensor cap at output orifice as indicated by arrow . The flow path within sensor and one or more outputs such as output orifice may be sized considerably larger than input orifice if desired. Output orifice may be positioned as desired in sensor cap .

Referring to the details of in one possible embodiment sensor cap forms internal housing therein for various types of electrical and mechanical structures including metered input orifice and output orifice discussed hereinbefore. In one embodiment the flow path within cap is directed to flow through or past carbon monoxide electronic sensor which is mounted within the housing formed within cap . While various types of carbon monoxide sensors or other sensors may be utilized in one possible embodiment off the shelf electronic sensors may be utilized such as an EcoSure Transducer which requires no calibration and has a two year life.

Carbon monoxide sensor is electronically connected to electronic processor which may also be mounted within the interior of cap . In one possible embodiment both sensor and processor are powered by a battery that forms power supply which can also be contained within housing . In one embodiment a battery can be replaced or inserted into housing via a port in the side of housing such as port which may or may not be sealingly plugged. However in other embodiments the top of cap could be sealed and or threadably removable or other access means may be provided to access internal housing . Power may also be provided externally if desired. One or more LEDs buttons or the like may be utilized for checking operation and or to provide status indications if desired.

Sensor cap may in one embodiment be connected to sample air in a portion of purification chamber that has already been filtered scrubbed exposed to catalyst of filter materials or otherwise purified of carbon monoxide. As air is directed through sensor cap carbon monoxide sensor effectively samples and detects the amount of carbon monoxide present in the purification chamber. If the level of carbon monoxide becomes higher than a pre set level as determined by a signal from sensor and or as calculated by processor then electronic processor may be programmed to or otherwise constructed to utilize wire to activate shutoff which may comprise a relay fuel solenoid or the like. As noted above shutoff may include warning lights LEDs or the like which indicate the nature of the problem.

Sensor cap may also include indicators such as a green LED for normal operation and or a red LED for undesirable levels of carbon monoxide which are controlled by processor .

Wire may extend from an opening in sensor cap which may be sealed by packing material sealing material or the like so as to provide that housing remains pressurized if desired. However housing may or may not be pressurized as desired as discussed hereinafter.

In one possible embodiment with a diesel engine processor will transmit a shutoff signal to shutoff which may comprise a fuel solenoid via cable preventing motor from powering air compressor . In another embodiment utilizing an electric compressor electronic processor transmits a signal via cable which connects to shutoff which may comprise a mechanical relay or power transistor configuration that shuts off electric power for running air compressor .

As discussed above air flow through internal housing exits carbon monoxide monitor cap through one or more openings such as opening which may be provided in the top of sensor housing or at the sides or elsewhere as desired.

In one possible embodiment back pressure regulator and or back pressure regulator may be utilized in conjunction with opening or opening to maintain a minimum pressure of 3000 psi in breathing air compressor system although the minimum pressure could vary in other embodiments. For example back pressure regulator and or may comprise a check valve or the like which opens whenever the pressure goes above a minimum pressure which may be in the range of about 3000 pounds. In one embodiment the minimum pressure may be in the range of 3000 psi plus or minus 500 psi.

Housing may or may not be pressurized. If back pressure regulator operates in conjunction with input orifice then housing need not be pressurized. However if it is desired that housing be pressurized then back pressure regulator may be utilized in conjunction with outlet . If it is desired that housing is pressurized depending on the application type of gas and so forth then housing is appropriately sealed. Housing may be vented to the atmosphere but could also be vented to a lower pressure line or container.

In either case whether internal housing is pressurized or not sensor cap may also be utilized to maintain a minimum system pressure within canister if desired. In some cases a minimum pressure may be desirable for proper maintenance or operation of purification or scrubbing chamber . With use of back pressure regulator or when gas pressure within purifier container is above a minimum level then gas will flow through housing to contact sensor at the predetermined flow due to metered orifice . However in this embodiment when pressure within gas canister drops below the predetermined minimum then flow through sensor cap no longer occurs. This is because if the pressure in pressurized chamber drops below a minimum pressure then back pressure regulator will close and stop the flow to maintain the pressure in pressure chamber at the minimum pressure e.g. 3000 psi.

In summary of one possible embodiment of operation compressor system provides portable breathing air to be stored in canisters. In other embodiments breathing air compressor system could be used to directly deliver air to a breathing apparatus.

Motor powers air compressor to create a volume of pressurized air which may increase in pressure up to about 5000 psi depending on the application. The compressed air fills pressurized purification chamber where carbon monoxide is scrubbed from the compressed air. In this embodiment pressurized purification chamber may be sealed off by sensor cap . If the carbon monoxide level of the compressed air is above a desired threshold cable sends a signal to shutoff in the form of a fuel solenoid preventing the delivery of fuel to diesel motor . In another embodiment cable carries a signal to shut off electrical power to electric air compressor . Purification chamber also has one or more outlet ports from which the breathing air reaches its ultimate destination such as a scuba tank compartment medical oxygen tank or other breathing apparatus.

In one embodiment sensor cap continuously checks air in pressurized purification vessel so long as the system pressure is above a minimum pressure and reduces the need to recalibrate carbon monoxide sensors or monitors. The carbon monoxide monitor also provides an automated shutoff mechanism based on a real time carbon monoxide reading and or provides warning LED signal or the like.

In yet another embodiment sensor cap may not utilize wire and might instead utilize LED indicators. Sensor cap could then be connected to each air cylinder to be tested. The air in the tank could be sampled for a few minutes whereby the LED indicators would indicate whether unacceptable levels of carbon monoxide or other contaminants were present. Therefore already filled bottles of gas may be tested for the presence of carbon monoxide and or other elements. If a mixture of gases or ratio of gases were desired then sensor cap may comprise multiple sensors to test and measure the mixture whereby processor may produce an output from wire and or with a green LED.

While the present invention is discussed above for one embodiment which utilizes a carbon monoxide sensor other types of sensors may be utilized in addition or instead of the carbon monoxide sensor. Thus sensor cap of the present invention may be utilized for monitoring elements of different types in different types of gases and the signal output line may be utilized to connect to a shutoff but may also be utilized for other purposes such as signaling or monitoring purposes. Thus sensor cap may be used for other types of pressurized systems than compressed air systems and in some embodiments may not be utilized with air compressor systems but instead is used with testing gas in pressurized containers.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

