---

title: Delaying delivery of teleconference access information
abstract: A system and method for delaying delivery of teleconference access information includes at least one processor, at least one computer readable medium in communication with the processor, and at least one program module stored on the medium. The module is operative to create a teleconference notification in response to a request from a requestor device. The module can also assign a date, time, and access information for the teleconference, receive an input from the requestor device to delay delivery of the access information, and deliver the teleconference notification to at least one participant device. The teleconference notification has at least the date and time of the teleconference but not the access information. The module delays delivery of the access information to the at least one participant. For example, delivery of the access information is delayed until a predetermined time period from the assigned date and time of the teleconference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049591&OS=09049591&RS=09049591
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09049591
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121219
---
This is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 855 874 filed Aug. 13 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to methods of transmitting teleconference access information to teleconference participants. More specifically the present disclosure relates to a system and method for delaying delivery of teleconference access information for security.

Presently teleconference calls are organized using a meeting request sent via electronic mail email . For example when a teleconference call is scheduled all meeting participants receive a notification such as an email or an appointment for an electronic calendar that includes the date and time of the teleconference as well as a call in phone number and the password or passcode. Automatic reminders are typically sent to meeting participants reminding the participants of the upcoming date and time of the teleconference. The automatic reminders can be sent as an email an electronic calendar notification an electronic task notification a short message string SMS text message or a pop up window that is displayed on the participant s computing device display screen mobile phone display screen a portable electronic device display screen or any other display screen of an electronic device. When the teleconference reminders are sent to participants they can be default selected user defined or pre programmed by a computing device. For example the meeting reminders can be sent weeks days hours or minutes before the teleconference.

For simplicity and clarity of illustration where appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the different figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the implementations described herein. However those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the implementations described herein can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the related relevant feature being described. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the implementations described herein.

Typically when a meeting request is created and sent the call in phone number and the password are immediately sent along with the meeting request. The meeting request is sent well in advance of the date and time of the teleconference. Hence the call in phone number and the password may remain in the teleconference participants email inbox electronic calendar computer or mobile communication device days before the date and time of the teleconference. Thus other unauthorized individuals may have access to the authorized participant s call in phone number and password and may join the teleconference even though the unauthorized individual was not invited. For example the unauthorized individual may gain access to the authorized participant s calendar and obtain all meeting times call in numbers and passwords and then secretly join the teleconferences in silence and listen to secret and confidential information.

A system for delaying teleconference access information will be described with reference to . Several definitions that apply throughout this document will now be presented. The term teleconference refers to telephone conferences videoconferences videoteleconferences shared workspaces web meetings or any other meetings that require media and access information. The term teleconference notification refers to an email an electronic notification an appointment notification an electronic message or the like that can be delivered electronically to a recipient that includes information regarding the teleconference meeting. The term access information refers to phone numbers access codes passwords passcodes personal identification numbers PINs website hyperlinks sharedspace access website access and the like. The term attendees refers to the invitees participants guests and authorized individuals invited and requested to attend the teleconference. The term requestor refers to the organizer scheduler host planner or individual who schedules the teleconference. The term requestor device and participant device can include a handheld mobile communication device a handheld device a cellular phone a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook a personal digital assistant an electronic handheld calendar device or the like. A display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display a touch screen display or the like. The term assigns or assigning refers to assigning setting identifying selecting appointing or scheduling. For example assigning a date and a time for a teleconference meeting. The term pull down box refers to a pull down menu a drop down menu a pull down list a drop down list or any other similar list of user selectable options or choices that can be revealed when a user selects or clicks on the pull down box.

In one implementation of the present disclosure when a teleconference meeting is scheduled a teleconference notification is sent to the invited participants or attendees. The teleconference notification can be an email an appointment added to an electronic calendar of the participants or attendees an electronic meeting request or the like. When creating the teleconference notification the teleconference organizer assigns the time and date of the teleconference the location of the teleconference the invited participants the subject of the teleconference a date or time to send a reminder to the participants regarding the teleconference teleconference access information and other similar teleconference information. For example the teleconference access information can include the telephone number for participants to call on the date of the teleconference and a passcode to join the teleconference. When the teleconference organizer or requestor completes the teleconference information the teleconference notification can be electronically delivered to the teleconference participants. However the teleconference notification will include at least the date and the time for the teleconference but will not include the access information.

The access information is sent at a later time more proximate to the scheduled time of the teleconference meeting. For example the teleconference scheduling system can deliver the access information to the participants one minute before the scheduled teleconference meeting forty five seconds before five seconds before ten minutes thirty minutes before or any other time period before the scheduled conference that will ensure only authorized participants join the teleconference. The access information can be delivered to the participants in an email in a short message string SMS text message a pop up window displayed on the display screen of the participant device or as a reminder pop up in an electronic calendar software program.

When the access information is received by the teleconference participant the participant can access the teleconference using the telephone number or link and join the teleconference by entering the passcode. For example if the access information included a telephone number and a passcode or PIN number the participant would dial the telephone number and when prompted to enter the passcode or PIN number to join the teleconference. In another implementation if the access information included a website hypertext link and a password the participant would enter the website hypertext address or click on the hypertext link to access the teleconference and then type or enter the password to join the teleconference. By delaying the delivery of the access information the risk of other individuals obtaining the access to teleconferences is reduced. Additionally the requestor or organizer of the teleconference does not have to remember to send the teleconference details at the last moment before the teleconference meeting. The requestor or organizer sets or assigns the teleconference information details but the teleconference scheduling system sends the access information at a scheduled or predetermined time after the teleconference notification has been created and delivered to the participants.

With respect to the display illustrates a screen for creating a teleconference notification displayed on the display of a requestor device. In the illustrated example the requestor device is a handheld communication device . The screen is presented on the display upon receipt of a user input from the requestor indicating a request to create a teleconference notification. The screen allows the requestor to input teleconference information and teleconference details which can be sent to the invited participants of the teleconference. When creating the teleconference notification a template for the teleconference notification is presented and includes a Subject field for entering the subject of the teleconference or the topics to be discussed during the teleconference. The teleconference notification also includes a field for assigning the date and the time of the teleconference. In the specific implementation illustrated in the date and time for both the start time and end time of the teleconference meeting is shown however both the start time and end time need not be shown. In an alternative implementation the requestor can assign the date and the time for the start of the teleconference and can set the duration of the teleconference by selecting a duration from a pull down box. Such a duration can include thirty minutes one hour fifteen minutes or any other duration. In at least one implementation only pre defined time periods can be selected. In another implementation a user defined duration can be an option in the pull down box. In other implementations the duration can be an editable field allowing the user to define the duration.

In there is also a field for selecting the option of delaying delivery of access information. In the particular example illustrated in the selectable option is a drop down menu with the options of YES and NO. However in other implementations the selectable option can be a check box a radio button a toggle switch or any other selectable option that allows the requestor to choose whether or not access information is delivered to invited participants with the teleconference notification or is delivered at a later time. The teleconference notification can also include a Participants field for identifying the participants of the teleconference. Additionally there can be a field for setting a reminder to be electronically delivered to the invited participants identified in the Participants field . There can also be a field for marking the meeting request as private to notify the participants that only the invited participants are to join the teleconference. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the teleconference notification can include more or fewer fields and options than as shown in but will appreciate that the teleconference notification includes at least the date the time a selectable option to delay delivery of access information and a Participants field for identifying the participants of the teleconference.

The teleconference notification illustrated in also includes an option to specify the predetermined time period by which to delay delivery of the access information. For example the option to specify the predetermined time period can be a drop down menu as illustrated in that includes the options of delaying delivery of the access information by twenty minutes before the start date and time of the teleconference identified in fields and or any other predetermined time period from the start date and time of the teleconference thereby ensuring that only the authorized participants to the teleconference join the teleconference. Alternatively the predetermined time period can be default selected by the teleconference scheduling system. In other implementations the predetermined time period can be user defined by the requestor.

Additionally also illustrates a calendar option to add the teleconference meeting to the participants electronic calendars. Additionally illustrates a teleconference notification that includes a More Details option for entering additional details and options to the teleconference notification . For example the More Details option can include an option to send reminders to the invited participants regarding the teleconference a location field for assigning a location for the teleconference an option to attach documents images presentations and the like that will be discussed during the teleconference or any other details that might be needed for scheduling and organizing a teleconference.

Another difference between the teleconference notification illustrated in and the teleconference notification illustrated in is that the teleconference notification in includes a field for assigning the access information for the teleconference. In the illustrated example the access information includes a telephone number and a passcode. However as discussed above the access information can also be a website and a password. The access information is the information that will be delivered to the participants identified in the Participants field at the later time specified in the predetermined time period menu .

The illustrated teleconference notification in also includes a user selectable checkbox for sending a meeting reminder to the participants identified in the Participants field . In addition to the meeting reminder there can be a pull down menu for setting the time period when the meeting reminder will be sent. For example as illustrated the meeting reminder will be sent one day before the meeting however the meeting reminder can be sent one week before one hour before twelve hours before or any other time period before the time and date of the teleconference meeting.

Additionally the teleconference notification includes a Meeting Location field allowing the teleconference requestor to assign or identify the location of the teleconference. The teleconference notification can also include a Message text box allowing the teleconference requestor to include additional information or details regarding the teleconference. In the illustrated example in the Message text box allows the requestor to include text notifying the invited participants that the teleconference access information will be sent at a later time.

In the pop up window is presented to the participant as a pop up notification labeled Meeting Access Information. In the pop up window the access information includes the teleconference telephone number and the passcode to join the teleconference. As discussed above the access information can alternatively or additionally include a website hyperlink and a password to join the teleconference. Also as illustrated in the pop up window includes user selectable buttons for dialing the phone number to join the teleconference or to ignore the pop up window and not join the teleconference. Alternatively if the access information included a website hyperlink and a password the participant could select or click on the website hyperlink and enter or type in the password to join the teleconference.

While illustrates that the access information is sent to the participant in a pop up window the access information can alternatively be sent in a short message string SMS text message an email or in a meeting reminder pop up window. Regardless of the manner in which the access information is delivered the access information is delivered after the teleconference notification has delivered. More specifically the access information is delivered at a predetermined time period selected by the teleconference requestor or default selected by the teleconference scheduling system from the date and the time of the teleconference thereby ensuring that only the invited participants to the teleconference join the teleconference.

When inputting teleconference details and information for the teleconference notification the requestor device can receive an input from the requestor and send a signal to the teleconference scheduling system indicating a desire to delay delivery of access information. At block the teleconference scheduling system receives the input from the requestor device to delay delivery of the access information. At block after the requestor completes the details and information regarding the teleconference the teleconference scheduling system delivers the teleconference notification having at least the date and the time of the teleconference but not the access information to at least one participant identified by the requestor device during the creation of the teleconference notification. The access information is then delivered at a later time after the teleconference notification has been delivered. For example in block the teleconference scheduling system delivers the access information to at least one participant device at a predetermined time period from the date and the time that was assigned in the teleconference notification at block . As discussed in the illustrated implementations above the access information can be delivered to the at least one participant device in an email an SMS text message a pop up window a meeting notification or any other similar notification. As the access information is delivered at a predetermined time period such as a short time period from the date and time of the teleconference the risk that unauthorized participants can join the teleconference is reduced. Additionally the risk that unauthorized participants can silently join the teleconference and obtain secret or confidential information is reduced by the method of delaying delivery of teleconference access information as described herein.

In at least one alternative implementation the teleconference scheduling system can store the access information once the teleconference notification has been created. For example the teleconference scheduling system can store the access information on a server on the requestor device or on at least one of the participant devices. The teleconference scheduling system can store the access information until the predetermined time period from the date and the time assigned in the teleconference notification when the access information will be sent to the participant device s of the at least one participant of the teleconference. Hence the access information is held secure and the authorized participants to the teleconference will receive the access information at a time proximate to the assigned time of the teleconference to reduce the risk of unauthorized individuals joining the teleconference in silence and obtaining confidential and secret information. For example if the access information is stored on a requestor device the requestor device can be programmed to automatically deliver the access information to all or fewer than all participant devices at a predetermined time period from the date and time of the teleconference without further user intervention. Alternatively if the access information is stored on a server the server handles the access information and delivers the access information at a predetermined time period from the date and time of the teleconference. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other teleconference information and details other than the access information can be stored on the requestor device the participant device or a server and can be delivered at a predetermined time period from the date and time of the teleconference.

Even more it will be appreciated that in any implementation of the system and method of delaying delivery of teleconference access information if the date and the time of the teleconference is changed or modified after the teleconference has been delivered the date and time when the access information is to be delivered can be automatically adjusted so that the access information can still be delivered at the same predetermined time period from the start of teleconference. In other words the system can automatically update the date and time of delayed delivery of the access information by measuring the predetermined time period from the new or modified teleconference date and time . For example if a participant proposes a new date and time for the teleconference and the requestor accepts the proposed date and time the requestor can update the teleconference notification to deliver the new date and time of the teleconference but does not need to update the date and time of the delayed delivery of the access information . In at least one implementation the teleconference scheduling system can automatically adjust or update the date and time of the delayed delivery of the access information by applying the predetermined time period to the updated date and time of the teleconference.

The present disclosure can take the forms of hardware software or both hardware and software elements. In some implementations the technology is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. In particular for real time or near real time use an FPGA or ASIC implementation is desirable.

Furthermore the present disclosure can take the form of a computer program product comprising program modules accessible from computer usable or computer readable medium storing program code for use by or in connection with one or more computers processors or instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium though propagation mediums in and of themselves as signal carriers are not included in the definition of physical computer readable medium . Examples of a physical computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD. Both processors and program code for implementing each as an aspect of the technology can be centralized or distributed or a combination thereof as known to those skilled in the art.

A data processing system suitable for storing a computer program product of the present disclosure and for executing the program code of the computer program product will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters can also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters. Such systems can be centralized or distributed e.g. in peer to peer and client server configurations. In some implementations the data processing system is implemented using one or both of FPGAs and ASICs.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to messages or notifications in the description of example implementations below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to electronic messages or message based communications. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to voice mail communications or notifications in some implementations.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many implementations includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some implementations.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE . specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various implementations the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some implementations. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some implementations the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various implementations the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some implementations the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some implementations in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many implementations Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example implementations of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this implementation the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one implementation communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example implementation the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP . Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another implementation of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this implementation the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . The conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Exemplary implementations have been described hereinabove regarding a system and method for delaying teleconference access information for security. With the system and method for delaying teleconference access information the security of the teleconference is enhanced as only the invited attendees and authorized attendees will be able to join the teleconference. Additionally as the delay of delivering teleconference access information can be selected when the teleconference is arranged fewer steps are necessary to ensure that only authorized attendees receive the teleconference access information. Further delaying delivery of teleconference access information can be automatic thereby simplifying the teleconference setup process and ensuring that the teleconference is secure against unauthorized attendees listening in on or passively and secretly participating in the teleconference. Various modifications to and departures from the disclosed implementations will occur to those having skill in the art. The subject matter that is intended to be within the spirit of this disclosure is set forth in the following claims.

