---

title: High efficiency distributed device-to-device (D2D) channel access
abstract: Techniques for facilitating device-to-device (D2D) communications using a high efficiency distributed channel access scheme are generally described herein. In some examples, a communication zone allocated for wireless D2D communications is divided into resource contention and scheduled transmission portions. The resource contention segment may be used to transmit a request message from a transmitting device to a receiving device (a request-to-send message), and transmit a response to the request message from the receiving device to the transmitting device (a clear-to-send message). The response can indicate a time for the data transmission to occur during the scheduled transmission segment. During the scheduled transmission segment, the scheduled data transmission and other D2D data transmissions among the various devices will be performed. In further examples, contention access techniques may be used during the resource contention segment to manage access to the resource channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191828&OS=09191828&RS=09191828
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09191828
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121128
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 627 filed on Aug. 3 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by communicating devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to device to device D2D communications between devices facilitated by a wireless network.

D2D wireless communication techniques may be used to offload data communications and perform peer to peer communications among mobile devices and networks. D2D communications between mobile devices e.g. user equipment UEs are generally designed to complement the use of centralized communications from a wireless base station e.g. centralized station to mobile communications from an evolved NodeB eNodeB in a 3GPP Long Term Evolution Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A network . D2D communications can reuse spectrum in licensed communication bands and channels used by a centralized network. Complexity exists however when scheduling and coordinating the D2D communications with the centralized network and independently operating devices.

For example with certain 3GPP LTE LTE A standards a time frequency zone D2D zone may be allocated by the eNodeB for D2D communications. Within the D2D zone contention based channel access techniques may be used to manage distributed device access to D2D communication resources. Contention based channel access helps to minimize the scheduling and control overhead on the common interface used by the eNodeB and multiple D2D UEs. Some contention based methods such as Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance CSMA CA are not efficient however in terms of the contention overhead and power consumption due to packet collisions and channel monitoring.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein provide for an efficient contention based channel access scheme for D2D wireless communications. This contention based channel access scheme may be deployed in assigned or allocated D2D communication zones or segments such as in a D2D communication zone allocated in a carrier based wireless communication network. The contention based channel access scheme described herein for the D2D communications also incorporates use of scheduling techniques to coordinate the performance of the data transferred requested by the contention procedure.

In one example the D2D communication zone is allocated into a resource allocation segment e.g. a Random Access Channel RACH time period and a scheduled communication segment e.g. a Scheduled SCH time period . During the resource allocation segment a series of request and acknowledgment messages such as a request to send RTS message and clear to send CTS message may be exchanged between devices. The RTS message may be sent by a transmitting device in the resource allocation segment to request resources in the D2D zone to perform a wireless transmission. The CTS message may be sent in response to the RTS message to indicate a scheduled time in the scheduled communication segment when a receiving device will monitor the resource to receive the wireless transmission. At the scheduled time during the scheduled communication segment the transmitting device and the receiving device can perform the D2D wireless communication.

The D2D communication techniques described herein provide a joint contention and scheduling mechanism that addresses deficiencies of exclusive contention or scheduling techniques. One commonly used contention technique CSMA CA is deployed in communications for wireless networks such as IEEE 802.11 standard compliant implementations. CSMA CA implementations typically use a backoff counter to wait a random number of slots to help find an opportunity to send the data packet. If the channel is idle then a packet is sent.

The D2D communication technique described herein enables the actual data transmission to be scheduled and reserved. This ensures that a particular data packet can be transmitted without interference while using contention based techniques to request the scheduling. This enables a method which can transform the original contention mechanism into a distributed scheduling mechanism to cause less contention and network pollution. Further use of the distributed scheduling mechanism enables multiple pairs of devices to exchange data in a scheduled window. Information from the scheduling window can be used to further coordinate power usage communications and other aspects of the D2D wireless network.

The D2D communications may be performed among the various mobile devices A B C using the contention and scheduling techniques for D2D connections described herein. Pairs of D2D capable communication devices can talk to each other and may be co located in a same area. Specifically a D2D connection may be established between smartphone A and mobile phone B a D2D connection may be established between mobile phone B and personal computer C and a D2D connection may be established between smartphone A and personal computer C.

The carrier based network controlled by the carrier network system may be used to facilitate operations of the D2D connections . The carrier based network and various devices subsystems and components within the carrier based network such as an eNodeB may schedule or coordinate a communication window and timing for allowed D2D capabilities. The carrier network system may also communicate availability and connection details among the various mobile devices A B C and indicate the type of data to be communicated using the D2D connections or when usage of the D2D connections is required or encouraged. The D2D connections may be conducted among the receiving devices A B C using the same or different communication frequencies and spectrum as that of the carrier based network. This may include licensed or unlicensed spectrum using the same network protocol e.g. a network protocol operating according to a LTE LTE A or other 3GPP standard or other network protocols e.g. a network protocol operating according to a standard from an IEEE 802.11 or 802.16 standards family or a Bluetooth standard promulgated from the Bluetooth Special Interest Group .

In one example implementation all contentions for D2D communication resource occur only in the D2D RACH segment . This results in only a small number of possible D2D devices the winners of the contention actively communicating in the D2D SCH segment . Use of a contention resource in the D2D RACH segment followed by scheduling in the D2D SCH segment enables devices to effectively coordinate operations particularly where a large number of potential devices may be communicating.

Limiting contention to the D2D RACH segment and actual data transmissions to the D2D SCH segment may be used to retain the flexibility of contention based D2D communication while enabling the reduction of power consumption for many devices. For example D2D devices not involved with a scheduled communication may choose to enter a power saving or reduced communication mode during the duration of the D2D SCH segment . Likewise D2D devices which are involved with a scheduled communication during only a portion of the D2D SCH segment may choose to wake from a low power state on an as needed basis and re enter the low power state according to the schedule.

In contrast the power consumption of devices implementing various contention techniques such as CSMA CA may be much higher than with the presently described technique. This is because with the use of CSMA CA each active device is generally required to be active at all times to detect the received packets over the wireless channel and prevent the device from missing a packet addressed to it . Scheduling multiple D2D transmissions one at a time within a scheduling window enables many D2D devices to reduce power and channel monitoring requirements.

During the D2D RACH segment all active D2D devices monitor the channel for potential transmission or reception. In the example of there is a request to send message transmitted by Device A to indicate a request to perform a data transmission to Device B and a request to send message transmitted by Device C to indicate a request to perform a data transmission to Device D . These request to send messages used to invoke responses in the form of a clear to send message from Device B and a clear to send message from Device D .

During the D2D RACH Segment the device implements a contention based technique to manage channel access for multiple transmissions over the wireless communication medium. This may be performed through the use of a collision avoidance technique with the generation of a backoff time for a busy channel similar to use of a CSMA CA technique. When the backoff time expires and time remains within the D2D RACH segment a transmitting device may send a request to send message to a receiving device. If a receiving device receives the request to send message successfully the receiving device may respond by a clear to send message.

The clear to send response message is distinguishable from existing CSMA CA mechanisms used in IEEE 802.11 or other wireless network standards due to the inclusion of an explicit transmission or scheduling time in the response message. The transmission time denoted as time to send may be specified in a clear to send message such that a transmitting device knows when to turn on its transmitter to send the packet e.g. with Device A s data transmission during D2D SCH segment . Further the clear to send message may be used to inform other listening receiving devices in the network whether the scheduled channel will be in use by the communicating devices.

When a contention mechanism indicates that previous use of the contention channel is now concluded such as a backoff time expires for Device C in the D2D RACH channel and the channel is detected as being available Device C may send a request to send message to Device D . A time to send indication is specified in this message. If Device D receives the request to send message successfully Device D will respond by a clear to send message with a time to send indication to inform both Device C and other listening devices e.g. Device A Device B of the transmission time for Device C s data transmission .

The size of the request to send clear to send message packet may be configured to be small to conserve bandwidth and resources. The request to send clear to send message may be configured to only provide a simple indication of how much time to reserve in the request to send packet and what time is reserved in the clear to send response packet . Device neighbors of the transmitting and receiving devices can also observe the request to send clear to send packets to learn about the scheduling and specific time reservation. In contrast with use of request to send clear to send packets in IEEE 802.11 standard networks there is no such information on scheduling or timing within the clear to send message packet. Rather the clear to send message in IEEE 802.11 standard networks is used to invoke immediate transmission of data and not a scheduled transmission of data in a separate time window.

Thus request to send clear to send packets are exchanged in the D2D RACH segment and scheduling is established for the actual data transmission s over the wireless channel in the D2D SCH segment . This enables active and observing devices to know exact transmission times and keep track of channel usage. During the duration of the D2D SCH segment only successfully scheduled devices involved in transmission and receipt in the D2D RACH segment need to be powered and active at the scheduled time. For example when it is the time for Devices A and B to transmit and receive with data communication Devices C and D can enter or maintain a sleep power saving mode to minimize power consumption. Likewise Devices A and B can enter or maintain a sleep power saving mode during the time that devices C and D communicate with data transmission .

Device A obtains access to the D2D RACH segment using a contention access technique. As illustrated this may include a CSMA CA type of backoff technique including obtaining a backoff time operation and waiting for the backoff time to expire operation . Device A sends the request to send RTS message operation to Device B repeating the RTS message until acknowledged operation or until a specified number of tries is exceeded unless the D2D RACH segment has concluded .

Device B responds by sending a clear to send message operation indicating a designated time to send operation of when Device A can start to send data packets of the data transmission. Upon the conclusion of the D2D RACH segment and the start of the D2D SCH segment Device A and Device B may enter sleep modes until the designated time to send operation and time to receive operation respectively. At the time to send operation and the time to receive operation the data can be transmitted over the wireless medium from Device A to Device B .

The time to send designated in operation may be indicated by an offset time t from the start of the D2D SCH segment . The offset time t can be defined in some resolved time unit of the carrier network e.g. a number of time slots. Likewise when another device such as Device D of sends a clear to send response the clear to send response message may indicate when Device C of can start to send data packets at an offset time t from the start of the D2D SCH Segment .

The boundary between the D2D RACH segment and the D2D SCH segment can be set explicitly or implicitly. Restated the amount of time for actual scheduled transmissions versus contention for the scheduled transmission can be fixed or adjusted. For explicit definition this boundary can be defined by the eNodeB another other network entity or set according to pre defined rules for D2D communications.

For implicit definition the boundary can be adjusted by D2D devices in each frame e.g. during each D2D RACH segment or for multiple frames using one scheduling effective for N number of frames . The boundary may be adjusted based upon the successful channel reservations that are known to all devices. The last device that sends a request to send message can calculate if the duration of the D2D RACH segment plus the duration of the D2D SCH segment including the outstanding request might exceed the D2D Zone . If the answer is no which means there is enough time remaining in the D2D Zone to conduct the request and the data transmission the transmitting device can send a request to send message. Thus the boundary of the D2D RACH segment and the D2D SCH segment can be set automatically after the reception of a clear to send message sent from the last device in the D2D RACH segment .

Before providing a request to send message or a response to the request to send a clear to send message the devices may perform a calculation to ensure that the duration of all scheduled data transmissions will not exceed the D2D zone boundary. If the total transmission will exceed the D2D zone boundary the transmission s may be split up or the transmission s may be rescheduled to another D2D zone. D2D devices may know or may be informed of the size duration of available D2D zone resources e.g. how many time slots exist for usage with the D2D communications . Thus D2D devices or UEs can decide scheduling of a shared channel by themselves using distributive techniques.

If as a result of decision the contention segment for the D2D communication is ongoing a determination is made whether the wireless channel is free decision . If the channel is not free the data transmission is delayed for at least a backoff period operation . If the channel is free the device may proceed with transmitting a request for scheduled data resources operation and a specification of the size or other attributes of the data to send operation . A determination is then made whether the transmitting wireless communication device receives a clear to send acknowledgement and a time to send within a period of time decision . If no clear to send acknowledgment has been received within a period of time then a determination is made whether the number of times that the request was transmitted exceeds a maximum number of attempts decision . If the maximum number of attempts is not exceeded then the contention process is repeated decision if the maximum number of attempts is exceeded then the D2D communication is delayed until a next contention segment operation . If however the clear to send acknowledgment and the time to send are successfully received then the data transmission may occur during the designated time to send operation .

In operation still during the resource contention window the transmitting device receives a response to the request message originating from the receiving device. The response includes a designated communication time for use during a scheduled window of the D2D time frequency zone.

In operation during the scheduled window of the D2D time frequency zone the data will be transmitted at the designated communication time. Various scheduling and re scheduling mechanisms may be employed within the D2D time frequency zone or in another D2D time frequency zone to re transmit the data upon failure or interruption of the data transmission or lack of acknowledgment. The data transmission is then processed by the receiving device upon the successful receipt.

In operation still during the resource contention window the receiving device transmits a response to the request message for receipt by the transmitting device. The response includes a designated communication time for use during a scheduled window of the D2D time frequency zone.

In operation during the scheduled window of the D2D time frequency zone the data will be received from the transmitting device starting at the designated communication time. The data transmission may be further processed by the receiving device upon the successful receipt and an acknowledgment may be sent in response to receipt of the data.

The techniques and configurations described herein may be extended to operate in other configurations. For example the techniques may be used in connection with a peer to peer or point to point network which involves connections over a plurality of devices e.g. connections involving multiple hops . The techniques may also be used in connection with a standardized protocol defining response messages formats timing and conditions. Thus implementations of the presently described contention and scheduling techniques are not limited to implementations with a 3GPP standard but may also extend to device to device peer to peer point to point machine to machine and distributed networks in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards IEEE 802.16 standards and the like.

Functionality for the present technique may be incorporated in components or modules in a computing system including a mobile device a wireless network adapter a wireless transceiver control circuitry for such systems and devices and in hardware and software implementations. Further various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions of the functionality described herein may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning System GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area Internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of PANs LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a wireless communication device e.g. a UE comprising processing circuitry arranged to communicate with an evolved Node B eNodeB using a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A network connection and to facilitate device to device communications with a receiving UE using a direct network connection by performing operations to send a request message to a receiving UE during a resource contention window the resource contention window allocated for scheduling device to device communications in a wireless channel using a contention channel access technique the request message indicating a size for a data transmission receive a response to the request message from the receiving UE the response confirming the request message and designating a transmission time for the data transmission and the designated transmission time occurring within a scheduled transmission window allocated for conducting the device to device communications and perform the data transmission with the receiving UE during the scheduled transmission window allocated for conducting the device to device communications on the wireless channel at the designated transmission time.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include the processing circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to maintain a low power mode at the wireless communication device beginning at a start of the scheduled transmission window until the designated transmission time.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include the processing circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to perform a contention channel access technique to obtain access to the wireless channel during the resource contention window the contention channel access technique including obtaining a backoff time for contention during the resource contention window and waiting for the backoff time to expire prior to sending the request message during the resource contention window.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include the processing circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to resend the request message during the resource contention window in response to the request message not being acknowledged by the receiving device within a period of time.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window being allocated in subframes for an uplink period defined in a carrier network.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the uplink period being defined in the carrier network according to a standard provided from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standards family.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window being allocated for peer to peer communications among devices according to a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family or for machine to machine communications among devices according to a standard from an IEEE 802.16 standards family.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window occurring in a zone allocated for the device to device communications in a wireless channel wherein a size of the resource contention window relative to the scheduled transmission window is configured to change based on characteristics of one or more data transmissions requested during the resource contention window.

Example 9 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 to include a method performed by a dual mode user equipment UE for facilitating device to device communications with a receiving wireless communications device the dual mode UE configured for communications with a carrier based network in addition to the device to device communications and the method comprising accessing a wireless channel using a contention channel access technique within a resource contention window allocated for scheduling device to device communications in a wireless channel the resource contention window occurring during a device to device communications period indicated by a carrier based network transmitting a request message to the receiving communications device within the resource contention window to obtain a designated transmission time for a device to device data transmission and conducting the device to device data transmission from the transmitting communications device to the receiving communications device at the designated transmission time within a scheduled transmission window allocated for performing for the device to device communications in the wireless channel the scheduled transmission window occurring during a device to device communications period indicated by the carrier based network.

In Example 10 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include conducting a sleep mode within the scheduled transmission window and interrupting the sleep mode within the scheduled transmission window to conduct the device to device data transmission.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 10 can optionally include the contention access technique including obtaining a backoff time for contention within the resource contention window and waiting for the backoff time to expire prior to transmitting the request message within the resource contention window.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 11 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window being allocated in one or more subframes for a scheduled uplink period defined for a carrier network and wherein the scheduled uplink period is an uplink period established by a carrier network operating according to a standard provided from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standards family.

Example 13 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 12 to include User Equipment UE comprising a transceiver comprising circuitry including physical layer circuitry and media access control layer circuitry the circuitry arranged to establish device to device channel access in a wireless communication medium by performing operations to receive a request message from a transmitting device to conduct a data transmission during a resource contention window the resource contention window being allocated for wireless device to device communications the request message indicating a size for a data transmission and being sent from the transmitting device on the wireless communication medium using a contention based technique send a response to the request message the response confirming the request message and designating a time for the data transmission the transmission time occurring within a scheduled transmission window allocated for the wireless device to device communications and receive the data transmission from the transmitting device via the wireless communication medium at the designated time during the scheduled transmission window allocated for the wireless device to device communications wherein the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window are allocated for the wireless device to device communications according to timing designated by a network controlled by an evolved Node B eNodeB .

In Example 14 the subject matter of Example 13 can optionally include the circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to maintain from the transmitting device a low power mode beginning at a start of the scheduled transmission window until the designated time.

In Example 15 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 14 can optionally include the circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to obtain a backoff time for contention during the resource contention window and waiting for the backoff time to expire prior to sending the response to the request message wherein the response to the request message is sent during the resource contention window.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 15 can optionally include the circuitry being further arranged to perform operations to provide an acknowledgement of data received from the transmitting device in response to the data transmission.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 16 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window being allocated in time slots for a scheduled uplink period defined for a carrier network provided from the eNodeB.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 13 17 can optionally include the scheduled uplink period being an uplink period defined according to a standard provided from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standards family.

Example 19 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 18 to include a method for facilitating device to device communications with a transmitting device comprising processing a request message to conduct a data transmission during a resource contention window and obtain a time of transmission for the data transmission the request message indicating a size for the data transmission and being sent from the transmitting device over a wireless medium using a contention channel access technique to access the wireless medium transmitting a response to the request message the response confirming the request message and designating a transmission time for the data transmission the transmission time designated within a scheduled transmission window and processing the data transmission from the transmitting device on the wireless channel received at a designated communication time during the scheduled transmission window wherein the scheduled transmission window and the resource contention window are designated by an evolved Node B eNodeB for performance of wireless device to device communications on the wireless medium.

In Example 20 the subject matter of Example 19 can optionally include conducting a sleep mode during the scheduled transmission window and interrupting the sleep mode during the scheduled transmission window to conduct the data transmission.

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 20 can optionally include the response to the request message being transmitted via the wireless medium in connection with the contention channel access technique wherein the contention channel access technique includes obtaining a backoff time for contention during the resource contention window and waiting for the backoff time to expire prior to transmitting the response to the request message during the resource contention window.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 21 can optionally include the resource contention window and the scheduled transmission window being allocated for a scheduled uplink period defined for a network operating according to a standard provided from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A standards family.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

