---

title: System and method for posting content to network sites
abstract: A system and method for posting content to network sites are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes providing, by use of a data processor, a user interface at a location-specific kiosk, the user interface enabling a user to capture an image at the location-specific kiosk; applying an overlay to the captured image to produce posting content; receiving a community site selection and community site credentials at the location-specific kiosk; using the community site credentials to authenticate with the selected community site via a data network; and posting the posting content at the authenticated community site via the data network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087178&OS=09087178&RS=09087178
owner: CONVIVIAL CORPORATION
number: 09087178
owner_city: Sacramento
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120425
---
A portion of the disclosure in this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software data and documentation as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2011 2012 iSnap Corporation All Rights Reserved.

This patent application relates to a system and method for use with networked computer systems according to one embodiment and more specifically to a system and method for posting content to network sites.

Using technology available today individuals can use numerous methods for recording digital images of photographed subjects in a still or video form. People can capture these images with digital cameras cell phone cameras Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and or other smart devices. Such devices have the ability of storing these images for later access and further support the ability to disseminate them via the internet. However these image capture devices are typically mobile and thus are not location specific. Other conventional technologies provide location specific kiosks for use in various applications. For example some kiosks provide DVD rentals coin exchanges remote banking or payment stations or photographic processing. Other well known photo kiosks can be generally configured in the form of booths or stalls where users or subjects can pose against a background fixed in the enclosed area while the users take a photograph of themselves. While some of these kiosks have limited forms of network connectivity the conventional kiosks are nevertheless usually stand alone systems.

Social networks have gained in popularity as people have started to use content sources and content itself as a basis for connecting with each other. Various conventional sites such as facebook.com twitter.com linkedin.com youtube.com and pinterest.com are just a few examples of the community resources and social networks that have grown in popularity. However the location specific devices and kiosk systems in the conventional technologies have not been able to exploit and commercialize the communication capabilities of the social networks and other network resources.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

Referring to in an example embodiment a system and method for posting content to network sites are disclosed. In various example embodiments an application or service operating on a kiosk and or host site e.g. a website is provided to simplify and facilitate content posting from a location specific image capture device provided by kiosk to a community resource such as facebook.com twitter.com an email server or the like. Once content is posted to a community resource as facilitated by the host site users at network connected platforms can view the postings at the community resource sites. The host site can thereby be considered a content posting management site as described herein. Multiple network resources can be used by the content posting management site to receive and transmit data. For example content resources can include a plurality of location specific image capture device such as kiosks . As described in more detail below kiosks are image capture systems physically located in a variety of popular venues such as amusement parks malls resorts hotels airports and the like. Content resources can also include a variety of network accessible sites or websites such as search engines e.g. Google advertising servers or ad repositories syndication sites e.g. sites or devices supporting content feeds such as Atom Really Simple Syndication RSS Representational State Transfer REST and the like web services e.g. Amazon SQS web feed services and the like and other sites providing desired content and or services which can be accessed and or used by host site . Syndication sites can include websites feed enabled devices such as mobile devices with applications configured for content feeds web widgets alternate display devices and the like. Content resources can be accessed directly using a link or uniform resource locator URL . Content resources can be used to obtain or service a variety of network transportable digital content such as web pages documents images video audio media and other forms of content available via a wide area data network such as the Internet . For example the kiosks of content resources can be used to originate photographs or videos of people present at a particular venue where the kiosk is located.

Community resources are network accessible sites on which individuals businesses organizations or other entities may create identities with associated profiles and provide information about the entity and a means for communicating with the entity. Such identities and profiles can include biographical information product service information contact information historical information transactional information affinity information affiliation information or a wide variety of structured or unstructured information related to a particular entity. Various conventional sites such as facebook.com twitter.com youtube.com linkedin.com and pinterest.com are just a few examples of the available community resources . These sites operate as gathering locations for users to connect and form groups or communities of users. Sometimes these types of sites are denoted as social networks. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that content resources can be any of a variety of networked content providers or service providers. It will also be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that community resources can include a variety of network sites including social network sites data aggregation sites marketing sites financial sites news sites and the like. The content posting management site content resources community resources and user platforms may communicate and transfer information via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . Various components of the content posting management site can also communicate internally via a conventional intranet or local area network LAN .

Networks and are configured to couple one computing device with another computing device. Networks and may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Network can include the Internet in addition to LAN wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent between computing devices. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T T T and T Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital User Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link.

Networks and may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Networks and may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of networks and may change rapidly.

Networks and may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example networks and may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. Networks and may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence networks and may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like. In one embodiment network may represent a LAN that is configured behind a firewall not shown within a business data center for example.

The content resources may include any of a variety of providers of network transportable digital content. Typically the file format that is employed is Extensible Markup Language XML however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats may be used. For example data formats other than Hypertext Markup Language HTML XML or formats other than open standard data formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG format Tagged Image File format TIFF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein.

In a particular embodiment a user platform with one or more client devices enables a user to access a content resource a community resource or the content posting management site via the network . Client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and or receive information over a network such as network . Such client devices may include portable devices or such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers PCs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and send a message with relevant information.

Client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive content or messages from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content alerts messages notifications and the like. Moreover client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like. Client devices may also include a wireless application device on which a client application is configured to enable a user of the device to send and receive information to from network resources wirelessly via the network .

Referring still to host site of an example embodiment is shown to include a content posting management system intranet optional and content posting management database . Content posting management system includes kiosk management module post data acquisition module post data processing module feed support module user services module and analytics module . Each of these modules can be implemented as software components executing within an executable environment of content posting management system operating on host site . Each of these modules of an example embodiment is described in more detail below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring now to a system overview of an example embodiment is illustrated. In a particular embodiment the system includes a host server in networked data communication with a kiosk a host cloud one or more community sites one or more syndicated sites or resources supporting Atom or RSS feeds and one or more advertising or marketing content servers . The kiosk described in more detail below is an image and or motion video capturing device located at a known physical location and under control of a host server . Using the user interfaces and data processing described in more detail below a user can interact with kiosk and cause a picture or video to be captured at the kiosk . The user can also enter a brief message with the picture or video. In one embodiment the user entered message can be appended to the picture or video. The user can also optionally annotate the picture or video. The user can also specify a particular community resource or more than one community resource such as facebook.com or twitter.com and enter corresponding account credentials associated with the specified community resource s . In one embodiment the kiosk can obtain the identity of the selected community resource s and the account credentials entered by the user at the kiosk and authenticate the user s account on the corresponding community site s . In another embodiment the host server can obtain the identity of the selected community resource and the account credentials entered by the user at the kiosk and authenticate the user s account on the corresponding community site s . In yet another embodiment the kiosk or host server can obtain the identity of the selected community resource and the account credentials from a previously entered user profile and authenticate the user s account on the corresponding community site s . In any of these implementations a single sign on capability can be provided to the user. Single sign on in an example embodiment is described in more detail below. Upon successful user authentication the kiosk or via the host server can automatically post the picture or video and the user s message to the selected community site s . In this manner a user at a particular kiosk location can automatically post content to one or more community sites . In one embodiment the user can post to multiple community sites using a single user input e.g. a click keystroke voice command or the like . In another embodiment a user can post to multiple page targets to like checkin etc. with a single trigger click. This feature provides the ability to like checkin and or post to multiple targets just by making one post.

In other example embodiments additional features such as social media check in age verification and a single touch to post feature can be implemented. These features are described below.

Social Media Check in Because the kiosk knows its geo location and a source for the location s community resource information we can automatically check in the user to the particular geo location when the user interacts with the kiosk .

Age Verification As part of the log in or sign in process the user may be prompted for their age or birthdate. Based on that age information the user may not be allowed to use the device e.g. too young or the user may be processed differently e.g. a picture won t be posted to an inappropriate community site e.g. a community site associated with adult alcohol related or gambling content or the posting content may not be syndicated out to a network resource or a different selection of overlays sponsors etc. can be provided to a kiosk end user based on the age of the user.

Single Touch to Post different from single sign on In one embodiment a single touch posting feature can be implemented in a manner similar to the Amazon 1 Click shopping feature. In the embodiment the single touch posting feature enables the user to log into their host account the picture taking process at the kiosk automatically starts and the picture is immediately posted to their community resource site . In this case the only action from the user is that they signed into the host and the rest of the picture taking process is automated. Note that the single touch to post feature is different from the single sign on feature also described herein.

Still referring to the system includes a host cloud which represents a back office interface into host server for management of the host server the kiosks and the associated network. The host cloud can also collect usage data via the host server the usage data being generated on the kiosks by the interactions of users of the kiosks . The usage data is a portion of the contextual data set described in more detail below. The host cloud can use a virtual network channel VNC to connect with the kiosk in a private data exchange via a virtual private network VPN server. The VNC can be used to initialize and configure the kiosks for operation in system . The detail of this connection is shown in . Additionally as also shown in the software in kiosks can be downloaded or updated from a file transport protocol FTP server using well known techniques. The kiosk software itself is described in more detail below in connection with .

Referring again to the system can include a connection to one or more syndication sites . Syndication sites represent sites or devices e.g. mobile devices which can pull content via conventional Atom or RSS feeds and make approved content available for public consumption to a variety of consumers including websites website widgets mobile devices mobile apps and the like. RSS Really Simple Syndication is a family of standard web feed formats used to publish frequently updated works such as image captures blog entries news headlines audio and video in a standardized format. An RSS document which is called a feed web feed or channel includes content with full or summarized text plus metadata such as publishing dates and authorship. RSS feeds benefit publishers by letting them syndicate content automatically. A standardized XML file format allows the information to be published once and viewed by many different programs. RSS feeds benefit readers who want to subscribe or otherwise obtain access to timely updates from favorite websites or to aggregate feeds from many sites into one place. The host server can collect the content and related data generated on the kiosks by the interactions of users of the kiosks . As described above this content can be posted to the community sites as selected by the user who originated the content at the kiosk . Additionally the host server can make this content and related data generated on the kiosks available to the syndication sites as content feeds. The host server can configure the content to be compatible with an Atom or RSS feed which can pull the content to various syndicated websites or devices. The host server protects the content by preventing access to the content by any unauthorized sites or devices. The host server provides a security feature through the kiosks wherein the user at the kiosk can approve or disapprove the syndication and subsequent general publication of the user s content generated at the kiosk .

Referring still to the system can include a connection to one or more advertising ad or marketing content servers . Advertising or marketing content servers represent sites at which various promotional advertising ad or marketing content e.g. ad impressions banner ads listings logos surveys promotional offers coupons contests lead generation and the like is stored or sites from which the ad content can be retrieved. As well known ad servers can be provided by advertisers product service providers ad or marketing content aggregators and the like. As also well known ad servers can serve up ads according to various matching or filtering criteria including product service category keyword matching geo location demographic profiling and the like. In this manner ad servers can provide ad content matching which is relevant to the various matching or filtering criteria. Given the ad content available via the ad servers host server can gather a variety of contextual data related or potentially related to a user interacting with a kiosk . This contextual data is detailed below in connection with . In general the contextual data includes data captured from various sources that specifies user characteristics location time user actions ancillary data obtained from sites with which the user has interacted community resources related to the user user data or profiles obtained via search engines demographic data image recognition data text recognition data explicit user selections or preference data and a variety of other information that is indicative of user affinity for particular types of products services or event targeting. The host server in combination with the kiosk can gather and process the contextual data and develop a set of ad matching or filtering criteria which can be used by the host server to request relevant ad content from the ad servers . In an alternative embodiment the host server can maintain its own database of ad content which can be used as a source of ad content relevant to the set of ad matching or filtering criteria which in turn is relevant to the contextual data gathered by the host server . As shown in the host server gathers a portion of the contextual data from the user interaction at the kiosk . As described above this contextual data is used to fetch relevant ad content from the ad servers . The relevant ad content can then be transferred to the kiosk and merged with the image captured as part of the user s interaction with the kiosk . This user interaction with the kiosk is described in more detail below. The contextual data can also be used to implement automatic tagging of posting content. For example automatic tagging of posted content can be based on image recognition location event brand or other information related to the user that can be inferred. Additionally meta data such as exif can be added to the posting content. The meta data can be used to trace the consumption of the posting content throughout the network.

In addition to image analysis recognition an example embodiment can provide sentiment analysis of posting content text and of response text and can trigger notifications or other actions based on detected sentiment. In one embodiment sentiment analysis can be performed on the messages the user can post along with their pictures. Based on a detected sentiment subsequent actions may be triggered such as an action for someone to follow up with the user who originated the message. For example if the user posted something like Excalibur sucks as part of a posted message the detection of this negative sentiment would trigger a bad sentiment action automatically send an email out to a customer service representative CS e.g. a CS for the Excalibur Hotel and the CS representative could contact the user to follow up.

In an example embodiment contextual ads based on image analysis recognition can be displayed on a primary screen e.g. the kiosk display screen or a display screen of a user at a community site and or a secondary screen such as a network connected advertising display a mobile device or the like. The contextual data can be used to change the user layout or interface on kiosk . Additionally the contextual ad data can also be used in other contexts such as determining what to display on a secondary screen or determining what to display on a mobile device with a mobile application in proximity to the kiosk . Additionally ad campaign scheduling can be performed on kiosk . As part of the whole contextual ad system as described herein ad campaigns can be scheduled within that system. Additionally influencing ads can be distributed in a target channel related to the posting content. For example a user shares a picture in posting content from venue A with friends on a social network e.g. at a community site as described above. Based on the list of friends who received the posting content or who are known to be friends of the originator of the posting content the host server can generate contextual ads for the friends the contextual ads being related for example to the venue A where the posting content originated. In this manner the host server can enable recipients of the posting content on the social network to receive ads about venue A for a following period of time e.g. two weeks .

In an example embodiment a host mobile application app provided with a mobile device e.g. mobile phone PDA tablet etc. can determine if the mobile device is near a kiosk . This proximity detection can be implemented using NFC WiFi or other conventional broadcast signals from the kiosk to a proximate mobile device. Once the mobile device is detected near a kiosk the mobile app can automatically configure itself for that device location event. For example someone s at a Giant s baseball game. There are kiosks in the stadium. A user also has a host mobile app on their mobile device. The mobile app may start streaming pictures that occurred during the game through the host app or the host app can pull up news and events occurring within the location. In this manner an example embodiment provides a feature for linking a person to a location through a mobile device. So if someone has a host mobile app the host mobile app can sense if the mobile device hence the user is in proximity to a kiosk .

In an alternative embodiment the kiosk can include a built in interface to a cellular communication network. Using conventional technology the kiosk can be configured to establish an internet or other network connection via the cellular network. This would allow someone to set up and activate a kiosk in any area with a cellular connection without any action prior to installation. For example the user receives a device moves it to the property location set ups a cellular account on the kiosk and configures the kiosk for operation without having to pre configure activate a cellular account or set up an internet connection at the location. Additionally the quick set up configuration is not limited to just cellular but can include other internet technologies such as WiMax etc. . . . Once the network connection is established the kiosk can perform the features as described herein.

As shown in Photo Kiosk allows a user to take a picture or video enter their account credentials and send it directly to Facebook Twitter or Email. Host Server processes warehouses and serves pictures videos information and ads to and from Kiosks. Regarding Community Networks pictures and videos taken from the Kiosk will be posted to various community networks and systems such as Facebook Twitter or Email. Host Cloud is a back office for users to view data stored and processed on the Host Server. Host Cloud also allows users to remotely configure and manage Kiosks. Regarding Public Consumption Syndication pictures and videos taken by kiosks can be pulled via an Atom RSS Feed for consumption such as websites www.isnap.at website widget or mobile devices android iphone apps . Only posts approved by the originating user can be pulled by the Atom RSS Feed. Regarding Advertisement or Marketing Content ad content can be retrieved from the Ad Server.

In a particular embodiment system can also employ a proxy server for handling the authentication of a user account on a community site from the kiosk . In some cases the fraud detection functionality of some community sites may reject access requests from unexpected locations. The proxy server can prevent these unnecessary authentication rejections by offering a consistent Internet Protocol IP address to the community site . The proxy server IP address can be whitelisted at the community site thereby increasing the likelihood that the user s authentication request will be granted by the community site . The proxy server can also serve to provide a uniform interface to the community sites for the kiosk . In this manner the complexity of the kiosk processing logic can be simplified.

As shown in regarding FTP Server software updates to the kiosk are pulled from an FTP Server. Regarding VPN Server users on the Host Cloud can connect to Kiosks via VNC through a VPN connection. Regarding Web Services setting and configuration data is sent through Web Services. Regarding Amazon SQS media and transactional data is sent through Amazon SQS. Regarding Proxy Server authentication occurs through a proxy server to maintain the same source IP. The IP address is whitelisted for additional security clearance. Host Server is comprised of a Web Data Advertising and Processing Server. Regarding Posts to sites network posts are performed from the Host Server via any protocol and process as required by the Network. Regarding Atom RSS Feeds to sites post information including pictures and videos can be pulled from the Host Server via RSS Feeds.

Referring still to a kiosk recipient represents another type of human actor interacting at a user platform and establishing a connection with a community site using conventional means. Once connected and or logged into a community site the kiosk recipient can receive and view content posted to the community site from the kiosk end user via the kiosk and host server . For example the kiosk recipient may be a facebook.com user who is a friend of the kiosk end user. Once the kiosk end user posts content to his her facebook.com account by operation of system the kiosk recipient can receive and view the content posted to his her friend s facebook.com account.

Referring still to a media consumer represents another type of human actor involved in system . A media consumer can interact at a user platform and establish a connection with a website using conventional means. As described above some websites can be configured with syndicated content pulled from host server via Atom RSS feeds. In this manner the content created at kiosk and approved by the kiosk end user can be posted to syndicated websites and viewed by a media consumer. As a result the media consumer does not have to log into a community site to access or view the posted content. Typically the media consumer has no particular relationship to the kiosk end user who created the content at kiosk . Nevertheless the kiosk end user who created the content at kiosk is given the opportunity to approve or decline the posting of his her content to the syndicated websites . Alternatively the kiosk can be preconfigured to automatically approve or decline the posting of content to the syndicated websites .

Referring still to a marketer represents another type of human actor involved in system . A marketer can interact at a user platform and establish a connection with the host cloud using conventional means. The marketer must present authentic and authorized credentials prior to logging into the host cloud . Once logged in the marketer can obtain access to the usage data collected at the kiosk and retained by the host server . This usage data can include kiosk end user identifying information demographic information content information other contextual information kiosk interaction information lead generation information and a variety of information that may be useful to an advertiser a product service provider a venue manager or other person involved in target marketing. Because the kiosk is location and or venue specific the interactions with the kiosk by the co located kiosk end users can provide a wealth of information for marketers. This information can be obtained by marketers via the host cloud .

Referring still to the network operator and the host administrator represent other types of human actors involved in system . The network operator manages the network of kiosks . As described above in connection with the network operator can use a VPN server and an FTP server to load configure and manage the operation of the kiosks . The host administrator represents the actor s responsible for the operation of the system . Given responsibility for managing the host server host cloud and the interaction with kiosks the host administrator can load configure monitor troubleshoot and repair the various components of system to ensure secure and reliable operation.

As shown in a network operator manages and supports the network of kiosks. A kiosk end user uses the kiosk to post a picture or video. A host administrator manages and supports the system as a whole. A kiosk recipient receives pictures or videos sent from the kiosk end user. A media consumer consumes views shares pictures and videos posted by the kiosk end user. The media consumer will not likely have any relations to the user who posted the picture. The marketer uses the data collected and generated by the kiosk.

Additionally the kiosk can include a kiosk software system including a post data acquisition module a post data processing module post data posting module a user interface support module a contextual data support module and an administrative support module . Each of these modules can be implemented as software or processing logic executable by the data processor . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that portions of the software functionality described as implemented in the kiosk can alternatively be implemented at the host site . Each of the modules of the kiosk software system is described below.

Post data acquisition module receives posting content from the kiosk end users at kiosks . The posting content can include image data video data and textual message data created by the kiosk end user at a kiosk . The post data acquisition module can store this posting content locally at the kiosk . The post data acquisition module can also receive usage data generated at the kiosks . The usage data represents data being generated on the kiosks by the interactions of users of the kiosks . This usage data can be used by the host cloud to enable marketing analysis of the kiosk end users.

Post data processing module is used to perform any needed processing on the posting content received from the kiosk end users at the kiosks . For example the post data processing module can obtain appropriate overlays for the posting content. These overlays can be images or image templates which can be combined with the pictures taken of the kiosk end user by the webcam . The use of these overlays is described in more detail below in connection with . In one embodiment the post data processing module can also perform image analysis and or image recognition of the images captured in the posting content. Image analysis and or image recognition can also be performed on a live content feed. The image analysis and or image recognition can be used to derive contextual data regarding the kiosk end user for customizing the overlay or advertising content displayed at the kiosk . Additionally the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to trigger actions such as issuing coupons or awarding loyalty points to the kiosk end user. Also the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to tag or annotate captured photos with for example people names location names object identities time date etc. In some cases the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to perform age verification on people visible in the captured image. The image analysis and or image recognition can also be used to add brand based meta data into the posting content as embedded meta data. The captured usage data and image analysis and or image recognition information can also be used to generate analytics which can be used to assess the effectiveness of product promotions and or kiosk end user interactions. Additionally the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to filter the posting content for various purposes including filtering out offensive or illegal behaviors filtering out unwanted images scanning for particular types of content such as people with traits of interest crowds versus individuals filtering in out posting content with particular tags and the like. Additionally the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to support loyalty programs. For example image analysis and or image recognition can be used to identify a particular user pictured with a friend and award loyalty points on that basis. In another example image analysis and or image recognition can be used to identify a particular user pictured with a particular object or a brand product and award loyalty points on that basis. The image analysis and or image recognition feature of various embodiments can also be used to support loyalty scavenger hunt programs. Image analysis and or image recognition can be used to identify a particular user pictured with a particular object or a brand product and award loyalty scavenger credit on that basis.

Post data posting module is used to post the posting content to user selected community sites in real time. At kiosk the kiosk end user can specify a particular community resource or more than one community resource such as facebook.com or twitter.com and enter corresponding account credentials. The post data posting module can obtain the identity of the selected community resource and the account credentials entered by the user at the kiosk and facilitate authentication of the user s account on the corresponding community site s . The post data posting module can also transfer the posting data to the selected community site s .

The user interface support module is used to manage the user interface at the kiosk for the kiosk end user. The details of the user interface are described below in connection with .

The contextual data support module is used to gather initially process and transfer the contextual data generated at the kiosk by the user interaction at the kiosk . The details of the contextual data processing are described below in connection with .

The administrative support module is used to manage the downloading updating and configuration of the various components of the kiosk . The administrative support module can interact with the kiosk management module of the content posting management system of the host site as described below.

In one embodiment the kiosk can include a conventional wireless transceiver for access to an internet connection. In some cases a non metallic or plastic enclosure for the wireless transceiver is provided at the kiosk to improve wireless signal reception. The kiosk can also include a lighting system that auto adjusts based on ambient light to provide good contrast and high visibility for the kiosk end user.

In one embodiment the kiosk can be implemented as a smartphone e.g. iPhone or tablet e.g. iPad . Geo fencing or GPS can be used to establish a geo location associated with a mobile kiosk.

Kiosk management module provides configuration and control of the kiosks via the network . In one embodiment the configuration and control of the kiosks can be delegated to the host cloud . The kiosk management module of host site and or host cloud can use a virtual network channel VNC to connect with each of the kiosks in a private data exchange via a virtual private network VPN server. The VNC can be used to initialize and configure the kiosks for operation in system . Additionally the software in kiosks can be downloaded or updated from a file transport protocol FTP server using well known techniques under control of kiosk management module .

Post data acquisition module receives posting content from the kiosks . The posting content can include image data video data and textual message data created by the kiosk end user at a kiosk . The post data acquisition module can store this posting content in the database . In one embodiment the posting data can be filtered sorted and indexed for improved retrieval and data mining. The post data acquisition module can also receive usage data from the kiosks . The usage data represents data being generated on the kiosks by the interactions of users of the kiosks . This usage data can be used by the host cloud to enable marketing analysis of the kiosk end users.

Post data processing module is used to perform any needed processing on the posting content received from the kiosks . The post data processing module can also perform image analysis and or image recognition of the images captured in the posting content. The image analysis and or image recognition can be used to derive contextual data regarding the kiosk end user for customizing the overlay or advertising content delivered to the kiosk . Additionally the image analysis and or image recognition can be used to trigger actions such as issuing coupons or awarding loyalty points to the kiosk end user. The image analysis and or image recognition can also be used to add brand based meta data into the posting content as embedded meta data. The captured usage data and image analysis and or image recognition information can also be used to generate analytics which can be used to assess the effectiveness of product promotions and or kiosk end user interactions.

Feed support module is used to support the syndicated websites from the host site . Feed support module can reconfigure or augment the posting content as necessary to make the posting content ready for transmission on an Atom or RSS feed. The feed support module can also perform permission validation to ensure that the kiosk end user who created the posting content has approved the publication of the content to the syndicated sites . In some cases the feed support module may need to synchronize the access to the posting data by a plurality of syndicated sites .

User services module provides the functionality with which a networked computer user operating from a user platform or kiosk can become a user member of a content posting management service of host site and sign in to interact with the content posting management services provided by the content posting management system . In an example embodiment the functional components provided by the user services module can include a user account module and a payment module. The user account module can be used to create and maintain a user account or user identity on the host site . The user account module can also be used to configure user settings create and maintain a user user profile on host site and otherwise manage user data and operational user parameters on host site . The user data and operational parameters can be retained in database . The payment module can be used to submit payment for a user account and for enabling various user services. Additionally when setting up and or configuring a user account on host site the user can also provide the authentication credentials necessary to access the user account.

In an alternative embodiment a single sign on capability can be implemented. A single sign on capability can include the use of a variety of technologies for engaging a user. One such technology is a conventional Near Field Communication NFC device and protocol. NFC is a set of standards for smartphones and similar devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity. NFC can be used in an example embodiment at a kiosk for example to enable a kiosk end user to sign into a host user account using NFC with a mobile device such as a smartphone. Alternatively a QR Code Quick Response Code can be used to enable a kiosk end user to sign into a host user account. A QR Code is the trademark for a type of matrix barcode or two dimensional code which can be used to encode user sign in information. Alternatively a host username and password associated with the user can be used to enable a kiosk end user to sign into a host user account. Alternatively a host enabled magnetic card or credit card associated with the user can be used to enable a kiosk end user to sign into a host user account with a swipe of the card. Alternatively conventional face recognition and or voice recognition technologies can be used to enable a kiosk end user to sign into a host user account. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of other well known technologies can be employed to enable a kiosk end user to sign into his her account. In one embodiment the user account at the host site can have pre configured community site account credentials configured for the user. Upon signing into the user account at the host site or at the kiosk the preconfigured community site account credentials can be automatically obtained for the user without the user having to re enter these credentials when posting to a community site for which community site account credentials were pre configured by the user.

Analytics module is used to process captured kiosk usage data and image analysis and or image recognition information to be used to generate analytics which can be used to assess the effectiveness of product promotions and or kiosk end user interactions. In an example embodiment the analytics module can generate data sets that correspond to an online presence relative to a plurality of kiosks. Similarly the analytics module can also generate data sets that correspond to the aggregated data relative to a plurality of kiosks a plurality of venues a plurality of kiosk user types and or performance of a plurality of advertisements. Moreover the analytics module can also generate aggregate relevance scores that correspond to the aggregated online presence relative to a plurality of brands a plurality of content sources and a plurality of user profiles. Thus the analytics module can generate a variety of relevance score data that corresponds to an online presence across multiple brands multiple content sources and multiple user profiles. These generated analytics data can be computed by the analytics module and stored in database . Additionally the analytics module can generate data sets related to brands kiosk sites and user profiles. This information retained in database can be accessed and formatted into various reports pages lists graphics and the like as requested by a user. The analytics module can also be configured to cause periodic or continual polling of posting content for engagement tracking analysis. In some cases meta data added to the posting content can be used to generate analytics data related to the consumption of the posting content throughout the network. The analytics module can also be configured to track the relationships between kiosk user engagement and direct responses. In this manner analytics data can be generated as related to the effectiveness of particular promotional materials user interface configurations community site involvement and the like.

An example embodiment of the posting process is shown in . Referring to at block a kiosk end user can interact with the user interface driven by the software of a kiosk to cause the webcam of kiosk to snap a photograph or capture a video of the kiosk end user. The kiosk end user can also enter a brief message with the photograph or video. The kiosk end user can also specify a particular community resource or more than one community resource such as facebook.com or twitter.com and enter corresponding account credentials for the selected community site s . In block the kiosk software optionally in concert with the host server can authenticate the user s account on the corresponding community site s . Upon successful user authentication the kiosk software can receive in block a token from the community site at which the kiosk end user has been authorized to post content. The token can be used to actually perform the content post on the community site . Alternatively the kiosk software can generate a token based on information received from the community site . Having authenticated the kiosk end user on the community site the kiosk software at block can retrieve additional background information about the user from the community site and or any other network sites that may provide background information on the kiosk end user. This user background information can include information from the user s public profile on the community site e.g. demographics user related dates location interests etc. . Further the retrieved background information can be used to obtain additional background information from the same or different sites. In an alternative embodiment the host server can gather all or a portion of the user background information. In this manner a variety of user background information can be gathered and used to derive contextual data regarding the kiosk end user for customizing the overlay or advertising content delivered to and or displayed by the kiosk . Additionally the user background information can be used to trigger actions such as issuing coupons or awarding loyalty points to the kiosk end user. Given the location specific information provided by the kiosk the coupons loyalty points and other promotional materials can be location specific. The user background information can also be used to add brand based meta data into the posting content as embedded meta data. The user background information can also be used to generate analytics which can be used to assess the effectiveness of product promotions and or kiosk end user interactions. In block the kiosk software or the host server can establish a link between the kiosk end user s community site account and an account of a product service brand being featured by the posting system . For example the well known functionality provided by facebook.com like for example can be used to establish the kiosk end user as a Facebook fan of a particular brand having a facebook.com account such as Coca Cola. In this manner the brand gains a Facebook fan and a potential customer. In another example the well known functionality provided by twitter.com for example can be used to establish the kiosk end user as a Twitter follower of the particular brand having a twitter.com account. Similar links between the kiosk end user and a brand account can be similarly automatically established. In this way various embodiments can support automatically linking a user account at the authenticated community site with a brand account at the authenticated community site. The links between the kiosk end user account and the brand account are only established if approved by the kiosk end user via an opt in or opt out selection described in more detail below. The particular brand featured and linked can be selected dynamically based on the contextual data associated with the particular kiosk end user selected based on a particular ad campaign or selected based on other criteria. In each case the system automatically establishes a link between the kiosk end user and the featured brand.

Referring still to at block the kiosk software can assemble the posting content and any related messages or meta data into a queue message. As shown in and described above the data exchange between the kiosk and the host server can be configured through web services and web based queuing e.g. Amazon Simple Queue Service SQS . A web queuing configuration facilitates the implementation of an automated workflow without requiring that either the sending system or the receiving system be available. Once the posting content and any related messages or meta data are incorporated into a queue message the queue message can be sent to a web based queuing system in block . The web based queuing system can notify the host server of the pending queue message. In block the host server can retrieve the queue message. In block the host server can process the queue message received from the kiosk . As part of this queue message processing the host server can disassemble the queue message and isolate the posting content generated on the kiosk by the kiosk end user. The host server can also isolate the user entered message if any and any related meta data associated with the queue message. In block the host server can store the posting content and related identifying information into database . The host server can also make the posting content available for pick up by the syndicated sites in a content feed as described above. Additionally queue messages can be used to transfer the contextual data gathered by the kiosk to the host server . The contextual data can be used by the host server and or the host cloud to select relevant ad content and to generate the analytics data sets associated with the user interactions at the kiosk .

As shown in the main display screen shown to a kiosk end user can be comprised of several elements. Each element can be displayed in a particular area of the display screen. For example the main display screen in an example embodiment can include an overlay component a live preview component and a sponsorship component. The overlay component can represent a framing overlay which serves to frame the image of the kiosk end user captured by the webcam . In one embodiment the overlay can include a brand identifier or logo associated with the physical location or venue where the particular kiosk is physically located. In this manner the image captured at the kiosk can be branded with the particular geo location corresponding to the physical location where the image was captured. This location branding provides location context for the captured image. Similarly time date information can be included in the overlay and applied to the captured image thereby providing timing context for the captured image. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other information graphics or animations can be similarly included in the overlay applied to the captured image.

As shown in the main display screen in an example embodiment can also include a live preview component. The live preview component can be a live feed from the webcam of kiosk which may show the image of the kiosk end user against an image backdrop provided at the kiosk location. In another embodiment the backdrop can be a green screen which allows any arbitrary image to be substituted into the preview frame in place of the green screen. In one embodiment there may be multiple optional overlays and green screens from which the user may choose. The live preview component remains live until the kiosk end user takes a picture e.g. activates an image capture button provided as part of the main screen as described in more detail below.

As shown in the main display screen in an example embodiment can also include a sponsorship component. The sponsorship component can be a text block graphical element logo or the like representing a sponsoring brand. The sponsorship component is added to the captured image as a promotional element. The particular sponsor can be selected based on the contextual data an advertising campaign or other sponsor selection criteria. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a plurality of sponsorship components can be selected and presented on the main display screen. In one embodiment there may be multiple optional sponsors brands products advertisers etc . . . presented in a list from which the user may choose a particular sponsor to be represented in the sponsorship component.

As shown in regarding main screen a user sees a live preview of what their picture or video will look like with the overlay and background. Regarding Overlay a graphical element is laid over the video feed. The graphical element can be static or animated. Regarding Live Preview a live feed from the attached capture device will be shown on the screen. Regarding Sponsorship additional graphical elements can be added for promotional purposes. Regarding Countdown the system will count down before the picture is taken. At the end of the countdown the Live Preview will shutter or flash in a way to indicate that the picture is taken likening to a camera s shutter.

Referring again to the main display screen has been displayed in operation as described above. As also described an image capture button is provided as part of the main screen. At operation a countdown sequence is initiated. This countdown is illustrated in the sample screen shot shown in . The countdown sequence provides an opportunity for the kiosk end user to prepare for the moment when the picture is taken at the kiosk . At the end of the countdown sequence the live preview component of the main display screen will momentarily flash or shutter to indicate that a picture has been taken i.e. an image of the kiosk end user has been captured . Additionally an audible shutter sound can be played at the kiosk to imitate the sound of a traditional camera s shutter release mechanism. At operation shown in the countdown sequence has completed and the kiosk end user s image has been captured. Alternatively the kiosk end user can activate the image capture button to take the picture immediately. At operation the kiosk end user s image in combination with the overlay component and the one or more sponsorship components has been captured.

Referring still to at operation the kiosk end user is prompted to select a community site or network to which the captured image as part of the posting data should be posted. The display screen shown to the user in this instance is illustrated in . As illustrated in the captured image is shown in combination with icons corresponding to several selectable community sites e.g. facebook.com twitter.com and an email server . The kiosk end user can select one or more of the community sites for posting the captured image by touching the corresponding icon s .

Once the kiosk end user selects one or more community sites in the manner described above operation prompts the kiosk end user to enter the account information or other access information to enable the posting system to post the captured image as part of the posting data to the selected community site s . In one example the kiosk end user may enter his her username and password corresponding to the particular user s account on the selected community site . As shown in the kiosk end user is prompted to enter the access information. Additionally the kiosk end user can enter a brief message which is appended to the captured image as part of the posting content. If the kiosk end user has selected an email server as the target of the post the kiosk end user is prompted for entry of the target email address. Finally the kiosk end user can be prompted at kiosk for entry of opt in or opt out selections. The display screen shown to the user in this instance is also illustrated in . The opt in or opt out selections enable the kiosk end user to specify 1 whether or not the user wants to be included in various marketing campaigns 2 whether or not the user wants to be linked to the accounts of selected brands 3 whether or not the user authorizes the use of the user s email address for marketing and 4 whether or not the user wants to be included in various loyalty or discount programs. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many other options related to the use of the posting content or the kiosk end user s information can be similarly offered to the kiosk end user.

Once the posting information and opt in or opt out selections are received the posting content can be processed in operation . As part of this post processing the posting content can be modified re scaled image enhanced augmented copy protected or otherwise processed to facilitate the transfer of the posting content to the selected community sites in the manner described above. In operation the captured image on the kiosk monitor can be replaced with a promotional image such as an advertisement or promotional video. An example of such a promotional image is illustrated in . The particular brand promoted in the promotional image can be selected dynamically based on the contextual data associated with the particular kiosk end user selected based on a particular ad campaign or selected based on other criteria. In operation the captured image on the kiosk monitor can also be replaced with a promotional offer such as coupon a prize offering or other incentive or loyalty based option. An example of such a promotional offering is illustrated in . In one embodiment the kiosk end user is given a chance to sign up for a promotional offer by entering some additional information such as an address phone number email address or the like. The entered information enables a promoter or marketer to directly target the user for follow up advertisements. As shown in in regard to Advertisement an image or video will play after a post. In regard to the Promo Offer the user is given a chance to sign up for a promotional offer by entering some additional information such address phone etc . . .

As shown in regarding Select Network the user will select the network or community to which they wish to send or post their picture or video. Regarding Enter Network Post Information the user will enter the required information to post to the network or community along with a brief message. Regarding Opt In a user has the option to opt in to select marketing campaigns often providing their email address and linking their network accounts liking following etc . . . .

Referring still to at operation the kiosk end user is prompted to specify whether or not the user authorizes the publication of the user s posting content to the syndicated sites or otherwise authorizes the publication of the posting content or related user data for public consumption. The kiosk end user s selection in regard to public consumption the opt in or opt out selections the captured image any additional user entered message any related meta data and any related contextual data is retained as part of the posting content package that is queued for transfer to the host server in operation . Once the posting content package is queued using a web based queuing service as described above the kiosk processing for the kiosk end user s session with the kiosk is complete.

In block shown in the host server in combination with the kiosk can gather and process the contextual data and develop a set of ad matching or filtering criteria which can be used by the host server to request relevant ad content from the ad servers . In an alternative embodiment the host server can maintain its own database of ad content which can be used as a source of ad content relevant to the set of ad matching or filtering criteria which in turn is relevant to the contextual data gathered by the host server . As shown in block the system takes whatever contextual data is applicable to the targeted functionality processes the data and returns a result that best targets the requesting functionality.

As shown in block of the host server and or the kiosk can use the contextual data to fetch and serve relevant ad content from the ad servers . Additionally the host server and or the kiosk can use the contextual data to fetch and serve relevant promotional content such as surveys coupons offers contests lead generation co sponsorships and the like. As described above the relevant ad or promotional content can be served to a kiosk end user in the overlay component live preview component or sponsorship component of the kiosk user interface described above. As shown in block of once requested contextual data is processed the targeted functionality will be presented to the end user in various forms including Display Advertising primary or secondary screen Banner Advertising Survey Promotional Offers Coupons Contests Lead Generation and Co Sponsorship Dynamic Overlay.

Thus in the manner described above the content of the 3rd party website can be processed in a variety of ways in block . The processed 3party website content can be returned to the user in block by sending rendering information back to the requesting source. As a result the user can see the requested 3party content after processing by the host proxy server. An example of this processing flow by the host proxy server is provided below 

The example computer system includes a data processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single non transitory medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media magnetic media and other data storage devices.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

