---

title: Information processing system, hand held cellular phone, and information processing method
abstract: An information processing system comprises an information providing medium that stores electronic parts capable of reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner, the information providing medium parts being attached to an entity in order to provide information associated with the entity; a hand held terminal device having an information read function that reads information from the information providing medium electronic parts in an electromagnetic or optical manner and record the information; and an information processing unit for retrieving reading and processing the information recorded in the hand held terminal device; wherein the information providing medium is inconspicuously attached to the entity. In this manner, the information can be recorded into the hand held terminal for later use by a user. In this way, in a case where an information user attempts to obtain information associated with an entity, such as commodity or advertising material, the information can be electronically recorded momentously and processed. 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE045767&OS=RE045767&RS=RE045767
owner: Sony Corporation
number: RE045767
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120821
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 652 150 filed on Aug. 31 2000 the parent application being incorporated in its entirety by reference. continuation of reissue application Ser. No. 12 588 403 filed on Oct. 14 2009 which is a reissue application of application Ser. No. 11 252 722 filed on Oct. 19 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 299 988 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 665 667 filed on Sep. 20 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 458 514 the entirety of which being incorporated herein by reference. The present application claims priority based on Japanese Patent Application No. 11 268927 filed on Sep. 22 1999.

The present invention relates to an information processing system a hand held cellular phone and an information processing method preferably applied to an electronic advertising system a commodity selling system a commodity information providing system a food information providing system a recording medium information providing system a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system or the like.

In detail an information providing medium is attached to an entity article or material such as commodity or advertising material and a hand held terminal device with its information read function is provided so as to be possessed by each of the individual information users. In the case where the information user attempts to obtain information associated with its entity the information can be electrically stored in a hand held terminal device momentously and the information can be read from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit whereby the information associated with its entity can be processed by the information processing unit.

Conventionally it is often that posters such as resort guide employment guide or event guide are presented at station concourse and suspension advertisements of these guides are presented in train. In the case where one attempts to obtain a contact of an advertisement material of interest by seeing these posters or suspension advertisements it is generally often that one learns the information by heart or writes it by paper and pen or pencil. In this case if a large amount of information is provided it takes long to write the information.

In the meantime according to an information processing method of a conventional system in the case where one can look at an advertising material carefully for example in the case where one sees an advertising material of interest at station concourse on the way of commutation it is generally often that one must write the information such as address or contact associated with that advertising material by using pen or pencil and such writing is very cumbersome. In particular an E mail address prepared to provide direct access to companies associated with that advertising material contains 30 to 50 characters or signs thus making it difficult to precisely learn them by heart once. When the written memorandum is lost there is a problem that one must rewrite the same information from its advertising material hereinafter referred to as entity after one has dropped there.

In addition when there occurs a case where so called brand commodities such as handbag bag or shoes is discriminated from counterfeit it is discriminated by its sewing manner or buttons as whether the commodities are genuineness or counterfeit. However a very high skill is required for such discrimination. Therefore if no countermeasure is taken in advanced information processing technology there is a problem that the damages of genuine commodity manufacturers is remarkably high.

The present invention has been made in order to solve such conventional problems. It is an object of the present invention to provide an information processing system a hand held cellular phone and an information processing method for in the case where an information user attempts to obtain information associated with an entity such as commodities or advertising materials making it possible to electrically record the information momentously and then making it possible to process the information.

In order to solve the aforementioned problems there is provided an information processing system comprising an information providing medium capable of reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner the information providing medium being attached to an entity in order to provide information associated with the entity an hand held terminal device with its information read function for reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner from this information providing medium and recording the information therein and an information processing unit for reading the information recorded in the hand held terminal device and processing the information.

An information processing system according to the present invention is characterized in that an information capable of reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner is attached to an entity such as commodities or advertising materials by the information provider. The information user uses a hand held terminal device with its information read function as required wherein information is read from the information providing medium in an electromagnetic or optical manner and is recorded. Then the information read from the hand held terminal device is processed by an information processing unit to be converted into information of audible type for example.

Therefore in the case where one cannot look at an entity such as commodities or advertising materials carefully for example in the case where one sees an advertisement at station concourse on the way of commutation information such as address or contact associated with its entity can be electronically stored momentously in a hand held terminal device even if the information is not written by pen or pencil. Thus the information associated with the entity read at home from the hand held terminal device to an information processing unit one can look at the information by using the information processing unit or can provide direct access to the company through Internet. The information processing system can be fully applied to an electronic advertising system a commodity selling system a commodity information providing system a food information providing system a recording medium information providing system an exhibition information providing system a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system or the like.

A hand held cellular phone according to the present invention is directed to a cellular phone for reading information from an information providing medium attached to an entity and processing the information the hand held cellular phone comprising a telephone function information read means for reading information associated with the entity from the information providing medium and non volatile storage means for storing the information read from the information read means.

A hand held cellular phone according to the present invention is characterized in that in the case where information is read from an information providing medium attached to an entity and is processed for example the hand held cellular phone is made close to the information providing medium whereby an antenna body is coupled with the information providing medium in an electromagnetic manner. The information associated with the entity from this antenna body is read from the information read means and this information is stored in non volatile storage means.

Therefore the information associated with the entity read from storage means can always be processed by utilizing a telephone function.

An information processing method according to the present invention is characterized in that an information providing medium capable of reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner is the attached to an article or material information providing medium providing information associated with the article or material the information is read in an electromagnetic or optical manner from the information providing medium and then the recorded information is read and processed.

The information processing method according to the present invention is characterized in that in the case where an information user attempts to obtain information associated with the entity the information can be read momentously in an electromagnetic or optical manner. Moreover the information associated with the entity can be utilized any time even if the information is written by pen or pencil.

One embodiment of an information processing system a hand held cellular phone and an information processing method according to the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In this embodiment an information providing medium is attached to an arbitrary entity such as commodity or advertising material a hand held terminal devices is provided so as to be possessed individually by each of the information users. In the case where the information user attempts to obtain information associated with the entity the information can be electronically stored in the hand held terminal device momentously and the information can be read from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit whereby the information associated with the entity can be processed by the information processing unit.

In an information processing system shown in an information providing medium capable of reading information is provided in advance in an electromagnetic or optical manner. For the information providing medium there is used a recording medium for providing the electronic information content a recording medium for providing the magnetic information content or a recording medium for providing the optical information content. The information providing medium is attached to an arbitrary entity such as commodity food recording medium exhibition or advertising material by the information provider.

For example the information provider can mount the information providing medium to each of the commodities displayed at shop or in online commodity exhibition site mount the information providing medium to each of the foods arranged at a food shop mount the information providing medium to each of the recording media displayed at record shop mount the information providing medium to each of the materials exhibited at museum or art gallery or mount the information providing medium to each of the arbitrary advertising materials attached at station concourse in train at cinema on street board or the like. In this manner the information associated with an entity such as commodity food recording medium exhibited material advertising material or the like is provided to a user.

In this example the information providing medium is attached to the top surface or bottom surface of the entity or a specific location in an object. Of course the information providing medium may be attached to a package or storage material of the entity or may be provided as an accessory in the form of card. In order to emphasize the mount location presence of the information providing medium an indication indicative of the presence of the medium is given on the top surface of the entity . In a method for mounting the information providing medium for example in the case where the entity is an advertising material a pocket or the like is provided at its top surface or bottom surface so as to store the information providing medium in the pocket. After the information providing medium has been stored the pocket may be sealed to prevent it from being stolen.

In addition in the case where this system is used to discriminate whether the entity is genuine or counterfeit for example in import or export materials the form in which the information providing medium is embedded in the object. This is because in the case where it is required to discriminate genuineness from counterfeit only an authorized checker or a specific information user can grasp its mount location.

As the contents of records into this information providing medium the information associated with the entity is stored in the form of data. For example in the case where the entity is a commodity such as electric equipment cloth cosmetic luggage bag or shoes there are recorded in the information providing medium the information on commodity features functions specification price which cannot be entered in a conventional tag or the information on contact. In the case where the entity is a food there are recorded in the information providing medium the information on the food price life recipe calorie information on wines suitable to the food the origin or information on contact. Of course the information providing medium may record these items of character information text information or voice and video information.

In the case where the entity is a recording medium such as compact disk CD or digital versatile disc DVD there are recorded in the information providing medium the audio information on introductory portion of the CD associated with the recording medium or voice and video information on the cinema introduction portion of the DVD in order to expand commodity selling. In the case where the entity is an exhibited material such as picture or photograph there are recorded in the information providing medium the information on picture guidance the information on photographic conditions audio information on artist or model or the like. In the case where the entity is an advertising material associated with exhibition there is recorded in the information providing medium the information on date and time place admission traffic contact or the like. In recent years there has been displayed an E mail address for accessing an information provider through Internet as well as telephone number of contact. Of course this E mail address is also recorded in the information providing medium.

The information providing medium has a film shaped substrate for example. At this substrate an IC chip and an antenna body connected to this IC chip are provided so as to store information associated with the entity . The information providing medium may be a monochrome barcode a two dimensional code or a magnetic information sheet without being limited to the IC chip and antenna body. It is sufficient if the information associated with the entity can be stored and these items of information can be provided to an information user.

In this information processing system a hand held cellular terminal device with its electromagnetic or optical information read function is used. Information is read in an electromagnetic or optical manner from at least the information providing medium and is recorded in the form of data. This hand held terminal device is provided so as to be possessed individually by each of the information users.

An electromagnetic hand held terminal device has at least an antenna body and information read means . This terminal device is coupled with an antenna body of the information providing medium in an electromagnetic manner so that information associated with the entity is read from this antenna body by information read means . Non volatile storage means is connected to this information read means so as to store the information read by the information read means .

An hand held terminal device with its optical information as read function has an optical sensor not shown so as to read at least a monochrome bar code or two dimensional code provided at the information providing medium . Non volatile storage means is connected to an optical sensor and the information associated with the entity fetched from the optical sensor is stored.

A magnetic hand held terminal device has a magnetic sensor not shown so as to read at least a magnetic information sheet provided at the information providing medium . Non volatile storage means is connected to the magnetic sensor so as to store the information associated with the entity fetched from the magnetic sensor. The storage means may be incorporated in a hand held terminal device internal type or may be mounted to the hand held terminal device external type . A flash memory such as EEPROM is used for storage medium .

In this example the hand held terminal device is made close to the information providing medium or the hand held terminal device is scanned on the information providing medium whereby information is read from the information providing medium in an electromagnetic or optical manner hereinafter referred to as an electronic memo function . In addition the hand held terminal device may be a hand held cellular phone having its information read function without being limited to its specific terminal device for reading information from the information providing medium .

This hand held terminal device is generally used by being connected to an information processing unit so that the information recorded in the form of data is processed to be converted into information of audible type. The information processing unit is provided so that the genuineness or counterfeit of the information read from the hand held terminal device may be discriminated. In this embodiment in the case where a configuration is adopted such that the hand held terminal device incorporates the information processing unit the information processing unit is embodied by a central processing unit CPU in a narrow sense.

Display means is connected to this information processing unit a liquid crystal display element with about some tens x some hundreds of pixels or a flat display element and the like is used as this display means . Information processed in an audible form is displayed intact on the hand held terminal device so that the content can be seen carefully.

In the case this hand held terminal device is equipped with the aforementioned display function the information processing unit is embodied by a desktop type personal computer hereinafter referred to as a personal computer or hand held notebook type personal computer in a broad sense and the information that cannot be processed by the and held terminal device is processed to be converted into information of audible type. Depending on the industry type to which the information processing system is applied the information processing unit may be an information processing unit with its money registry function provided at shop.

As display means there is used some inches of a cathode ray tube CRT with which the aforementioned personal computer is provided or a liquid crystal panel of a some hundreds x some hundreds of pixels and the information processed in an audible form is displayed intact. In addition the information processing unit extracts an E mail address of the information provider obtained from the information read from the hand held terminal device . Internet is connected to the information provider whereby information processing such as collecting more detailed information from the information provider is performed.

Now an information processing method according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to an example of information processing in the information processing system .

This embodiment assumes that information such as commodity or advertising material associated with the entity is stored in advance in the information providing medium . An information user is assumed to possess a hand held terminal device with its electromagnetic optical or magnetic information read function. In addition there is shown an example when a personal computer provided at home or the like is used for an information processing unit . In the case where the information processing system is applied to a commodity selling system or the like an information processing unit with its money registry function provided at shop is used.

With this being presumed at step A of the flow chart shown in an electromagnetically or optically information readable information providing medium is attached to an arbitrary entity by the information provider. The information providing medium is attached to an arbitrary entity such as commodity food recording medium exhibited material or advertising material by the information provider depending on industry type.

For example information such as commodity features functions specification or price that cannot be entered into a conventional tag or information such as contact is recorded in the information providing medium . This commodity with its information providing medium is displayed intact in a show case at shop or online commodity exhibition site for example.

At a food shop information such as food price life recipe calorie information on wines suitable to the food or the origin or information on contact is recorded in the information providing medium . These foods each having the information providing medium is arranged at a food shop for example. At a CD or DVD shop audio information on the introductory portion of a music associated with the recording medium or voice and video information at the introductory portion of a cinema is recorded in the information providing medium . The recording media each with the information providing medium are displayed at record shop.

At museum or art gallery there are recorded in the information providing medium the information on picture guidance the information on photographic conditions or the audio information on artists or models concerning exhibited materials. This information providing medium is displayed intact near a works such as picture or photograph for example. In addition in the case of advertisement type there is recorded in the information providing medium the information such as date and time place admission traffic or contact described on the surface of an advertising material associated with an event. The advertisement material including this information providing medium is presented at station concourse in train at cinema on street bulletin board or the like.

This is because information on the entity such as these commodities foods recording media exhibited materials advertising material is provided to a user. Depending on industry type the information providing medium is attached on the top surface or bottom surface of the entity or at a specific position in an object. Of course the information providing medium may be attached to the package or storage material of the entity or may be provided as an accessory of the entity . In order to emphasize the mount location presence of the information providing medium an indication indicative of the presence of the medium is given on the top surface of the entity . In a method for mounting the information providing medium for example in the case where the entity is an advertising material a pocket or the like is provided on its top surface or bottom surface so as to store the information providing medium in this pocket. After the information providing medium has been stored the pocket may be sealed to prevent it from being stolen. The information providing medium may be embedded in the entity such as import or export material.

Thereafter at step A by the information user information is read from the information providing medium in an electromagnetic or optical manner and is recorded therein by using a hand held terminal device with its information read function as required by referring to commodities with information providing media displayed in a show case such as shop or online commodity exhibition site foods with information providing media arranged at a food shop recording media with information providing media displayed at record shop exhibited materials with information providing media presented near works such as pictures or photographs advertising materials with information providing media presented at station concourse in train at cinema or on street bulletin board.

At step A information read from the hand held terminal device is processed. For example in the case where the information processing system is applied to a commodity selling system commodity information read from the information providing medium according to a desired commodity is merely transferred to an information processing unit that serves as a fare adjustment site at that shop without bringing the commodity for a cash register so as to calculate a total amount of purchase or the like.

In the case of Internet commodity selling information on cloth color size material is applied free in an online commodity exhibition site. Thus the information user brings the hand held terminal device back home these items of information are transferred to a personal computer at home or the like and the information is processed by the personal computer to be converted into information of audible type. In this manner the information such as commodity features functions specification or price that cannot be entered into a conventional tag can be obtained.

The information providing medium added to a food is obtained together with that food. Thus by using the hand held terminal device at home there is read from the information providing medium to the information processing device or the like the information such as food life recipe calorie information on wines suitable to the food the origin or information on contact. A food can be processed based on the information.

The information associated with recording media read at a shop selling CDs or DVDs is transferred from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit . Then the audio information on the introductory portion of the CD according to a new release or voice or video information on the introductory portion of a cinema of the DVD is produced by the information processing unit . In this manner the information user can easily establish a plan for purchasing recording media.

At museum or art gallery one can listen immediately to picture guidance information associated with its exhibited materials read from the information providing medium to the hand held terminal device information on photographic conditions or voice information on artists or models. Of course one may bring the hand held terminal device back home transfer information to a personal computer at home and process the information to be converted into information of audible type.

Information associated with an event read from an advertising material with an information providing medium presented at station concourse in train at cinema or on street bulletin board is transferred from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit . Then information such as date and time place admission traffic contact is reproduced by the information processing unit .

When it is required to discriminate genuineness from counterfeit the information is read from the information providing medium by an authorized checker or specific information user and the genuineness or counterfeit of the entity is discriminated.

In this manner there is provided an information processing system embodied according to the present invention wherein the information providing medium capable of reading information in an electromagnetic or optical manner is attached by the information provider to an arbitrary entity such as commodity or advertising material. The information user uses a hand held terminal with its information read function as required wherein information is read from the information providing medium in an electromagnetic or optical manner and is recorded. Thereafter the information read from the hand held terminal device is processed by the information processing unit to be converted into information of audible type for example.

Therefore in the case where one cannot look at an entity such as commodity or advertising material carefully for example in the case where one sees such entity at station concourse on the way of commutation one can store information such as address or contact associated with the entity momentously in the hand held terminal device without writing the information by pen or pencil. Thus one can read the information associated with the entity from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit see the information associated with entity by using the information processing unit and provide a direct access to the company through Internet. The information processing system can be fully applied to an electronic advertising system a commodity selling system a commodity information providing system a food information providing system a recording medium information providing system an exhibition information providing system a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system or the like.

In the electronic advertising system shown in the information providing electronic parts are attached in advance as an information providing medium capable of reading information in an electromagnetic manner. A description of the information providing electronic parts will be given with reference to by way of example. The information providing electronic parts are attached to an arbitrary advertising material presented by an information provider for example at station concourse in train at cinema on street bulletin board or the like.

In this example the information providing parts are attached so as to be stored in a pocket provided at the left diagonal lower part of the top surface of the advertising material . After the information electronic parts have been stored the pocket is sealed to prevent it from being stolen. In order to emphasize its mount location an outstanding red colored frame is given so as to surround the periphery of the mount place.

As the contents of records into the information providing electronic parts for example in the case of an advertisement of a newly opened amusement park provided with a new roller coaster a photograph of the entire roller coaster is presented on the top surface of the advertising material . At the lower part of the material the start date and time place admission traffic contact or the like is described and the advertising information D identical to the above content is recorded in the information providing electronic parts . Of course an E mail address as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts for an information user who attempts to obtain more detailed advertising information D concerning such new roller coaster.

In this electronic advertising system a hand held information reading display is used as a hand held terminal device . This information reading display is what is called card size of about 80 mm to 100 mm in horizontal length L shown in about 50 mm to 60 mm in vertical length W and about 5 mm to 10 mm in thickness for example. In this example the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner the advertising information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner so as to be recorded in the form of data.

This information reading display is provided to be possessed individually by each of the information users. In a method for handing the above information reading display the information reading display is made close to the information providing electronic parts and these display and parts are superimposed with each other whereby the advertising information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner. In this information reading display a flash memory such as EEPROM is incorporated or is externally provided as non volatile storage means and the advertising information D arbitrarily read from the information providing electronic parts is recorded in the memory.

In this example the advertising information D read from the information providing electronic parts is processed by the information reading display to be converted into information of audible type. The information is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element of the information display so that the content can be seen immediately. In addition a universal serial bus hereinafter referred to as USB terminal is provided at the information reading display so as to enable collection to a personal computer by using a USB terminal or a communication cable according to the RS23C communication protocols. The information that cannot be processed by the information reading display is provided for communication processing. Of course the information processed into audible type may be displayed by a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. In addition an E mail address of the information provider is extracted from the information and connection to the information provider is made via Internet by using the personal computer . In this manner more detailed information associated with the roller coaster for example maximum angle of inclination maximum height maximum speed predetermined time or the like can be obtained from the information provider.

Now a description of information providing electronic parts will be given by way of example. The information providing electronic parts shown in is provided with a film shaped substrate having its somewhat larger area relevant to the horizontal length L and longitudinal length W of the information reading display for example. Of course the shape of the information providing electronic parts may be circular or elliptical without being limited to a rectangular shape. The substrate is composed of a resin sheet or the like. The size or material of the substrate is not limited to such resin sheet either. An IC chip is provided at this substrate so as to provide the advertising information D associated with the advertising material . This advertising information D includes start date and time place admission traffic contact or the like associated with an amusement part provided with a new roller coaster as shown in the foregoing example.

A loop shaped antenna body is provided at this substrate and is electrically connected to the IC chip . The antenna body is formed by winding a copper wire or copper foil pattern of about 0.5 mm in thickness by three turns for example. A capacitor C as well as antenna body is connected to the IC chip . This capacitor consists of a storage electrode dielectric and an opposite electrode. The memory capacity of the IC chip is about 1.2 Kbytes to 4.0 Kbytes.

Now an internal configuration of the IC chip will be described by way of example. The IC chip shown in has a modulation demodulation circuit a signal processing circuit and a non volatile memory .

In this example advertising information D is Manchester encoded. In the IC chip the advertising information D obtained in a data row of its predetermined data format is received from an information reading display through an antenna body . A modulation demodulation circuit is connected to the antenna body . During information writing a modulation wave 13.56 MHz of an amplitude shift ASK Amplitude Shift Keying received by this antenna body is demodulated by means of a demodulation function of the modulation demodulation circuit . The ASK modulation wave is obtained by modulating an amplitude of a carrier signal to be amplitude shifted by digital advertising information D. The data transmission speed is 250 k bps 211.875 k bps. The bandwidth is 300 kHz.

In the modulation demodulation circuit for example a data row according to the advertising information D is demodulated the data row being sent from the information reading display to the information providing electronic parts . Then the demodulated data row is transmitted from the modulation demodulation circuit to the signal processing circuit . In response to this transmission the demodulated data row is decoded in the signal processing circuit and the advertising information D is written into a non volatile memory based on the decoding result. In this manner the information provider can write advertising information D associated with the advertising material as a data row in this memory .

In addition during information reading the advertising information D read from the non volatile memory is ASK modulated by means of the modulation function of the modulation demodulation circuit The data transmission speed is 250 k bps 211.875 k bps. The bandwidth is 300 kHz and a modulation signal is Manchester encoded. In this manner the advertising information D can be transmitted as a data row of its data format to the information reading display through the antenna body .

The power supplies of the information providing electronic parts are used by converting the electromagnetic field energy radiated from the information reading display into an electronic signal. In this example a power generating section is provided so as to convert the electromagnetic field energy into a stable DC power supply.

For example the electromagnetic field received by the antenna body is converted into an inductive electromotive force based on a law of electromagnetic induction. By rectifying this electromotive force a DC power is obtained and this DC power voltage is supplied to the modulation demodulation circuit signal processing circuit and non volatile memory . In an example showing a carrier frequency of about 13.56 MHz by three turns a voltage of 2.2 V and a power supply of about 1 mA can be obtained. Of course the power caused by the external high frequency electromagnetic energy may be taken in the antenna body or other object.

Now an internal configuration of an information reading display and its functions will be described by way of example. A loop shaped antenna body is provided at the information reading display shown in so as to enable communication with the information providing electronic parts . The antenna body of the information providing parts and an antenna body of the information reading display are coupled with each other as shown in in an electromagnetic manner and are used in an electrically non contact state.

A modulation demodulation circuit is connected to this antenna body and the modulation wave sent from the information providing electronic parts is demodulated by using its demodulation function. For example a data row of the advertising information D associated with the advertising material is demodulated the data row being sent from the information providing electronic parts to the information reading display . The data row is configured based on a predetermined data format. For example one packet of the data row of the advertising information D is composed of a header data shown in .

A signal processor unit hereinafter referred to as an SPU is connected to this modulation demodulation circuit . The SPU comprises a central processing unit CPU for executing a variety of computation processing not shown a ROM storing a control program and a general purpose RAM used as a work memory. In the SPU a variety of information processing according to demodulated information is performed based on the control program read from the ROM. A flash memory that is shown as an example of non volatile storage means is connected to the SPU and the advertising information D read from the information providing electronic parts is recorded.

In addition with respect to a function used exclusively by the information provider during writing information shown in a variety of information received from the SPU is modulated by the modulation demodulation circuit and then a data row of the advertising information D caused by the modulation electric wave is transmitted to the information providing electronic parts through the antenna body . At this time in order to efficiently discharge the data row as an electromagnetic field the data row is ASK modulated by using a carrier wave of 13.56 MHz in frequency. Then the modulated electric wave is transmitted as an electromagnetic field about 500 micro V m toward the information providing electric parts by means of the antenna body .

A power supply control section is connected to the modulation demodulation circuit SPU input tool and liquid crystal display and a DC power is supplied. A dry battery or charge type battery is used for power supply. In particular a carrier wave of 13.56 MHz in frequency is supplied from the power supply control section to the modulation demodulation circuit . An information writing function is adopted to disable information writing into the information providing electronic parts in the information reading display possessed by the information user. In this case the modulation function of the modulation demodulation circuit is eliminated or a specific modulation method is adopted thereby preventing the advertising information D from being raised by the information user.

In addition the input tool such as keyboard is connected to the SPU so that an operator can operate an instruction when the instruction is supplied to the SPU . In addition a liquid crystal display consisting of about some tens x some hundreds of pixels is connected so that information read from the information providing electronic parts or information to be written therefrom to information providing electronic parts is displayed intact on the liquid crystal display and is checked. A USB terminal for external device is connected to this SPU so as to make connection to a high order computer or the like.

Then an information processing method according to the first embodiment will be described with reference to an example of processing in an electronic advertising system . is an imaginary view showing an example of processing according to the information processing method provided as the first embodiment.

In this example it is presumed that the advertising information D on poster concerning a concert of a prominent talented artist is stored in advance in information providing electronic parts . In addition let us show an example when an information reading display is used by connecting the display to a personal computer at home. With this being presumed information providing electronic parts capable of reading information in an electromagnetic manner is attached to an arbitrary poster on the information provider shown in and . For example card shaped information providing electronic parts are attached on a surface of the poster . An information provider presents this poster having the information providing electronic parts attached thereon at station concourse in train at cinema or on street bulletin board and the like.

Then when an information user sees such advertisement at station concourse in train at cinema or on street bulletin board or the like the advertising information D is read from the information providing element parts in electromagnetic manner and is read by using an hand held information reading display as required. At this time the information reading display and the information providing parts are superimposed with each other and are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner. For example the information reading display and the personal computer are connected to each other using a USB terminal and communications cable at home for example and the advertising information D is read from this information reading display . The advertising information D is processed by a personal computer and is converted into information of audible type.

Therefore in the case where one cannot look at the poster carefully even if one does not write advertising information D such as event or contact associated with that poster which one looked in train on the way of commutation the advertising information D can be stored in the information reading display momentously. One can read the advertising information D from the information reading display to the personal computer at home can see the advertising information D associated with the poster on the display of the personal computer or can reserve or purchase an admission ticket directly to the event company of that concert through Internet.

According to the information providing electronic parts of the present invention advertising information D associated with an advertising material can be read freely and as many times as one likes by an electromagnetic information reading display . Thus the advertising information D can be transmitted publicly as if a large amount of handbills were distributed. Moreover there is no need to prepare handbills in advance these handbills are not disposed at street illegally thus leading to street beatification.

This commodity selling system is a system that applies to a plurality of commodity i i 1 to n concerning an entity and provides a commodity purchaser information user with the contents of electronic information associated with each commodity i. In this example every time each commodity purchaser possesses an information reading display and purchases any of a plurality of commodities i displayed at a site the information reading display is applied to a commodity i or the like to be purchased price information D or the like is read and stored from that commodity i. When one has purchased everything that one wants fare adjustment is performed at a specific site and then the purchased commodity i can be received in batch at a package reception site.

In this commodity selling system information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to all commodities . . i displayed at shop shown in and price information D or the like associated with that commodity i is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner so that the price information D recorded in a data format is fare adjusted by a personal computer with its money register function of a fare adjustment site register . Information providing electronic parts is described with reference to .

The information providing electronic parts are attached so as to be stored to a pocket provided at price tag of commodity i for example by an information provider. After the information providing electronic parts have been stored the pocket is sealed to prevent it from changed secretly and stolen. In order to emphasize the mount location a red frame by an outstanding color is given so as to surround the periphery of the mount site. Of course in the case where the information providing electronic parts are attached to commodity i itself a commodity information providing system described in the next embodiment can be constructed.

The contents of records into the information providing electronic parts in this system include the name and price of the commodity i or the like. In addition manufacturer year and date of manufacture telephone number of contact concerning this commodity or the like are recorded. Of course for an information user who wants to acquire more detailed information concerning the commodity i an E mail address of the information provider as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing parts .

In this commodity selling system as well the hand held information reading display described in the first embodiment is used as a hand held terminal device with its information read function. A description of this configuration has been given in the first embodiment and thus its description is omitted. In this example as well the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner and price information D or the like is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner and is processed in a data format.

This information reading display is provided so that a commodity purchaser information user possesses it individually. In a method for handling the information reading display the information reading display is made close to the information providing electronic parts whereby information is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner. The approaching distance is about 10 cm in ticket examination type and about 2 cm in ticket selling machine type depending on the performance of information reading display . In the case of extra small type the electronic parts are made in close contact with each other. When the frequency during communication is higher than 13.56 MHz the distance can be about 50 cm to 70 cm.

This information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory as described in the first embodiment and the price information D of commodity i arbitrary read from the information providing electronic parts or the like is recorded. The price information D is not erased from a memory even if a power supply is turned OFF.

In this example the USB terminal described in the first embodiment is provided at the information reading display and thus this USB terminal or a communications cable according to the RS23C communication protocols is used to enable communication with the personal computer . Information processing that cannot be processed by the information reading display can be performed by the personal computer .

Instead of wired communication using this communications cable local radio communication using red infrared rays may be performed. In this case a red infrared ray transmitting and receiving section is provided at the information reading display and the personal computer with its money register function. By way of this red infrared ray communication price information D or the like is transferred from the information reading display to the personal computer momentously. Of course a CRT with which the personal computer is provided is adopted to display purchase information after purchased commodity i has been summed in order for a seller to check the sold item.

Then a description will be given to an example of processing in the commodity selling system . In this example it is presumed that information providing electronic parts are attached to price tags of all commodity i displayed in advance at shop price information D or the like associated with the commodity i is electomagnetically read from the information providing electronic parts by using a hand held information reading display and price information D recorded in the data format is fare adjusted by a personal computer with its money register function at a fare adjustment site register . Of course each commodity purchaser possesses an information reading display .

With this being presumed at step B of the flow chart shown in a commodity purchaser determined whether or not he or she purchases it at a site at which a plurality of commodity i are displayed. When the purchaser purchases something processing goes to step B at which the information reading display is made close to the price tag of a desired commodity every time he or she purchases something. At this time the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

After processing has gone to the step B price information D is read from the information providing electronic parts of that commodity and is stored in the information reading display . Then processing goes to step B at which it is determined as to whether or not everything has been purchased. This determination is made by the commodity purchaser. In the case where everything is not purchased processing reverts to step B at which the information reading display is made close to the price tag of desired commodity i so as to repeat processing in the same way as above.

In the case where everything is purchased fare adjustment is performed at a specific fare adjustment site. Fare adjustment may be an automatic bank transfer system by way of online system or may be a cash payment system. In the case of an online system the personal computer is connected to a personal computer at bank via communications means such as telephone line and settlement is made after the account balance of the commodity purchaser has been correlated. Then the purchased commodity i is moved to step B so as to be received in batch at a predetermined package reception site.

Thus according to the commodity selling system of the second embodiment there is solved a problem that packages are increased at shopping cart every purchase until the purchaser has reached a fare adjustment site as in a conventional system. The commodity purchaser may wait at registry while the purchaser holds one information reading display .

Moreover the name and price information D according to a purchased commodity i is recorded in the information reading display . Thus the purchaser reads the price information D or the like from the information reading display to his or her personal computer or the like at home and can record the data concerning the purchased commodity in a balance sheet automatically on the display of the personal computer . When this commodity i is found to be faulty information can be directly processed from additional information of the commodity i so as to make a phone call to a manufacturer about handling or request for replacement of the commodity i as described in the next embodiment.

In this example information providing electronic parts are attached to commodity i at shop or sales sample in online shopping Internet shopping with respect of an entity and additional information is recorded in the information providing electronic parts . The additional information is directed to information such as the features functions or specification of commodity i other than the name and price information of the commodity i which cannot be included in a conventional paper tag. Therefore if commodity i is found to be faulty one can inquire a manufacture directly from additional information of the commodity i and can know how to handle it or ask for replacement of such faulty commodity i.

In particular a sample exhibition site at which sales samples in Internet shopping are gathered is provided. In this system with respect to color size or the like of commodity i which is hardly recognized from net sales information downloaded into a personal computer via a provider an information user visually checks them at the sample exhibition site reads additional information on his or her own information reading display from the information providing electronic parts attached to the commodity i making it possible to purchase what he or she really wants and to enjoy convenience such as online ordering or settlement.

In the case where a purchaser wants to purchase commodity i he or she may purchase it but may determine such purchase in comparison with other commodities. In this case the purchaser reads the additional information in the information reading display at shop or sample exhibition site transfers the additional information to the personal computer at home or in office and performs display processing or the like thereby making it possible to determine whether or not to purchase that commodity i.

In the commodity information providing system shown in for example the information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to all commodity i such as business suits handbags wristwatch or the like displayed at a sample exhibition site for sales samples in Internet shopping. By using a hand held information reading display information associated with that commodity i is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner additional information D recorded in a data format is processed by a personal computer at home or in office and is converted into information of audible type. The information providing electronic parts have been described with reference to . The information providing electronic parts are attached to a price tag or the like of commodity i by the information provider.

The contents of records into the information providing electronic parts in this system include the name price manufacturer date of manufacture features functions specification or telephone number of contact concerning the commodity i. Of course for an information user so who wants to acquire more detailed information concerning this commodity i an E mail address of the information provider as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts .

In this commodity information providing system as well the hand held information reading display described in the first embodiment is used as a hand held terminal device with its information read function. The contents of this configuration has been described in the first embodiment and thus a duplicate description is omitted here. In this example as well the information reading display and information electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner. Additional information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner and is converted to be recorded in a data format.

This information reading display is provided so that a commodity purchaser information user possesses it individually. In a method for mounting the information reading display as described in the first and second embodiments the information reading display is made close to information providing electronic parts whereby additional information D is read from the information providing electronic parts .

This information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory as described in the first embodiment. In this memory there is recorded additional information D or the like of commodity i arbitrary read from the information providing electronic parts . The additional information D is not erased from the memory even if a power supply is turned OFF. In this example additional information D is processed by the information reading display and is converted into information of audible type. The information obtained by processing by this additional information D is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element or the like of the information reading display and the content can be seen immediately on the spot.

In addition the information reading display is connected to the personal computer using the provided USB terminal or communications cable according to RS23C communications protocols. Additional information D that cannot be processed by the information reading display is provided for communication processing. Of course the information processed into audible type may be displayed on a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. In addition an E mail address of the information provider is extracted from additional information D connection to the information provider is made via Internet using the personal computer so that more detailed information is obtained and processing goes to accounting processing of the commodity i

Now an example of processing in the commodity information providing system will be described here. In this example it is presumed that information providing electronic samples are attached in advance to price tags of all of the commodity i displayed at a sample exhibition site in Internet shopping additional information D or the like associated with that commodity i is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using a hand held information reading display additional information D recorded in the data format processed by a personal computer at home or in office. Of course it is presumed that each commodity purchaser possesses the information reading display .

With this being presumed at step C of the flow chart shown in a commodity purchaser determines whether or not there is desired information concerning sample commodity i at an exhibition site at which a plurality of sample commodities i are displayed. This determination is made by the commodity purchaser. In the case where there is desired information concerning sample commodity i processing goes to step C at which the information reading display is made close to that price tag or the like every sample commodity i corresponding to such desired information. At this time the information reading display and information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

Then processing goes to step C at which additional information D is read from information providing electronic parts of that commodity i and is stored in that information reading display . Then processing goes to step C at which it is determined as to whether or not all the desired information concerning sample commodity i is read. This determination is made by the commodity purchaser. In the case where all the desired information concerning sample commodity i is not read processing reverts to step C at which the information reading display is made close to the price tag of sample commodity i corresponding to such desired information so that the processing is repeated in the same manner as the above.

In the case where all the desired information concerning sample commodity i is read processing goes to step C at which additional information D is processed by using the information reading display and information of audible type is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element or the like so that the content can be seen immediately on the spot.

Then processing goes to step C at which the USB terminal of the information reading display is connected to the personal computer by using a communication cable the content of information processed by the information reading display or additional information D that could not be processed there are transferred to the personal computer . At the personal computer information processed in audible type for example the characteristics functions or specification of wrist watch that is sample commodity i is displayed on a CRT with which the personal computer is provided. In addition an E mail address of an information provider is extracted from additional information D so that more detailed information is obtained from the information provider via Internet or processing goes to accounting processing of that commodity i.

In this manner according to the commodity information providing system of the third embodiment in the case where there is provided a sample exhibition site at which sales samples are gathered in Internet shopping with respect to the color size or the like of commodity i that is hardly recognized from net sales information downloaded into the personal computer via a provider an information user checks them at this sample exhibition site reads additional information D from the information providing electronic parts attached to that commodity i to the information reading device thereby making it possible to purchase what he or she really wants. In addition the purchaser can enjoy convenience such as online ordering or settlement.

Moreover when commodity i is found to be faulty the purchaser direct inquires that manufacturer from additional information D of that commodity i by combining the second embodiment so that the purchaser can know the handling of the commodity and ask for replacement of the commodity i or the like.

In this example information providing electronic parts are attached to foods with respect to an entity . Food information D is recorded in the information providing electronic parts at a food shop. The food information D used here includes information such as name price life of the food recipe information on wines suitable to the food calorie or origin or any other information that cannot be included in a conventional paper tag. Therefore a food purchaser purchases the food with information providing electronic parts whereby the purchaser can obtain information such as life. recipe information on wines suitable to the food calorie origin with respect of the food and can perform menu management of that food .

In the food information providing system shown in for example the information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to all foods displayed at a food shop. The information providing electronic parts are attached to containers or housings for packing without being direct attached to the foods .

The contents of records into the information providing electronic parts in this system include information on the name price manufacturer date of manufacture life recipe information on wines suitable to the food calorie origin or telephone number of contact concerning the foods .

Of course for an information user who wants to obtain more detailed information concerning these foods an E mail address of an information provider as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts . The information providing electronic parts has been described with reference to . These information providing electronic parts are attached to price tags of the foods at a food shop by the information provider .

In this food information providing system as well there is used the hand held information reading display described in the first embodiment. For example the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner and food information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner so as to be recorded in the data format.

This information reading display is provided so that an information user possesses it individually. In a method for handling the information reading display as described in the first to third embodiments the information reading display is made close to the information providing electronic parts whereby food information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner.

This information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory as described in the first embodiment. In this memory there is recorded food information D or the like on the foods arbitrarily read from the information providing electronic parts . The food information D is not erased from the memory even if a power supply is turned OFF. In this example food information D processed into audible type by the information reading display is displayed intact by a liquid crystal display element of the information reading display so that the contents can be seen immediately on the spot.

In addition a USB terminal provided at the information reading display is connected to a personal computer at home by using a communications cable. Food information D of the information reading display is transferred and a video according to a detailed cooking method is displayed on a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. Together with this video voice guidance is output from a provided speaker. A video such as information on wines suitable to this cuisine is displayed.

Now an example of processing in the food information providing system will be described here. In this example it is presumed that information providing electronic parts are attached to price tags of all foods displayed in advance on a food shop when that food is purchased and is brought back home food information. D or the like associated with that food is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner and the food information D recorded in a data format is processed by a personal computer at home. Let us show an example when a cooking method is referred to from the food information D. Of course it is presumed that each food purchaser information user possesses the information reading display .

With this being presumed at step E of the flow chart shown in a food purchaser determined whether or not there is a desired food at a food shop at which a plurality of foods are displayed. This determination is made by the food purchaser. In the case where a desired food is present the purchaser purchases a food with its information providing electronic parts and brings it back home.

At home during preparation for cook at step E the information reading display is made close to the price tag or the like of the food . At this time the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner. Then processing goes to step E at which food information D is read from the information providing electronic parts of the food and is stored in the information reading display . Then processing goes to step E at which an information user determines whether or not the food information D is read. In the case where all the food information D is not read processing reverts to step E at which information read processing is repeated.

In the case where all the food information D is read processing goes to step E at which the food information D is read from a flash memory of the information reading display and is processed into audible type. This food information D is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element or the like so that the content can be seen immediately on the spot.

Then processing goes to step E at which the USB terminal of the information reading device is connected to the personal computer by using a communications cable and the content of information processed by the information reading display or the food information D that cannot be processed there are transferred to the personal computer or the like. At the personal computer the information processed into audible type for example the cooking method of the food is displayed on a provided CRT. In addition an E mail address of the information provider is extracted from the food information D so that information concerning a more detailed cooking method is obtained from the information provider via Internet.

In this manner according to the food information providing system of the fourth embodiment the information providing electronic parts are attached to foods and food information D is recorded in the information providing parts at a food shop. Therefore with respect to the food there can be obtained information such as life recipe information on wines suitable to the cuisine calorie origin or the like. The management of life or menu of the food can be performed based on the food information D.

The life may be linked with a computer of a refrigerator not shown . In this case red infrared ray transmitting and receiving sections are provided at both of the information reading display and the refrigerator computer. By way of this red infrared ray communication information on life or the like is transferred from the information reading display to that computer momentously. This information concerning life is added to the inventory management information so that the user s diet is managed by that computer.

Moreover when the food is found to be faulty a purchaser inquires a manufacturer directly from the food information D of that food so that the purchaser can know the countermeasure or ask for replacement of the food .

In this example information providing electronic parts are attached to recording media such as CD or DVD with respect to an entity . The information providing electronic parts record experience information. The experience information is directed to name and price of a recording medium audio information on an introductory portion of a music according to that recording medium or voice and video information on the introductory portion of a cinema. In this system a purchaser can read experience information from the information providing electronic parts attached to the recording media by means of the information reading display brought into a record shop checks this experience information thereby making it possible to purchase what he or she really wants to. In addition the purchaser can enjoy convenience such as online ordering or settlement.

In the case where a media purchaser wants to purchase a recording medium he or she may purchase it but may determine such purchase by comparing it with another medium. In this case the purchaser can read experience information in the information reading display at a record shop bring it back home or office transfer the experience information to a personal computer or the like and determine whether or not to purchase the recording medium .

In the recording medium information providing system shown in for example the information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to all recording media such as CD CD ROM DVD . . . displayed at a record medium . Experience information D associated with the recording media is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using the hand held information reading display . Then the experience information D recorded in a data format is processed by a personal computer at home or in office and is converted into information of audible type.

The information providing electronic parts have been described with reference to . In the information providing electronic parts for example a CD or DVD information provider records audio information of an introductory portion of a music according to the recording medium or voice and video information of an introductory portion of a cinema. The recording media with the information providing parts are displayed at a record shop in order to provide the information associated with these recording media to the information user.

The information providing electronic parts are attached to price tags or the like of the recording media by the information provider. Of course the information providing electronic parts may be attached to packages or housings and the like of the recording media or may be provided as an additional material of the recording media in a card format. In order to emphasize the mount location presence of the information providing electronic parts an indication indicative of its presence is given on the surface of the recording media .

The contents of records into information providing electronic parts in this system include information associated with the name price producer of the recording media or telephone number of contact concerning the recording media for example as well as the aforementioned contents. Of course for an information user who wants to obtain more detailed information concerning the recording media an E mail address of the information provider as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts .

In this recording medium information providing system as well the hand held information reading display described in the first embodiment is used as a hand held terminal device with its information read function. The contents of this configuration has been described in the first embodiment and a duplicate description thereof is omitted. In this example the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner. Then experience information D is read from the information providing electronic parts and is converted to be recorded in a data format.

This information reading display is provided so that a medium purchaser information user possesses it individually. In a method for handling the information reading display as described in the first to fourth embodiments the information reading display is made close to information providing parts whereby experience information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner.

This information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory as described in the first embodiment and the experience information D or the like of the recording media arbitrarily read from the information providing electronic parts is recorded. This experience information D is not erased from a memory even if a power supply is turned OFF. In this example the experience information D is processed by means of the information reading display and is converted into information of audible type. The information obtained by processing the experience information D is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element of the information reading display or the like so that the contents can be seen immediately on the spot.

In addition in this example as well the USB terminal of the information reading display and the personal computer are connected to each other using a communications cable. The experience information D that cannot be processed on the information reading display is provided for communication processing. Of course the information processed in audible type may be displayed on a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. In addition an E mail address of the information provider is extracted from the experience information D and connection to the information provider is made by using the personal computer via Internet so that more detailed information is obtained.

Now an example of processing in the recording medium information providing system will be described. In this example it is presumed that the information providing electronic parts are attached to price tags of all recording media displayed in advance at a record shop experience information D or the like associated with the recording media is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using the hand held information reading display the experience information D recorded in a data format is processed by means of the personal computer at home or in office. Of course it is presumed that each media purchaser possesses the information reading display .

With this being presumed at step F of the flow chart shown in a medium purchaser determines whether or not desired information concerning recording media is present at a record shop. This determination is made by the media purchaser. In the case where desired information concerning recording media is present processing goes to step F at which the information reading display is made close to the price tag or the like by each recording medium corresponding to desired information. At this time the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

Then processing goes to step F at which experience information D is read from the information providing electronic parts of the recording media and is recorded in the information reading display . Then processing goes to step F at which it is determined as to whether or not all the desired information concerning the recording media are read. This determination is made by the media purchaser. In the case where all the desired information concerning the recording media is not read processing reverts to step F at which the information reading display is made close to the price tag of the recording medium corresponding to desired information and processing is repeated in the same manner as above.

In the case where all the desired information concerning recording media is read processing goes to step F at which experience information D is processed by using the information reading display and information of audible type is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display element or the like so that the contents can be seen immediately on the spot.

Then processing goes to step F at which the USB terminal of the information reading display and the personal computer are connected to each other using a communications cable and the contents of information processed by the information reading display or experience information D that cannot be processed there is transferred to the personal computer . At the personal computer the information processed in audible type for example a video of an introductory portion of a new release cinema according to the DVD is displayed on a provided CRT and an E mail address of an information provider is extracted from experience information D so that more detailed information is obtained from the information provider via Internet.

In this manner according to the recording medium information providing system of a fifth embodiment experience information D is read from the information providing electronic parts attached to recording media into the information reading display brought at a record shop and a purchaser checks the experience information D so that the purchase can purchase what he or she really wants.

Moreover when a recording medium is found to be faulty a purchaser inquires a manufacturer directly from experience information D of the recording medium by combining the second embodiment so that the purchaser can know a method of handling the medium or ask for replacement of the recording medium .

The recording media may be VTR book or magazine without being limited to CD or DVD. The information providing electronic parts are attached to these VTRs books or magazines and the like a video of an introductory portion of dynamic VTR information is shown and the table of contents or an introductory portion of a story are read by text in the case of a book or magazine.

In this example it is presumed that information providing electronic parts are attached to exhibited materials concerning an entity in museum or in art gallery and exhibition information is recorded in the information providing electronic parts . The exhibition information contains the name of the exhibited material picture guidance information associated with the exhibited material information on photographic conditions and voice information on artists or models. In this system exhibition information is read from the information providing electronic parts attached to the exhibited materials by means of the information reading display brought into museum or art gallery so that the exhibition information is checked by the information reading display . In the case where an information user has different interest with the exhibited material while the exhibition information is read in the information reading display the purchaser brings the display back home or office transfers the exhibition information to a personal computer or the like so as to perform display processing or the like.

In an exhibition information providing system shown in the information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to all exhibited materials such as pictures photographs . . . displayed in museum or in art gallery. Then exhibition information D associated with the exhibited materials is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using a hand held information reading display . Thereafter the exhibition information D recorded in a data format is processed on the spot or by means of the personal computer at home or in office and is converted to information of audible type.

The information providing electronic parts have been described with reference to . In the information providing electronic parts for example there are recorded the name of the exhibited material picture guidance information associated with the exhibited material information on photographic conditions voice information on artists or models or the like. The exhibited materials with the information providing electronic parts are displayed in museum or in art gallery in order to provide information associated with these exhibited materials to a user.

The information providing electronic parts are attached to title bulletin boards or the like near the exhibited materials such as pictures or photographs for example by an information provider. Of course the information providing electronic parts may be attached to the insides of frames of the exhibited materials or may be stored in a card format as an attached material in the title bulletin board of the exhibited material . In order to emphasize the mount location presence of the information providing parts an indication indicative of the presence is given on the surface of the title bulletin board .

The contents of records into the information providing electronic parts in this system include for example the price of the exhibited material information associated with artist telephone number of contact concerning the exhibited material or the like. Of course for an information user who wants to obtain more detailed information concerning the exhibited material an E mail address of the information provider as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts .

In this exhibition information providing system as well the hand held information reading display described in the first embodiment is used as a hand held terminal device with its information reading function. The contents of this configuration have been described in the first embodiment and thus a duplicated description thereof is omitted here. In this example as well the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner and exhibition information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner so as to be recorded in a data format.

This information reading display is provided so that an information user possesses it individually. In a method for mounting the information reading display as described in the first to fifth embodiments the information reading display is made close to the information providing electronic parts whereby exhibition information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner.

As described in the first embodiment this information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory that records exhibition information D or the like of the exhibited material arbitrarily read from the information providing electronic parts . The exhibition information D is not erased even if a power supply is turned OFF. In this example the exhibition information D is processed by means of the information reading display and is converted into information of audible type. The information obtained by processing the exhibition information D is displayed intact by a liquid crystal display element or the like of the information reading display so that the contents can be seen or listened to immediately on the spot.

In this example as well the USB terminal of the information reading display and a personal computer at home or in office are connected to each other by using a communications cable. Then the contents of information processed by the information reading display or the exhibition information D that cannot be processed there are provided for communication processing. Of course the information processed into audible type may be displayed on a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. In addition an E mail address of an information provider is extracted from the exhibition information D and connection to the information provider is made via Internet by using the personal computer so that more detailed information is obtained.

Now an example of processing in the exhibition information providing system will be described here. In this example it is presumed that the information providing electronic parts are attached to the title bulletin boards of all the exhibited materials displayed in advance in museum or art gallery exhibition information D or the like associated with the exhibited material is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using a hand held information reading display and the exhibition information D recorded in a data format is processed by the personal computer at home or in office. Of course it is presumed that each information user possesses the information reading display .

With this being presumed at step G of the flow chart shown in an information user determines whether or not desired information concerning an exhibited material is present in museum or in art gallery. This determination is made by the information user. In the case where desired information concerning the exhibited material is present processing goes to step G at which the information reading display is made close to the title bulletin board by each exhibited material corresponding to the desired information. At this time the information reading display and the information providing parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

Then processing goes to step G at which the exhibition information D is read from the title bulletin board of the exhibited material and is stored in the information reading display . Together with this the exhibition information D is processed by using the information reading display . The information of audible type is displayed intact on the liquid crystal display element or the like so that the contents are seen or listened to immediately on the spot. An automatic guiding function in museum or art gallery can be used in this information reading display .

Then processing goes to step G at which it is judged as to whether or not all the desired information concerning the exhibited material is read. This determination is made by an information user. In the case where all the desired information concerning the exhibited material is not read processing reverts to step G at which the information reading display is made close to the title bulletin board of the exhibited material corresponding to the desired information so as to repeat processing in the same manner as the above.

In the case where all the desired information concerning the exhibited material is read processing goes to step G at which it is determined as to whether or not the information reading display and the personal computer or the like are linked with each other at home or in office. This determination is made by an information user.

In the case where this information reading display and the personal computer or the like are linked with each other processing goes to step G at which the USB terminal of the information reading display and the personal computer are connected to each other by using a communications cable and the contents of information processed by the information reading display or the exhibition information D that cannot be processed there is read by the personal computer . At the personal computer the information processed in audible type at step G for example a profile video of an artist of the exhibited material is displayed on the provided CRT. In addition an E mail address of an information provider is extracted from the exhibition information D so that more detailed information is obtained from the information provider via Internet.

In this manner according to the exhibition information providing system of the sixth embodiment the exhibition information D is read from the information providing electronic parts attached to the exhibited material by means of the information reading display brought into museum or art gallery and the exhibition information D can be checked by the personal computer at home.

Moreover in the case where a purchaser wants to purchase the exhibited material the purchaser directly inquires the owner of the copyright from the exhibition information D of the exhibited material by combining the second embodiment so that the information such as purchasing method can be obtained. The exhibited material may be a copyright material such as sword sculpture or ceramic art without being limited to picture or photograph. The information providing electronic parts are attached to the title bulletin board such as these copyright materials and the information associated with the price or artist of the copyright material or telephone number of contact concerning the copyright material or the like is recorded so that these items of information can be easily obtained.

In this exemplified system information providing electronic parts are attached to prominent commodities concerning an entity and item information is recorded in the information providing electronic parts . When the genuineness or counterfeit of the commodity must be discriminated item information is read by the information reading display from the information providing electronic parts attached to the commodity. Then the item information is fetched from the information reading display to a personal computer of an governmental authority so as to discriminate the genuineness or counterfeit of the commodity. The item information includes the name of the commodity manufacturer associated with the commodity manufacturer specific code information manufacturing information quality inspection information or the like.

In the commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system shown in the information providing electronic parts described in the first embodiment are attached to prominent commodities such as bag luggage shoes or the like. When the genuineness or counterfeit of the commodity must be discriminated item information D associated with the prominent commodity is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using an information reading display so that the item information D recorded in a data format can be discriminated by a personal computer such as governmental authority.

The information providing electronic parts have been described with reference to . In the information providing electronic parts there are recorded for example the name and manufacture of the prominent commodity manufacturer manufacturing information quality inspection information origin or the like. The information providing electronic parts are mounted or sewn to hand bag luggage shoes or the like by a commodity manufacturer. In order to prevent illegality the information providing electronic parts may be sewn to the inside of the commodity so as to be easily seen from the outside thereof.

At this time although the information providing electronic parts having item information D recorded therein may be built in genuineness from the beginning the information providing electronic parts having nothing recorded therein are built in genuineness and then item information D may be recorded by using a specific information recording device at the time of shipment.

In addition although the information providing electronic parts are generally created in a rectangular shape these electronic parts may be formed in an optimal shape coincident with an mount region site without being limited thereto. The information providing electronic parts is composed of an IC chip and an antenna body as shown in and this antenna body may be formed in a circular shape an elliptical shape or a gourd shape. The antenna body can be freely deformed. The prominent commodities with the information providing electronic parts are distributed in Japan is exported outside Japan or is imported to Japan.

The contents of records into the information providing electronic parts in this system include for example the aforementioned contents the price of the commodity telephone number of contact concerning the commodity or the like. Of course for an information user who wants to obtain more detailed information concerning the commodity an E mail address of a commodity manufacturer as well as telephone number is recorded in the information providing electronic parts .

In this commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system as well the information reading display described in the first embodiment is used as a hand held terminal device with its information read function. The contents of this configure has been described in the first embodiment and thus a duplicate description thereof is omitted. In this example as well the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an at least electromagnetic manner and item information D is read from the information providing electronic parts to the information reading display in an electromagnetic manner so as to be recorded in a data format.

This information reading display is provided so as to be possessed by associated authorities such as custom. In a method for handing the information reading display as described in the first to sixth embodiments the information reading display is made close to the information providing electronic parts whereby item information D is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner. As described in the first embodiment the information reading display incorporates a non volatile memory and the item information D or the like of the commodity arbitrary read from the information providing electronic parts are recorded. This item information D is not erased from a memory even if a power supply is turned OFF.

In this example the USB terminal of the information reading display and a personal computer are connected to each other by using a communications cable. Then item information D is transferred from the information reading display to the personal computer and this item information D is discriminated in the personal computer . At the personal computer the item information D of genuineness is recorded as an expected value. At the personal computer the item information D from the information reading display and the expected value are compared with each other concerning a problematic commodity.

As the result of comparison in the case where the item information D displayed on the information reading display coincides with an expected value of the personal computer the commodity is provided to be regarded as genuineness. In the case where the item information D displayed by the information reading display does not coincide with the expected value of the personal computer the commodity is provided to be regarded as a counterfeit brand.

In the case where they do not coincide with each other in the case where item information D cannot be read from a problematic commodity information like item information D can be read from the commodity and the contents are completely different. In the case where they coincide with each other processing goes to analysis processing. These results of discrimination are displayed on a CRT with which a personal computer is provided. Item information D is processed into information of audible type by means of the information reading display so that the thus processed information may be displayed intact by the liquid crystal display element or the like of the information reading display . The contents of display can be checked immediately on the spot during export or import check.

Now an example of processing in the commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system will be described here. In this example it is presumed that information providing electronic parts are attached to the prominent commodity item information D or the like associated with the commodity is read from the information providing electronic parts in an electromagnetic manner by using the information read display and the item information D recorded in a data format is discriminated by means of the personal computer . Of course it is presumed that genuineness or counterfeit checker possesses the information reading display .

With this being presumed at step H of the flow chart shown in when an governmental authority obtains information that a commodity imported from a country that is not an origin for example is suspected to be counterfeit it is determined as to whether the commodity is genuine or counterfeit. This determination is made by the associated authority such as custom. In the case where it is determined that the genuineness or counterfeit must be discriminated processing goes to step H at which information reading display is made close to each of all the targeted export commodities hereinafter referred to as a target commodity . At this time if the target commodity is genuineness prominent commodity the information reading display and the information providing electronic parts are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

Then processing goes to step H at which item information D is read from the information providing electronic parts of the prominent commodity and is stored in the information reading display . At this time item information D is discriminated by utilizing a display function of the information reading display and the information of audible type or the like is displayed on a liquid crystal display element or the like so that the contents can be seen immediately on the spot.

Then processing goes to step H at which it is determined as to whether or not all the item information D concerning a target commodity is read. This determination is made by genuineness or counterfeit checker. In the case where all the item information D concerning a target commodity is not read processing goes to step H at which the information reading display of the commodity of item information D is made close to the commodity so that processing is repeated in the same manner as the above.

In the case where all the item information D of these target commodities is read processing goes to step H at which the USB terminal of the information reading display and the personal computer are connected to each other by using a communications cable and the contents of information processed by the information reading display or item information D that cannot be processed there are read on the personal computer . At step H the item information D from the information reading display concerning a target commodity is compared with an expected value by means of the personal computer .

As the result of comparison in the case where the item information D displayed by the information reading display coincides with an expected value of the personal computer the commodity is regarded as genuineness. In the case where the item information D displayed by the information reading display does not coincide with an expected value of the personal computer the commodity is regarded as counterfeit brand. In the case of partial coincidence manufacturer specific encode information may differ and thus processing goes to analysis processing. These discrimination results are displayed on a CRT with which the personal computer is provided.

In this manner according to a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system of the seventh embodiment item information D is read from the information providing electronic parts attached to the prominent commodity to the information reading display so that the item information D can be discriminated by the personal computer at the governmental authority.

Therefore distribution of counterfeit brand can be prevented immediately before such brand is imported. As a result genuineness can be protected and guaranteed. The crackdown of counterfeit can be facilitated by the information providing electronic parts and customer management based on the information providing electronic parts or history management of genuineness can be performed. The information providing electronic parts can be used in the same way as the written warrant of the prominent commodity.

In this example although a hand held information reading display is exemplified a specific stationary counterfeit discriminating device having its information read function and data processing function of the personal computer can be configured. Item information D may contain a serial number shop information or the like without being limited to the name of the commodity encode information manufacturer manufacturing information quality inspection information or the like.

In this information processing system a monochrome bar code is provided as an information providing medium at an arbitrary entity so that information D associated with the entity is provided in an optical manner. Like elements denoted by like reference numbers in the first embodiment have the same functions and thus a description thereof is omitted. In the information processing system shown in a monochrome bar code is provided as an information providing medium capable of reading information in an optical manner. This bar code is provided at an arbitrary entity by the information provider. For example a monochrome bar code is attached to an arbitrary advertising material hereinafter referred to as entity attached to station concourse in train at cinema on street bulletin board or the like.

In this example the bar code is attached to the surface of the entity . Of course in order to emphasize the mount location presence of the bar code that portion may be emphasized. In the case where the entity is provided as a commodity i without being limited to the above pasting method the bar code may be printed in that package or the like simultaneously.

Although the information D associated with the entity is stored as the contents of records into this bar code a small amount of information is provided in comparison with the first to seventh embodiments. For example in the case where the entity is associated with an event such event is given on the surface of the entity . Information D such as contact or E mail address is recorded in the bar code containing date and time site admission traffic contact or the like.

In this information processing system a hand held optical information reading display is used and information is read from at least the bar code in an optical manner and is recorded in a data format. This information reading display is provided so that an information user possesses it individually. In this example the information reading display is scanned on the bar code whereby information D is read from the bar code in an optical manner.

As in the first embodiment a flash memory that is shown as an example of non volatile storage means is provided at this information reading display . In this memory information arbitrary read from the bar code is recorded. A USB terminal is provided at this information reading display the personal computer is connected by using this USB terminal or a communication cable not shown and the information D recorded in a data format is processed in audible type.

This optical information reading display for example has a bar code reading unit that is shown as an example of an optical sensor shown in . A light emitting section is provided at the reading unit and a beam like laser light or the like is emitted. A light receiving section is provided adjacent to this light emitting section . When the laser light is emitted to a monochrome bar code for example the reflection light reflected from that white pattern is received.

A SPU signal processing unit is connected to this light receiving section and an optical detection signal obtained by reading the monochrome bar code is digitally processed. Then information D such as inquiry associated with the entity or E mail address is decoded. The decoding result is stored in a RAM contained in the SPU or in an external flash memory and the like. With respect to this SPU a CPU central processing unit not shown is provided. Then information D is processed in audible type and is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display so that the contents can be seen on the spot.

In this example a read unit scanning and or driving section is provided. While an information reading display is made close to a bar code the reading unit can be scanned on the bar code . Of course in the case where no space for providing the scanning and or driving section is provided because of a compacted information reading display the light emitting section and the light receiving section are allocated and fixed in the information reading display with its predetermined angle. The information reading display is scanned so that the information user traces on the bar code at a constant speed. In this manner information D can be optically read.

A power supply control section. is connected to the reading unit scanning and or driving section SPU input tool and liquid crystal display and a DC power is supplied. A dry battery or charge type battery is used for power supply.

Thus according to the information processing system of the eighth embodiment an optically readable monochrome bar code is attached to an arbitrary entity by the information provider. By the information user a hand held optical information reading display is used as required and information D is read from the bar code in an optical manner and is recorded. Then information D read from the information reading display is processed into audible type by means of the personal computer or the like.

Therefore even in the case where the entity cannot be seen carefully a small amount of information is provided. As in the first embodiment even if information D such as address or contact associated with the entity is not written by pen or pencil the information D can be stored in the information reading display momentously. Thus one reads the information D from the information reading display to the personal computer at home so that one can see the information D associated with the entity or provide direct access to the company through Internet.

In addition according to a monochrome bar code of the present invention as in the first to seventh embodiments information D associated with the entity can be read freely as many times as one likes by means of an optical information reading display . In addition as in the first embodiment the information D can be transmitted publicly as if a large amount of handbills were distributed. Moreover as in the first embodiment there is no need to prepare handbills in advance and these hand bills are not disposed illegally on street which leads to street beatification 

In this example although a case of the monochrome bar code has been described with respect to an information providing medium such bar code may be a two dimensional code to which a monochrome patch is applied in a checkered pattern or toothless shape.

In this example a magnetic tape is provided as an information providing medium at an entity so that information D associated with the entity is magnetically provided. Like elements denoted by like reference numbers in the first embodiment have their same functions and thus a duplicate description thereof is omitted here. At the information processing system shown in there is provided a sheet like magnetic tape magnetic information sheet capable of magnetically reading information. This magnetic tape is provided at an arbitrary entity by the information provider. For example the sheet like magnetic tape is attached to an arbitrary advertising material attached at station concourse in train at cinema on street bulletin board or the like. Of course this magnetic tape may be formed of a resin substrate such as magnetic card.

In this example the magnetic tape is attached to the surface of the entity . Of course in order to emphasize the mount location presence of the magnetic tape an indication to emphasize that portion may be given. As the contents of records into this magnetic tape there is stored information D associated with the entity . For example as in the first embodiment in the case of an advertising material associated with an event the entity is given on the surface of that advertising portion. Information D such as date and time site administration traffic contact or E mail address is recorded in the magnetic tape .

In this information processing system a hand held magnetic information reading display is used and information D is magnetically read from at least the magnetic tape and is recorded in a data format. This information reading display is provided so that an information user possesses it individually. In this example the information reading display is scanned on the magnetic tape whereby information D is read from the magnetic tape .

As in the first embodiment a flash memory that is shown as an example of non volatile storage means is provided at this information reading display and information arbitrary read from the magnetic tape is recorded. A USB terminal is provided at this information reading display . A personal computer is connected by using this USB terminal or a communications cable not shown and the information D recorded in the data format is processed in audible type.

This magnetic information reading display has a magnetic sensor shown in for example. A magnetic head not shown is provided at a magnetic sensor . When the magnetic sensor is scanned on a sheet like magnetic tape information D is reproduced from the magnetic tape . In this example the information reading display is scanned so that an information user traces on the magnetic tape at a constant speed. In this manner information D can be read magnetically.

A SPU signal processing unit is connected to this magnetic sensor a magnetic detection signal obtained by reading the magnetic tape is digitally processed and information D associate with the entity is decoded. The decoding result is stored in a RAM contained in the SPU or an external flash memory . With respect to this SPU a CPU central processing unit not shown is provided and information D is processed into audible type and is displayed intact on a liquid crystal display so that the contents can be seen on the spot. A power supply control unit is connected to the magnetic sensor SPU input tool and liquid crystal display and a DC power is supplied. A dry battery or charge type battery is used for power supply.

Thus according to an information processing system of a ninth embodiment a sheet like magnetic tape capable of magnetically reading information D is attached to an arbitrary entity by the information provider. By the information provider information D is magnetically read from the magnetic tape by using a hand held magnetic information reading display as required and is recorded. Then the information D read from the information reading display is processed into audible type by means of a personal computer or the like.

Therefore even in the case where the entity cannot be seen carefully as in the first and second embodiment information D such as address or contact associated with the entity can be stored in the information reading display momentously without need to write the information by pen or pencil. In this manner in the case where the information reading display with its high throughput information D is displayed on the liquid crystal display on the spot. Even in the case of the information reading device with its low throughput a personal computer is connected and the information D is read from the information reading display to the personal computer . Then the information D associated with the entity can be seen on a display with which a personal computer is provided or direct access to the company can be provided through Internet.

In addition according to the magnetic tape of the present invention as in the first to eighth embodiments information D associated with the entity can be read freely as many times as one likes by means of a magnetic information reading display . Further as in the first embodiment the information D can be transmitted publicly as if a large amount of handbills were distributed. Moreover as in the first embodiment there is no need to prepare handbills or the like in advance these handbills are not disposed illegally on the street thus leading to street beautification.

In this example an information is provided at a hand held cellular phone information associated with the entity is read in an electromagnetic manner by using the information read function from the information providing medium attached to an arbitrary entity and the information recorded in the data format is processed in audible type so that the provided liquid crystal display element or the hand held cellular phone is connected to the personal computer or the like to enable information to be displayed.

The hand held cellular phone shown in is directed to a cellular phone that reads information from the information providing electronic parts attached to an advertising material as shown in for example and processes the information. A cap body is engaged with the hand held cellular phone so as to cover all or part of a cellular phone main body section . A speaker microphone is provided at this cap body and there is provided a loop shaped antenna body shown in the antenna body configuring information read means and there is provided a modulation demodulation circuit IC and high frequency generating circuit IC so as to enable communication with the information providing electronic parts attached to the entity not shown . This antenna body consists of an antenna pattern by about three turns as described in the first embodiment.

The antenna body of the hand held cellular phone shown in is coupled with an antenna body of the previously described information providing electronic parts shown in in an electromagnetic manner and is used in an electrically non contact state. Ten numeric keys are provided at a cellular phone main body section . These ten numeric keys consist of a 0 key K to 9 key K a symbol key K and a key K to be operated by an operator.

In a modulation and or demodulation circuit configuring information read means is connected to the aforementioned antenna . The information read means has at least the modulation demodulation circuit configuring an information read and or write IC circuitry and an antenna body so that information associated with the entity is read from the information providing electronic parts not shown . For example a modulation wave sent from the information providing electronic parts is demodulated by using its demodulation function by means of the modulation demodulation circuit . A data row of information associated with the entity read from the information providing electronic parts by the hand held cellular phone is demodulated.

A high frequency generating circuit is connected to this modulation demodulation circuit and a carrier signal having its frequency of 13.56 MHz is generated. This carrier signal is utilized as an electromagnetic field energy from the modulation demodulation circuit to the information providing electronic parts as described in . A system bus is connected to this modulation demodulation circuit . A CPU is connected to the system bus information after demodulated is displayed and controlled based on a predetermined control program and calling and called control according to a general telephone function is performed.

A key input interface is connected to this system bus and a ten numeric keys provided at the cellular phone main body section is connected to the interface . A command is supplied to a CPU by inputting operation using the ten numeric keys . For example when a specific ten numeric key K is pressed several times any of an information read and display mode or a general telephone mode can be selected.

Here an information read and display mode denotes a function for reading information by superimposing a cap body of this hand held cellular phone on information providing electronic parts and a general telephone mode denotes a general telephone function other than information read and display mode. When the information read and display mode is set for example information reading is started by pressing the key K . An end display may be made when all information has been read. After information reading has completed an operation is made such that the telephone mode is restored by pressing the key K once. In the telephone mode when the ten numeric key K K . . . K is operated the key data D associated with the counterpart telephone number can be inputted.

A jog dial is provided at this hand held cellular phone . This jog dial is connected to a system bus through an input interface for use in search for the counterpart telephone number and search for information read from the information providing electronic parts . In this example when the jog dial is operated display command data D is generated.

A display controller and a video RAM are connected to this system bus and a liquid crystal display with some tens some hundreds of pixels is connected to this display controller . Demodulated information output from the modulation demodulation circuit key data D output from a key input interface and display content data D are temporarily stored in this video RAM .

The display controller reads information from video RAM key data D and display content data D and the liquid crystal display is controlled to be displayed based on these items of information or data. For example in the case of vertically searching a list of information read from the information providing electronic parts on the display screen of the liquid crystal display or a list of the counterpart telephone numbers a liquid crystal display is controlled to be displayed by means of the display controller so that these lists are moved from downward to upward on the display screen based on display command data D generated by operation of the jog dial .

In this example the display is controlled to be displayed so that the display contents on the display screen moves in a direction in which the jog dial is rotated. Information read from the information providing electronic parts can be checked by being displayed on the liquid crystal display .

In addition a ROM is connected to the system bus and a control program for controlling a telephone mode and an information read and display mode or the like is stored. A flash memory that is shown as an example of non volatile storage means is connected to the system bus so as to store the information read by information read means. Further the user telephone number ID number or the like is recorded at a local station. A working DRAM is connected to this system bus and there is temporarily recorded demodulated information key data D Internet information D or display command data D for commanding the contents of the display screen to be commanded.

A backup RAM non volatile memory is connected to the system bus . A backup battery E is connected to a backup RAM . A quartz crystal oscillating element A is connected to a timer that shares the backup RAM and the backup battery E and time data D such as year or date and time is output.

In addition a transmission and reception information processing section is connected to the system bus . A microphone that is a speaker is connected to the transmission and reception information processing section and a user s voice is recorded based on the transmission and is reception processing data D from the CPU . Then amplification processing or the like is performed by the transmission and reception information processing section and the amplified data is output to an RF processing section . At the RF processing section the user s voice is converted into a radio frequency signal and a radio electric wave is irradiated from an antenna .

The counterpart radio electric wave received at this antenna is demodulated into a voice frequency signal by means of the RF processing section and then amplification processing or the like is performed by the transmission and reception information processing section and the amplified data is output to a speaker that is a cellular phone receiver. In this manner the user can communicate with the counterpart.

In addition a touch panel interface may be provided at the system bus to ensure pen input. In this case a touch panel needs to be on the screen of the liquid crystal display . Further in this example the external device USB terminal IC card interfaces each having sockets A and A and external device interface are connected to the system bus so that information processing using the external personal computer external IC card and communications modem can be expanded.

Of course a power supply section is connected to these function processing circuits and an operation for connection to the counterpart telephone line is performed after a power switch SW has been turned ON. Even if the power switch SW is not turned ON the buzzer from the counterpart is sounded by the backup battery E.

Now a description will be given to an example of processing in a hand held cellular phone with its information read function according to a tenth embodiment.

In this example it is presumed that at this hand held cellular phone there are provided at least a modulation demodulation circuit an antenna body a high frequency wave generating circuit and a USB terminal which achieve an information read function from information providing electronic parts attached to an arbitrary entity the information associated with the entity is read in an electromagnetic manner by using the information read function and then the information recorded in a data format is processed into audible type inside of the hand held cellular phone or is processed by the external personal computer or the like.

With this being presumed in the case where information is read from the information providing electronic parts of the entity shown in a cap body is first opened from the cellular phone main body section . Then an information read and display mode is set by pressing a specific key K or the like several times. In this manner a control program associated with the information read and display mode is read from ROM to CPU and the mode is executed. Thereafter the cap body of the hand held cellular phone is made close to information providing electronic parts to be superimposed with each other. At this time there is no need for both of them to be brought into contact with each other. Depending on the strength of electromagnetic field energy they are made close to each other within the range of 10 cm for example whereby they are coupled with each other in an electromagnetic manner.

In this state when a key K is pressed information reading is started. In a hand held cellular phone a carrier signal of 13.65 MHz is generated by means of a high frequency generating circuit and is output to an antenna body through a modulation demodulation circuit . This carrier signal is used to be demodulated by means of a modulation demodulation circuit and is used as a power supply to information providing electronic parts . A modulation wave sent from the information providing electronic parts activated by this power supply to the hand held cellular phone is demodulated by using the demodulation function of the modulation demodulation circuit . For example a data row of information associated with the entity is demodulated the information being sent from the information providing. electronic parts to the hand held cellular phone . This information after demodulated is temporarily stored in a flash memory DRAM or V RAM . Of course information reading end flag is detected and the end display may be made on the liquid crystal display after all the information has been read. After information reading has been completed an operation is made such that a telephone mode is restored by pressing a key K once.

This hand held cellular phone is provided so as to enable search for the counterpart telephone number and search for information read from the information providing electronic parts or the like by using a jog dial . Of course information is processed into audible type by means of CPU and video RAM . For example after information has been converted into characters or symbols image data is produced. Then as in the case of search for the counterpart telephone number the jog dial is operated and display command data D is output to the display controller or V RAM through an input interface and a system bus .

A liquid crystal display of several tens x several hundreds of pixels is connected to this display controller so that the display is controlled based on image data information after processed from the video RAM key data D outputted from a key input interface and the display content data D. For example image data caused by information read from the information providing electronic parts is displayed on the display screen of the liquid crystal display so that the contents can be checked on the spot.

At this time when past information remains as update history information on lists these information lists can be searched for by operation of the jog dial . In this manner information read from the entity such as advertising material attached to station concourse by using the information read and display function of the hand held cellular phone and the information can be displayed on the liquid crystal display in train so that the read information can be seen carefully.

For example the hand held cellular phone and personal computer are connected to each other by using the USB terminal and communications cable at home and information is read from this hand held cellular phone . Information associated with the entity is displayed on a display with which a personal computer is provided.

Therefore information such as address or contact associated with the entity can be recorded in a flash memory or the like in a hand held cellular phone momentously by means of the hand held cellular phone with the information read and display function without depending on the specific information reading displays and described in the first to ninth embodiments.

Moreover information associated with the entity read from the flash memory can be processed by utilizing a telephone function any time. In this manner the information can be transferred to an acquaintance in the early stage. Even if the information is not written by pen or pencil the information is read from the hand held cellular phone to a personal computer or the like in another place so that the information associated with the entity can be seen on the liquid crystal display or admission tickets can be reserved or purchased directly from the company being the entity through Internet.

According to this hand held cellular phone data format information can be acquired. Thus the information on the entity can be reviewed as many times as one likes without any visit to the advertising site of the entity again. As a result a hand held cellular phone or the like with its electronic memo function can be provided.

As has been described according to an information processing system information is read from an information providing medium attached to an entity in an electromagnetic or optical manner by using a hand held terminal device with its information read function. Then information associated with the entity is read from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit and is processed.

With this configuration in the case where an information user attempts to acquire information associated with the entity the information can be stored in a hand held cellular phone momentously. Then information is read from the hand held terminal device to the information processing unit so that information associated with the entity can be subjected to display processing genuineness or counterfeit discrimination processing voice output processing or the like. Therefore the information processing system can be fully applied to an electronic advertising system a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system a commodity business providing system or the like.

According to a hand held cellular phone of the present invention in the case where information is read from an information providing medium attached to an entity and is processed there is provided non volatile storage means wherein information read from an information providing medium of an entity is stored.

With this configuration information associated with an entity read from storage means can be processed by utilizing a telephone function any time.

According to an information providing method of the present invention information can be read in an electromagnetic or optical manner an information providing medium for providing information associated with the entity is attached to an entity information is read from this information providing medium in an electromagnetic or optical manner and is recorded and then the recorded information is read and processed.

With this configuration in the case where an information user attempts to acquire information associated with the entity the information can be read in an electromagnetic or optical manner momentously. Moreover information associated with the entity can be utilized even without the information being written by pen or pencil as many time as one likes.

The present invention is very preferable by being applied to an electronic advertising system a commodity selling system a commodity information providing system a food information providing system a recording medium information providing system an exhibition information providing system a commodity genuineness or counterfeit discriminating system and the like.

