---

title: Detection of electrophilic and nucleophilic chemical agents
abstract: A “real time” method for detecting chemical agents generally and particularly electrophilic and nucleophilic species by employing tunable, precursor sensor materials that mimic the physiological interaction of these agents to form highly florescent berberine-type alkaloids that can be easily and rapidly detected. These novel precursor sensor materials can be tuned for reaction with both electrophilic (chemical species, toxins) and nucleophilic (proteins and other biological molecules) species. By bonding or otherwise attaching these precursor molecules to a surface or substrate they can be used in numerous applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08802444&OS=08802444&RS=08802444
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08802444
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120720
---
This application is a divisional application of and discloses subject matter this is related to subject matter disclosed in parent application U.S. Ser. No. 11 983 500 filed Nov. 9 2007 and entitled DETECTION OF ELECTROPHILIC AND NUCLEOPHILIC CHEMICAL AGENTS. The present application claims the priority of its parent application. The parent application is incorporated herein by reference. The parent application is a continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 11 416 667 entitled DETECTION OF ELECTROPHILIC AND NUCLEOPHILIC CHEMICAL AGENTS now U.S. Pat. No. 7 449 579 .

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

This invention is directed to a method for the detection of chemical agents generally and in particular to the detection of electrophilic and nucleophilic species including chemical and biological warfare agents by reaction with precursor sensor materials to produce readily detectable fluorescent berberine based alkaloids.

Rapid and sensitive detection of chemical warfare and biological agents have been an area of growing interest and importance. There are many current approaches toward chemical warfare agent CWA detection such as ion mobility spectroscopy Cottingham K. 10 1103 435A439A surface acoustic wave Williams D. Pappas G. 1999 3 45 53 microcantilever Yang Y Ji H F. Thundat T. 2003 125 1124 1125 and interferometric devices Sohn H. Letant S. Sailor M. J. Trogler W. C. 2000 122 5399 5400 . While some of these methods show CWA simulant detection at low concentrations specificity and discrimination among chemical threat agents is still lacking. Swager Zhang S W. Swager T. M. 2003 125 3420 3421 has disclosed a novel fluorescent chemical detection method that yielded fluorescent species upon reaction with CWA simulants. However Swager s chemical sensors do not allow for chemical modification amenable to a broad range of analytical platforms and suffer from low Stokes shifts 65 nm with significant overlap of exciting light absorption and fluorescent emission. This effect results in low detection sensitivity to CWA simulants. Slow kinetics also limits sensitivity. Furthermore it is important that the detection method or materials used allow for integration into multiple analytical platforms.

Moreover long wavelength fluorogenic chemical sensors that are reactively activated by biological agents do not exist. Fluorescent markers e.g. green fluorescent protein and derivatives currently used in cell biology are costly and suffer from background fluorescence from unreacted probes in experiments designed to detect molecular interactions.

The instant invention takes advantage of the observation that certain materials hereinafter referred to as precursor sensor material s chemical sensor materials precursor molecule s or sensor molecule s will react with both electrophilic chemical species toxins and nucleophilic species amino acids peptides proteins and other biological molecules to form highly fluorescent compounds and thus can be used to detect very low concentrations of chemical agents particularly hazardous chemical and biological materials and especially chemical and biological warfare agents.

Accordingly the invention is directed inter alia to a real time method for detecting the presence of chemical and biological warfare agents by employing tunable precursor sensor materials that mimic the physiological interaction of these agents to form highly florescent berberine type alkaloids that can be easily and rapidly detected. For more general applications these novel precursor sensor materials can be tuned for reaction with both electrophilic and nucleophilic species. It is postulated that the molecules that constitute the chemical sensor materials react with a target species to transform two out of plane weakly conjugated short wavelength sensor molecules into one rigid planar conjugated chromophore with strong long wavelength fluorescence 530 560 nm and large Stokes shift 100 180 nm . Fluorescence intensity reactivity wavelength and Stokes shift can all be tuned through altering the substituents on the chemical sensor molecule.

Synthetic methodology and proof of principle have been demonstrated with representative electrophilic and nucleophilic chemical species.

The method of the invention and materials described herein can be configured to detect an analyte that can be an electrophilic or nucleophilic material in a liquid or a vapor. The invention operates generally by monitoring the optical properties of a precursor material that is transformed into a rigid planar conjugated chromophore having strong long wavelength fluorescence 530 560 nm and large Stokes shift 100 180 nm by reaction with the analyte.

In this invention advantage is taken of the well characterized optical properties of berberine type alkaloids namely high fluorescence intensity and large Stokes shifts Pavelka S. Smekal E. 41 3175 69 1976. to detect chemical agents both electrophilic and nucleophilic species generally and in particular chemical and biological warfare agents hereinafter referred to by the acronym CWA . By employing a tunable precursor sensor material that mimics the physiological interaction of a CWA to produce a highly florescent berberine alkaloid reaction product the CWA can be easily and rapidly detected by spectroscopic means. The term tunable as employed herein means changing the character and or position of various functionalities such as for example methylene dioxy and methoxy groups on the precursor sensor molecule thereby affecting the fluorescence intensity and or wavelength of the fluorescence emission and magnitude of the Stokes shift. A more complete listing of the structural and fluorescent property variations that can result from the incorporation of various functionalities can be found in Pavella ibid. .

For the purpose of describing this invention the novel precursor sensor material can be represented by generic formula 1 

It is believed that where the functionality R is an alcohol the interaction between the functionalized precursor molecule and a CWA can be represented by the general reaction scheme below to form the fluorescent molecule pseudocoptisine.

In this proposed reaction scheme once the precursor alcohol 1 reacts with a CWA an intermediate 2 is formed. This step is immediately followed by an intermolecular cyclization reaction resulting in a rigid planar conjugated highly delocalized chromophore 3 pseudocoptisine. As shown in reaction product 3 has a Stokes shift of 176 nm and is highly fluorescent thereby allowing for unambiguous detection of a CWA.

It is recognized that for nucleophilic reactions and detection of bio molecules precursor molecule 1 can require activation of the alcohol functionality. Thus in another aspect of the invention a preliminary preparation step can be necessary for the detection of biological warfare agents. One preparation method can be the reaction of precursor sensor alcohol molecule 1 with carbonyldiimidazole CDI which is a known cross linker for cross linking biological molecules proteins antibodies and DNA and modifying polymeric substrates such as poly vinylalcohol . Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC can also be used in a similar fashion for the activation of precursor molecule 1. This process and the proposed subsequent reaction with a protein molecule is represented by the reaction scheme below in which activation is by the use of DCC.

Here alcohol 1 is reacted with DCC to form O alkyl isourea 1a . It is the intermediate isourea 1a that when exposed to a biomolecule containing carboxylic acid functionalities cyclizes to form rigid planar conjugated highly delocalized chromophore 3. Reaction of 1a with the carboxylic acid functionality of a protein will result in the formation of molecule 1b and dicyclohexyl urea. Intramolecular ring closing of 1b forms a highly fluorescent reaction product pseudocoptisine 3.

Synthetic methodology for exemplary precursor sensor molecules 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 vinyl phenyl isoquinoline and 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 ethanol isoquinoline is presented in the examples below.

To a solution of 1 2 methylenedioxy 5 alkynyl 6 vinylbenzene in triethylamine 15 mL was added Pd PPh Cl 18.5 mg 0.26 mmol and CuI 2.3 mg 0.12 mmol and the reaction was stirred under Ar for 15 minutes. N 4 iodobenzo 1 3 dioxol 6 yl methylene tert butylamine was added and the reaction stirred at 50 C under Ar until TLC SiO 114 ethyl acetate petroleum ether showed consumption of starting material. The reaction was filtered the filtrate washed with diethyl ether 20 mL and concentrated in vacuo. The crude imine alkyne was used without farther purification or analysis. The residue was dissolved in CHCl AgN0 13.8 mg 0.81 mmol was added and the reaction was heated and stirred under Ar at 50 C until TLC SiO 1 4 ethyl acetate petroleum ether showed consumption of starting material. The reaction was diluted with CHCland washed with brine. The organic layer was removed and the aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl the organic layers combined dried and concentrated in vacuo. Column chromatography Si0 30 70 ethyl acetatepetroleum ether of the residue yielded 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 vinylphenyl isoquinoline in 26 yield as a yellow oil. IH NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.08 s IH 7.63 s IH 7.41 s 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.20 s IH 7.04 s 1H 6.87 dd J 15.0 10.0 Hz IH 6.20 s 2H 6.06 s 2H 5.66 dd J 15.0 1.0 Hz 1H 5.08 dd J 10.0 1.0 Hz 1H .

To a solution of 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 vinylphenyl isoquinoline 750 mg 2.35 mmol in anhydrous THF was added 1.0 M BH THF 4.70 mL 4.70 mmol . The reaction stirred at RT for 1 hour under Ar after which water 230 mL was added dropwise followed by 3N NaOH 320 mL . Hydrogen peroxide 37 320 mL was added dropwise and the reaction stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. Ethyl acetate 150 mL was added to the reaction mixture which was then washed with water 100 mL and brine 100 mL . The organic layer was dried MgS0 and the solvent removed in vacuo. Column chromatography Si0 70 30 ethyl acetate petroleum ether yielded 1 in 36 yield as a colorless solid. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.00 s IH 7.63 s 1H 7.22 s 1H 7.10 s IH 6.85 s 1H 6.12 s 2H 5.98 s 2H 3.97 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 5.08 t J 6.0 Hz 2H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl 151.91 150.95 148.82 148.24 147.71 146.16 135.76 133.04 132.75 124.38 120.48 110.09 109.96 103.18 102.61 101.89 101.25 63.79 35.29.

In order to better understand and appreciate its nature and scope the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter by way of various examples illustrative of the invention. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein but as defined by the appended claims.

A solution of alcohol 1 i.e. 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenediox 6 ethanol phenyl isoquinoline was dissolved in DMSO to a 10M solution. About 20 L of the chemical nerve agent simulant diisopropyl chlorophosphate DCP was added to about 3 mL of the alcohol solution. The reaction was monitored using a Barnstead International Turner Quantech Digital filter fluorometer incorporating a narrow band excitation filter at 360 nm and a 515 nm excitation filter. The Turner spectrometer was operated in a raw fluorescence mode. The fluorescence response time data are shown in .

Solutions of nerve agent tabun Edgewood Chemical and Biological Center were prepared by adding 20 L of neat agent to samples containing the chemical sensor 3 mL of 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 ethanol phenyl isoquinoline 1.1 10M . The reaction was monitored as in EXAMPLE A above. The Turner spectrometer was operated in raw fluorescence mode. The fluorescence response with time for reaction of the chemical sensor with tabun to form the reaction product pseudocoptisine is shown in .

Alcohol 1 5 mg i.e. 6 7 methylenedioxy 3 3 4 methylenedioxy 6 ethanol phenyl isoquinoline was dissolved in deuterated CHCl. CuCl 1 mg and DCC 15 mg i.e. dicylcohexylcarbodimide was added and the reaction was monitored by H NMR until complete. The solution was filtered concentrated to dryness dissolved in deuterated DMSO and divided into two portions. The portions were then reacted with representative amino acids that are found in proteins. The first portion was reacted with aspartic acid 5 mg and the second portion was reacted with lysine 5 mg . H NMR revealed that each portion rapidly reacted with the amino acids to form psuedocoptisine 3 and exhibited the same spectral properties given in .

It is contemplated that the instant invention can be used in numerous applications by bonding or otherwise attaching the precursor chemical material to a surface or substrate. Tethering of the chemical sensor material to a substrate can be by means of substituents such as alcohols thiols and or polymerizable groups such as alkenes on rings A and D of the chemical sensor cf. formula I .

In one embodiment of the invention the substrate can be a transparent amorphous polymer that would allow detection of a CWA or other chemical species in fluid samples such as sewage or industrial discharges.

In still another embodiment the precursor chemical sensor materials can be incorporated into a fiber optic system having a flexible fiber optic probe such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 623 973 to Levitsky.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the precursor chemical sensor materials disclosed herein can be incorporated into a handheld platform for field detection of CWA or biomolecules such as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 633 871 filed Aug. 4 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 452 507 incorporated herein in its entirety.

