---

title: Ceramic and refractory metal core assembly
abstract: A core assembly for forming a cast component includes a refractory metal core and a ceramic core element. The refractory metal core includes first and second ends and sides extending from the first end to the second end. The ceramic core element includes a slot positioned between first and second lands, each land having an inner surface facing the slot and an adjacent outer surface. The first end of the refractory metal core is secured within the slot with an adhesive, and the refractory metal core extends from the ceramic core element in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction. The slot, lands, and refractory metal core form a core assembly providing access paths to the sides of the refractory metal core. Surplus adhesive is removed from the refractory metal core via the access paths. Investment casting provides the component with an internal passage and an internal cooling circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486854&OS=09486854&RS=09486854
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09486854
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Turbine engine components such as turbine blades and vanes are operated in high temperature environments. To avoid deterioration in the components resulting from their exposure to high temperatures it is necessary to provide cooling circuits within the components. Turbine blades and vanes are subjected to high thermal loads on both the suction and pressure sides of their airfoil portions and at both the leading and trailing edges. The regions of the airfoils having the highest thermal load can differ depending on engine design and specific operating conditions.

Refractory metal core technology offers the potential to provide higher specific cooling passages for turbine components such as blade and vane airfoils and seals. Refractory metal core technology allows cooling circuits to be placed just under the surface of the airfoil through which cooling air flows and is expelled into the gaspath. However state of the art cooling circuits made using refractory metal cores can contain artifacts in the event of incomplete removal of adhesive material prior to casting. These defects and artifacts can reduce the cooling effectiveness provided by the cooling circuits and compromise the strength of the component.

A method for casting a component includes forming a refractory metal core forming a ceramic core element securing a first end of the refractory metal core into a slot of the ceramic core with an adhesive to form a core assembly removing surplus adhesive from the refractory metal core and investment casting the airfoil using the core assembly. The refractory metal core includes first and second ends and first and second sides each side extending from the first end to the second end. The ceramic core element includes an upstream end a downstream end a first side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end a second side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end and generally opposite the first and a slot positioned between a first land and a second land for receiving the first end of the refractory metal core. Each land includes an inner surface facing the slot and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The refractory metal core extends from the ceramic core element in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction. The slot and the first and second lands of the ceramic core element and the first end and the first and second sides of the refractory metal core form a core assembly that provides access paths to the first and second sides of the refractory metal core near the first end. Surplus adhesive is removed from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core near the first end of the refractory metal core with a tool via the access paths. Investment casting provides the component with an internal core passage and an internal cooling circuit.

A core assembly includes a ceramic core element a refractory metal core and an adhesive. The ceramic core element includes an upstream end a downstream end a first side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end a second side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end and generally opposite the first and a slot formed between a first land and a second land. Each land has an inner surface facing the slot and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The refractory metal core includes first and second ends a first side extending from the first end to the second end and a second side extending from the first end to the second end. The refractory metal core extends from the ceramic core element in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction. The first end is secured within the slot of the ceramic core element with the adhesive so that the first side of the refractory metal core and the first land form a first access path to the adhesive and the second side of the refractory metal core and the second land form a second access path to the adhesive. The first and second access paths allow adhesive removal from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core.

A cast component includes a leading edge surface a trailing edge surface a pressure side surface extending from the leading edge surface to the trailing edge surface a suction side surface extending from the leading edge surface to the trailing edge surface generally opposite the pressure side surface a first feed cavity a second feed cavity a rib separating the first and second feed cavities and a cooling passage. The first feed cavity is located between the leading edge and trailing edge surfaces and between the pressure side and suction side surfaces and bounded by a first cavity wall. The second feed cavity is located between the first feed cavity and the trailing edge surface and between the pressure side and suction side surfaces and bounded by a second cavity wall. The cooling passage is in communication with the first feed cavity and extends between the second feed cavity and either the pressure side surface or the suction side surface.

Cooling circuits for components such as airfoils can be prepared by investment casting using refractory metal cores. Prior to casting the refractory metal cores are secured to ceramic core elements with an adhesive to form a core assembly. As described herein the refractory metal cores are arranged within the core assembly to provide access to both sides of the refractory metal cores so that surplus adhesive can be more easily removed.

Investment casting is one technique used to create hollow components such as blades and vanes for gas turbine engines. In some investment casting methods ceramic core elements are used to form the inner passages of blade and vane airfoils and platforms. Refractory metal cores RMCs can be used to form internal cooling circuits that receive cooling fluid from the inner passages formed by the ceramic core elements. In one investment casting method a ceramic feed core and an RMC are separately formed. The RMC is then secured to the ceramic feed core typically using a ceramic adhesive or glue. A wax pattern is formed over the RMC and ceramic feed core cores or core assembly. A ceramic shell is then formed over the wax pattern and the wax pattern is removed from the shell. Molten metal is introduced into the ceramic shell. The molten metal upon cooling solidifies and forms the walls of the airfoil and or platform. The ceramic feed core can form inner passages within the airfoil and or platform and the RMC can define an internal cooling circuit. The ceramic shell is removed from the cast part. Thereafter the ceramic feed core and the RMC are removed typically chemically using a suitable removal technique. Removal of the RMC leaves a cooling circuit within the wall of the airfoil and or platform.

During casting ceramic cores and form inner passages within the airfoil that travel in a generally spanwise direction e.g. radially through a central region of the airfoil . Leading edge ceramic core includes upstream surface downstream surface pressure side surface and suction side surface . As shown in slot is formed along downstream surface . Midchord ceramic core includes upstream surface downstream surface pressure side surface and suction side surface . Slot is formed along downstream surface . Trailing edge ceramic core includes upstream surface downstream surface pressure side surface and suction side surface . Slot is formed along downstream surface . Slots and can extend the full span length of ceramic cores and respectively or only a portion of the full length of the ceramic cores.

Upstream RMC includes first end second end first side and second side . As shown in first end is positioned within slot . First end of RMC is held in place within slot with a ceramic adhesive or glue not shown in . The ceramic adhesive can be applied to the RMC prior to or after insertion into the ceramic core slot by various suitable means. The ceramic adhesive secures first end within slot so that RMC is in contact with slot and the internal cooling circuit formed in the cast airfoil communicates with the formed inner passage. The ceramic adhesive generally completely fills the slots within the ceramic cores.

Upstream RMC also includes a plurality of openings . Once cast openings form a plurality of pedestals or other features that direct cooling fluid through the cooling circuit. Openings can be circular oblong racetrack shaped teardrop shaped or any other shape depending on the flow control needs of the cooling circuit. Upstream RMC has a spanwise length appropriate for the length of slot . Upstream RMC can be straight between first end and second end . Alternatively upstream RMC can include one or more bends between ends and as shown in . Downstream RMC includes first end second end first side second side and openings . Trailing edge RMC includes first end second end first side second side and openings . The above description of upstream RMC also applies to downstream RMC and trailing edge RMC .

In the illustrated embodiment one notable difference between trailing edge RMC and both upstream RMC and downstream RMC is that trailing edge RMC is received by slot along downstream surface of trailing edge ceramic core while upstream RMC and downstream RMC can be received in slots along the downstream surface of ceramic cores and respectively or along the pressure or suction side surfaces of ceramic cores and . Trailing edge ceramic core is typically easier to cast and maintain control over wall thicknesses than ceramic cores and . Casting ceramic cores and is more difficult due to the angles at which upstream RMC and downstream RMC are secured to ceramic cores and respectively. Additionally second side of RMC and second side of RMC are adjacent to additional ceramic cores ceramic cores and respectively and cannot be positioned through the wax wall of the suction surface side as RMC can. As described below in greater detail RMCs and also extend in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction.

The ceramic adhesive used to secure the RMCs to the ceramic cores can migrate and wick along the RMC traveling to a downstream region of the RMC outside of the slot on the ceramic core. This surplus adhesive can create undesired artifacts in the cast component such as inclusions and fins which can reduce the cooling effectiveness of the internal cooling circuits formed by the RMCs or impact the strength of the component. To avoid the formation of these unwanted artifacts excess ceramic adhesive should be removed prior to forming the wax pattern. A tool was developed and is typically used to remove surplus adhesive. The tool can remove surplus adhesive along the regions of the RMCs that the tool can access. Certain configurations of RMCs and ceramic cores prevent access to one side of the RMC where the ceramic adhesive can wick however. In these configurations the ceramic adhesive is more difficult to remove from one side of the RMC e.g. the side of the RMC adjacent to the ceramic core . The embodiments described herein provide configurations that allow adhesive removal from both sides of the RMC.

As shown in upstream RMC includes first section and second section . First section is located proximate to first end of RMC and a portion of first section is located within slot . Second section is located between first section and second end of RMC . Second section is angled with respect to first section as illustrated in . Angle represents the angle formed between first section and second section . In some embodiments angle is at least about 90 . Upstream RMC can contain more than two sections angled relative to one another. As shown in upstream RMC contains four different sections each section angled relative to the adjacent section s as shown by the bends in RMC . This configuration provides an RMC that extends from a ceramic core in both a longitudinal direction i.e. upstream or downstream and a transverse direction i.e. laterally away from the camber line of the cast airfoil . The above description of leading edge ceramic core and upstream RMC also applies to midchord ceramic core and downstream RMC .

As shown in ceramic adhesive has flowed out of slot and along first and second sides and of upstream RMC . Ceramic adhesive outside of slot can create the unwanted artifacts in the resulting cast component as described above. also illustrates tool dashed line that can be used to remove surplus ceramic adhesive that has flowed out of slot along the sides of upstream RMC . Tool can be used to remove ceramic adhesive on both first side and second side of upstream RMC as shown. Some configurations do not allow tool to be used on both sides of the RMC due to spatial constraints. Here however tool can reach first side and second side of the RMC.

Tool can be used to remove ceramic adhesive before or after core assembly is assembled. Because ceramic cores and are separate elements each ceramic core and adjoining RMC can be assembled separately. That is upstream RMC can be secured to leading edge ceramic core with ceramic adhesive apart from the other ceramic cores and RMCs. The ceramic adhesive can be removed by tool before leading edge ceramic core and upstream RMC are aligned with the other cores to form overall core assembly . Ceramic adhesive can be removed from both sides of upstream RMC since no obstructions prevent access to first side or second side of upstream RMC . illustrates access paths A and B from which tool can approach ceramic adhesive .

Alternatively ceramic adhesive can be removed by tool after two or more of the various cores of core assembly have been assembled. illustrates a cross section view of leading edge ceramic core midchord ceramic core and upstream RMC shown in taken along the line . While showed core assembly before all of the ceramic cores were positioned together illustrates core assembly after two or more of the ceramic cores have been positioned together. shows both ceramic core and midchord ceramic core . Referring to ceramic adhesive can be removed from first side of upstream RMC using tool via access path A as no obstructions prevent access to first side . The space between leading edge ceramic core and midchord ceramic core creates access path B between suction side surface of leading edge ceramic core and suction side surface of midchord ceramic core . Access path B provides room for tool to be maneuvered between ceramic cores and to remove ceramic adhesive from second side of upstream RMC . Additionally ceramic adhesive can be removed from a single ceramic core of a given configuration with advantageously placed openings and spaces that provide access paths .

As shown in the slots on a ceramic core that receive an RMC can be located along a downstream end of the core. Slots and of leading edge ceramic core and midchord ceramic core respectively are located on respective downstream surfaces and . As shown in lands and both have sides located along downstream surface . RMCs and extend from the slot and bend away from the center of the ceramic cores so that they proceed downstream from slots and respectively and along the sides of the downstream ceramic cores.

The slots that receive an RMC can also be located along the pressure or suction side of a ceramic core. illustrates one embodiment of a core assembly having a ceramic core with a slot along the pressure side surface of the core. As shown in core assembly A includes only a single core ceramic core A with downstream surface A and pressure side surface A. Core assembly A also includes upstream RMC A. Upstream RMC A extends from slots A located on pressure side surface A of ceramic core A. Upstream RMC A includes first section A located proximate to first end A and a portion of first section A is located in slot A.

Pressure side surface A of ceramic core A is set back near downstream end A and first section A of upstream RMC A is elongated to provide access paths A and B to ceramic adhesive on both sides A and A of upstream RMC A before upstream RMC A bends. By lengthening first section A and setting back slot A enough room is provided between upstream RMC A and ceramic core A for tool to be used to remove ceramic adhesive . In this embodiment first land A and second land A are positioned along the pressure side surface of ceramic core A. As described above with respect to RMC A extends from a ceramic core in both a longitudinal direction second section A and a transverse direction first section A . While the above description has referred to upstream RMC A specifically downstream RMC pictured in can be arranged in a similar fashion. The configuration of RMCs and ceramic cores shown in allows for adhesive removal from both sides of upstream RMC A and downstream RMC by creating access paths to both sides of the RMCs.

The slots in the ceramic core that receive the RMC can also be located on a chamfer. illustrate ceramic cores with chamfered landings that contain slots. illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of a core assembly. Core assembly B includes leading edge ceramic core B midchord ceramic core B trailing edge ceramic core B RMC B RMC B RMC C and RMC B. is a cross section view of ceramic core B of taken along the line . As shown in leading edge ceramic core B is chamfered between first land B and second land B. Locating slot B on a chamfer can provide improved access to the sides of RMC B with tool for adhesive removal. also illustrates a slot in which one of the lands is on a downstream end of the ceramic core and the other land is on a side pressure or suction side of the ceramic core. First land B is located along downstream surface while second land B is located along pressure side surface . shows an enlarged view of one embodiment of a slot on a chamfered landing with an RMC.

Ceramic cores can contain more than one slot for receiving an RMC. show an embodiment of a core assembly in which two RMCs are secured to a single ceramic core. RMC B and RMC C are both secured to midchord ceramic core B. RMC B extends from slot B in a generally downstream direction while RMC C extends from slot C in a generally upstream direction. Given the arrangement of ceramic cores and RMCs as shown in the ceramic adhesive is removed from the inner side of RMC C before core assembly B is fully assembled as no paths allow tool access to that side of the RMC once ceramic cores B and B are positioned.

Core assemblies can be used to form airfoils with cooling circuits using die or investment casting techniques. illustrates a simplified flow diagram of one embodiment of an investment casting method method for forming an airfoil. A refractory metal core RMC is formed and coated in step . The RMC includes first and second ends and first and second sides each side extending from the first end to the second end. A ceramic core element is formed in step . The ceramic core element includes a slot positioned between first and second lands. In step the first end of the RMC is secured into the slot of the ceramic core element with an adhesive. The slot first and second lands of the ceramic core element and the first end and first and second sides of the RMC form a core assembly that provides access paths to the first and second sides of the RMC near the first end. Surplus adhesive is removed from the first and second sides of the RMC near the first end with a tool via the access paths in step . Investment casting processes are then applied in step to form the airfoil. The core assembly is fully assembled prior to casting. Depending on the configuration of the ceramic core elements and the RMCs the assembly can take place between steps and or steps and . In embodiments like those shown in access paths are present between adjacent ceramic cores allowing adhesive removal after the core is assembled. In embodiments like those shown in adhesive is removed prior to full assembly of the core assembly.

During step a wax pattern is formed over the core assembly. A ceramic shell is then formed over the wax pattern and the wax pattern is removed from the shell. Molten metal is introduced into the ceramic shell. The molten metal upon cooling solidifies and forms the walls of the airfoil. The ceramic core element forms inner passages within the airfoil and the RMC forms the profile of a cooling circuit within the wall of the airfoil. The ceramic shell is removed from the cast part. Thereafter the ceramic feed core and the RMC are removed typically chemically using a suitable removal technique. Removal of the RMC provides an airfoil with a cooling circuit within the airfoil wall. Because the adhesive was able to be removed from the first and second sides of the RMC the cooling circuit can be cast without unwanted artifacts.

A method for casting a component can include forming a refractory metal core forming a ceramic core element securing a first end of the refractory metal core into a slot of the ceramic core with an adhesive to form a core assembly removing surplus adhesive from the refractory metal core and investment casting the airfoil using the core assembly. The refractory metal core can include first and second ends and first and second sides each side extending from the first end to the second end. The ceramic core element can include an upstream end a downstream end a first side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end a second side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end and generally opposite the first and a slot positioned between a first land and a second land for receiving the first end of the refractory metal core. Each land can include an inner surface facing the slot and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The refractory metal core can extend from the ceramic core element in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction. The slot and the first and second lands of the ceramic core element and the first end and the first and second sides of the refractory metal core can form a core assembly that provides access paths to the first and second sides of the refractory metal core near the first end. Surplus adhesive can be removed from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core near the first end of the refractory metal core with a tool via the access paths. Investment casting can provide the component with an internal core passage and an internal cooling circuit.

The method of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods at least one of the first and second lands can be located on the downstream end of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods at least one of the first and second lands can be located on the upstream end of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods at least one of the first and second lands can be located on one of the sides of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the ceramic core element can further include a chamfer between the first and second lands.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the refractory metal core can further include a first section proximate to the first end and a second section located between the first section and the second end where the second section is angled relative the first section.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the angle between the first and second sections can be at least about 90 .

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the method can further include 1 forming a second core assembly having a second refractory metal core with first and second ends and first and second sides each side extending from the first end to the second end and a second ceramic core element having a second slot positioned between a first land and a second land of the second ceramic core element where the second refractory metal core is secured within the slot of the second ceramic core element with an adhesive 2 removing substantially all surplus adhesive from the first and second sides of the second refractory metal core near the first end and 3 positioning the first and second core assemblies together prior to casting so that investment casting provides the component with two internal core passages and two internal cooling circuits.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the first and second core assemblies can be positioned so that a portion of the first refractory metal core overlaps with a portion of the second refractory metal core.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the steps of removing surplus adhesive from the sides of the refractory metal core and the second refractory metal core can occur prior to positioning the first and second core assemblies together.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing methods the steps of removing surplus adhesive from the sides of the refractory metal core and the second refractory metal core can occur after positioning the first and second core assemblies together.

A core assembly can include a ceramic core element a refractory metal core and an adhesive. The ceramic core element can include an upstream end a downstream end a first side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end a second side extending from the upstream end to the downstream end and generally opposite the first and a slot formed between a first land and a second land. Each land can have an inner surface facing the slot and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface. The refractory metal core can include first and second ends a first side extending from the first end to the second end and a second side extending from the first end to the second end. The refractory metal core can extend from the ceramic core element in both a longitudinal and a transverse direction. The first end can be secured within the slot of the ceramic core element with the adhesive so that the first side of the refractory metal core and the first land form a first access path to the adhesive and the second side of the refractory metal core and the second land form a second access path to the adhesive. The first and second access paths can allow adhesive removal from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core.

The assembly of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

In a further embodiment of the foregoing assembly at least one of the first and second lands can be located on the downstream end of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies at least one of the first and second lands can be located on the upstream end of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies at least one of the first and second lands can be located on one of the sides of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the ceramic core element can further include a chamfer between the first and second lands.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the slot can be located on a set back portion of the ceramic core element.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the core assembly can further include 1 a second ceramic core element having a slot formed between a first land and a second land each land having an inner surface facing the slot and an outer surface adjacent the inner surface and 2 a second refractory metal core having first and second ends a first side extending from the first end to the second end and a second side extending from the first end to the second end where the first end of the second refractory metal core is secured within the slot of the second ceramic core element with an adhesive such that the first side of the second refractory metal core and the first land form a first access path to the adhesive and the second side of the refractory metal core and the second land form a second access path to the adhesive the first and second access paths allowing adhesive removal from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the first and second ceramic core elements can be positioned so that a portion of the first refractory metal core overlaps with a portion of the second refractory metal core.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the ceramic core element can further include 1 a second slot formed between a third land and a fourth land each land having an inner surface facing the second slot and an outer surface generally opposite the second slot and 2 a second refractory metal core having first and second ends a first side extending from the first end to the second end and a second side extending from the first end to the second end where the first end of the second refractory metal core is secured within the second slot of the ceramic core element with an adhesive such that the first side of the second refractory metal core and the third land form a first access path to the adhesive and the second side of the refractory metal core and the fourth land form a second access path to the adhesive the first and second access paths allowing adhesive removal from the first and second sides of the refractory metal core.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the adhesive used to secure the refractory metal core to the ceramic core element can be a ceramic adhesive.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the core assembly can be substantially free of adhesive outside of the slot.

A cast component can include a leading edge surface a trailing edge surface a pressure side surface extending from the leading edge surface to the trailing edge surface a suction side surface extending from the leading edge surface to the trailing edge surface generally opposite the pressure side surface a first feed cavity a second feed cavity a rib separating the first and second feed cavities and a cooling passage. The first feed cavity can be located between the leading edge and trailing edge surfaces and between the pressure side and suction side surfaces and bounded by a first cavity wall. The second feed cavity can be located between the first feed cavity and the trailing edge surface and between the pressure side and suction side surfaces and bounded by a second cavity wall. The cooling passage can be in communication with the first feed cavity and can extend between the second feed cavity and either the pressure side surface or the suction side surface.

The component of the preceding paragraph can optionally include additionally and or alternatively any one or more of the following features configurations and or additional components 

In a further embodiment of the foregoing component the cooling passage can join the first feed cavity along a downstream portion of the first cavity wall.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the cooling passage can join the first feed cavity along an upstream portion of the first cavity wall.

In a further embodiment of any of the foregoing assemblies the cooling passage can join the first feed cavity along a side portion of the first cavity wall.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

