---

title: Virtual control panels using short-range communication
abstract: In general, techniques and systems for controlling a parameter of a target device are described. In one example, a method includes obtaining, by a computing device, control information from an identification device located remote from a target device, wherein the control information is associated with the target device, and, responsive to obtaining the control information, displaying a control panel at a display of the computing device, wherein the control panel comprises at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the target device. The method may also include receiving, by the computing device, an adjustment to the at least one parameter of the control panel, and responsive to receiving the adjustment, transmitting adjustment information to a receiver associated with the target device, wherein the adjustment information is representative of the adjustment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504008&OS=08504008&RS=08504008
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08504008
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 594 221 filed Feb. 2 2012 the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A user may interact with applications executing on a computing device. For instance a user may install view or delete an application on a computing device.

In some instances a user may use a mobile computing device e.g. mobile phone tablet computer smart phone or the like to communicate with other devices or systems. For instance a user may transmit information from the mobile computing device to a remote computing device.

In one example a method includes obtaining by a computing device control information from an identification device located remote from a target device wherein the control information is associated with the target device responsive to obtaining the control information displaying a control panel at a display of the computing device wherein the control panel comprises at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the target device receiving by the computing device an adjustment to the at least one parameter of the control panel and responsive to receiving the adjustment transmitting adjustment information to a receiver associated with the target device wherein the adjustment information is representative of the adjustment.

In another example a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions that cause one or more processors of a computing device to perform operations including obtaining control information from an identification device located remote from a target device wherein the control information is associated with the target device responsive to obtaining the control information displaying a control panel at a display of the computing device wherein the control panel comprises at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the target device receiving an adjustment to the at least one parameter of the control panel and responsive to receiving the adjustment transmitting adjustment information to a receiver associated with the target device wherein the adjustment information is representative of the adjustment.

In another example a mobile computing device includes a near field communication module configured to obtain control information from an identification device located remote from a target device wherein the control information is associated with the target device and a processor. The processor is configured to responsive to obtaining the control information display a control panel at a display of the mobile computing device wherein the control panel comprises at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the target device receive an adjustment to the at least one parameter of the control panel and responsive to receiving the adjustment transmit adjustment information to a receiver associated with the target device wherein the adjustment information is representative of the adjustment.

The details of one or more aspects of this disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In general this disclosure is directed to techniques for controlling a target device in response to obtaining control information from an identification device. Typically a target device e.g. an entertainment system or room lighting control system may be controlled using one or more controllers e.g. a dial slider or button coupled to the target device or a wireless remote control that adjust one or more parameters of the target device. However wired controllers may require wires to be mounted between the controller and the target device and wireless controllers still require a power cable or battery power source. Universal wireless remote controls may also require complicated initial configuration and setup steps that may be manually performed by a user or performed using another device e.g. a computing device . Due to these example constraints conventional controllers may be inconvenient or impossible to install at some desired locations within a room building or other space.

Techniques of this disclosure may in various instances enable a computing device e.g. a mobile device to obtain information from an identification device e.g. a passive near field communication device or an optical barcode to control a parameter of a target device. The parameter may define at least a portion of the operation of the target device. The identification device may be located remote from the target device. For example the identification device may be located on or within a wall table chair window or any other surface desired by the user. Although not necessary an information device may be labeled to visually identify the target device and or the control parameter to allow the user to approach the desired identification device. In response to obtaining control information from the identification device the computing device may automatically display a control panel e.g. a virtual control panel associated with the target device. The control panel may include one or more input mechanisms for receiving an adjustment to at least one parameter of the target device. In this manner the user may not need to navigate an operating system or multiple menus before being able to view the control panel. In addition the control panel may provide additional control functionality than would be otherwise available with a hardwired control.

The computing device may display information associated with multiple target devices. For example the computing device may display two or more control panels stacked or otherwise positioned together for controlling their respective target devices. For example the computing device may display one control panel in response to obtaining control information from one identification device. In response to obtaining additional control information from another identification device the computing device may stack a second control panel with the first control panel. Alternatively the computing device may replace the first control panel with the second control panel or merge the parameters of both control panels into a single control panel with one or more common parameters.

In addition the computing device may use one or more sensors to detect movement of the computing device. The computing device may utilize this movement to control one or more aspects of the control panel. For example the computing device may scroll to different portions of a control panel larger than the computing device display in response to movement of the computing device. In other examples the computing device may receive an adjustment to a parameter of the control panel in the form of the detected movement of the computing device. In some examples the computing device may also configure parameters of the control panel based on a set of user preferences. In this manner the computing device may customize the control environment available to the user for controlling one or more target devices.

Computing device may include a short range communication module not shown capable of initiating wireless communication with identification device over a relatively short distance. For example this short distance may be less than approximately 10 meters less than 1 meter less than 10 centimeters or even less than 2.5 centimeters. In some examples computing device may initiate communication with identification device when computing device is within 5 centimeters of the identification device. In this example a user may place computing device directly over or even touching identification device such that computing device may communicate with the identification device at that particular location of computing device . The short distance required for short range communication may be selected based on the application of identification devices . In other words shorter distances may be used when identification devices are closer together to so that each of the identification devices may be uniquely distinguishable from each other. In addition the user may benefit from being aware that control information may be obtained from an identification device . For example computing device may request that the user confirm that short range communication is to occur e.g. receive a confirmation input .

In some examples computing device may be moved from identification device to communicate with a different identification device that may represent a different parameter for target device . Although identification device is generally described herein as a short range communication device e.g. a near field communication device identification device may provide control information in alternative mediums. For example identification device may be a visual indicator e.g. an optical tag or optical barcode such as a bar code a Quick Response QR code or a circular bar code e.g. a ShotCode . Alternative optical tags may include a DataMatrix tag an Aztec code an EZcode a High Capacity Color Barcode HCCB or a MaxiCode. Computing device may then utilize a camera or other such sensor to obtain control information from identification device in the form of a graphic or other visual indicator.

As shown in identification device may be any device that is placed in a location at which computing device may obtain control information . For example identification device may be placed adhered or otherwise attached to a wall window furniture or device associated with target device . Identification device may have information associated with the parameter and or target device printed on a surface of the identification device. Alternatively information may be printed on a sticker or other media that is attached to identification device . Although identification device may be provided alone identification device may be provided with one or more additional identification devices that each provide control information regarding different parameters that control target device . Since each identification device may be relatively simple and configured to communicate with any number of computing devices computing device may be capable of establishing communication with hundreds thousands or even millions of different identification devices. In addition identification device may provide control information to two or more different computing devices .

As described herein identification device may be capable of short range communication. One example of short range communication is near field communication NFC . NFC communication can occur between two devices in different modes. For example computing device may operate in at least two different modes to communicate with identification device using NFC. For example computing device and identification device may be configured to operate in a passive mode and an active mode of operation. In an active mode of operation computing device may generate a first alternating magnetic field that is received by one of identification device in physical proximity to computing device . In response identification device may generate a second alternating magnetic field that is received by computing device . In this way data may be communicated between computing device and identification device such as using peer to peer communication. In the active mode computing device may also power or activate a passive device to retrieve data from the passive device as further described below. In this manner identification device may include passive near field communication hardware.

In a passive mode of operation load modulation techniques may be employed to facilitate data communication between computing device and identification device . In a passive mode identification device does not actively generate an alternating magnetic field in response to the alternating magnetic field of computing device but only as a result of the induced voltage and applied load at the receiver or antenna of identification device . Instead identification device may include electrical hardware e.g. an NFC module that generates a change in impedance in response to the alternating magnetic field generated by computing device . For example computing device may generate an alternating magnetic field that is received by identification device . Electrical hardware in identification device may generate a change in impedance in response to the alternating magnetic field. The change in impedance may be detected by the NFC module of computing device . In this way load modulation techniques may be used by computing device to obtain control information from each of identification device . In other words computing device may obtain control information from identification device but identification device would not receive any data from computing device in the passive mode. Other well known modulation techniques including phase modulation and or amplitude modulation of the applied signal resulting from load modulation may also be employed to facilitate data communication between computing device and identification device in other examples.

Generally identification device may operate in passive mode for NFC communication. In passive mode identification device may be referred to as NFC tags or NFC targets. In other words computing device may include active NFC hardware and identification device may include passive NFC hardware. Since a passive identification device do not need a dedicated power supply identification device may be placed in a variety of locations on any surface or even as part of smaller items. For example identification device may be embodied as a sticker or adhesive tag that is placed on the wall of a room a window a countertop furniture or any other surface. In addition identification device may also be placed behind certain surfaces in some examples. Passive identification device may also be less expensive and more difficult to corrupt with computing device . In this manner identification device may include electrical hardware that generates a change in impedance in response to an alternating magnetic field. However identification device may be another computing device in other examples. For example identification device may each be a computing device that operates in a passive NFC mode and or an active NFC mode. In other words identification device may include active NFC hardware in other examples. This active NFC hardware may be configured to emulate passive NFC hardware or participate in active near field communication.

In an example of a passive identification device identification device may deliver control information to computing device in response to receiving an alternating magnetic field generated by the NFC module of computing device . In other words control information may be data stored on identification device . Upon receiving the alternating magnetic field e.g. receiving power sufficient to transmit data computing device may receive control information . In this manner identification device may only be capable of delivering or sending control information when computing device is within close physical proximity to each respective identification device . Although the user may physically touch bump or tap computing device to identification device computing device may be capable of receiving control information from identification device without physically touching identification device .

Control information may include any information related to controlling the operation of target device . For example control information may include information identifying target device and at least one parameter that at least partially controls the operation of target device . In some examples control information may identify two or more parameters for controlling at least a portion of target device . Although control information may include information associated with a control panel associated with target device computing device and or remote server may identify aspects of an appropriate control panel based on the identification of a parameter and or target device . For example computing device and or remote database may store user preferences related to the arrangement of parameters in the control panel.

In some examples computing device may receive adjustments to one or more parameter of a control panel via user interaction with the control panel displayed on user interface . For example the control panel may receive input via user interface . In other examples computing device may receive adjustments to one or more parameter of the control panel via movement of computing device . For example different physical movements of computing device may control the adjustment of the values of respective parameters displayed in the control panel. In another example control information may merely include information identifying the parameter of target device such that remote database stores an association between the parameter and the appropriate target device . Control information may in other examples provide additional information related to the location of identification device the location of target device maximum and minimum values for the identified parameter or any other information related to adjusting a parameter of target device with computing device or the displayed control panel.

Control information may in some examples be in the form of a uniform resource locator URL that includes a domain associated with identification device and or target device and an identifier for the control panel and or specific parameters that will be adjusted by computing device for example. An example URL may include the domain of remote server a destination of the service that controls target device an identifier of the specific target control device . This example URL may take the form of http www.domain.com homecontrol targetdevice12345. The domain may be the domain of remote server homecontrol may be the name of the web based service e.g. a cloud based control service that controls target device and targetdevice12345 may be the identifier of the specific target device that will be controlled. In some examples additional identifiers may be used to identify specific parameters of target device and or selected characteristics of the control panel associated with control information . Computing device may transmit adjustment information associated with adjustment input received by the control panel and or movement in the form of data generated by moving computing device in space. In other examples the adjustment information may be in the form of accelerometer output values or changes to sensor output added to the end of the URL of control information . In some examples this data may be transmitted as data directly to remote server or directly to target device via receiver . A URL or uniform resource name URN may be examples of a uniform resource identifier URI . In this manner control information may be in the form of a URI in other examples. A URI may be a string of characters and or numerals used to identify a name or a resource over a network.

In other examples control information may merely include a unique identifier that is unique to identification device . Computing device or remote database may store an association between the unique identifier and any information that allows computing device to control target device e.g. information that identifies target device and the control panel . In this manner control information may not include information directly identifying target device and the parameter.

Control information may be stored in a memory or other circuit of identification device or printed in the form of a visual indication by the user of computing device the user of target device or by a manufacturer or professional with knowledge of target device . For example the user may purchase identification device or multiple identification devices with control information pre stored on identification device . Identification device with pre stored control information may be purchased with target device . Identification device may thus be packaged with target device and configured with control information from the manufacturer. Alternatively a distributor salesperson or technician may write control information to identification device e.g. via NFC or otherwise configured or print identification device such that computing device may obtain control information from identification device . In other examples computing device or a different computing device may be used by a user to store control information onto identification device . Control information may be downloaded from remote server or another networked device via network . Alternatively computing device may generate control information based on input from the user or information received from target device . For example control information may include user preferences associated with the control panel to be displayed in response to obtaining control information .

In one example computing device may transmit control information to remote server via receiver and network upon obtaining or otherwise receiving control information from identification device . In this manner computing device may not interpret or otherwise utilize control information directly. Instead remote server may interpret control information and use adjustment information transmitted from computing device to return information related to the control panel and adjust the parameter of target device . Remote server may also transmit the adjusted parameter or any other information related to control information the parameter or target device to computing device .

However in some examples computing device may be configured to interpret control information such that computing device may present the appropriate control panel or any other information associated with control information to the user via user interface . In this example computing device may not require remote server to present one or more pieces of information from control information . For example user interface of computing device may present the control panel with an identification of target device one or more parameters and or the web based service associated with remote server . In addition control information may include one or more commands interpretable by one or more processors of computing device . For example one command may instruct a processor to transmit control information to remote server . Another command may instruct a processor to open and or execute an application e.g. an application that includes a control panel associated with control of the parameter of control information . The application may manage communication between computing device and remote server and or target device manage adjustment information and or control the presentation of one or more control panels associated with control information received from one or more identification devices .

In one example once computing device obtains control information from identification device computing device may transmit control information to remote server using receiver and network . Network may be any wired or wireless network that allows computing device to access another computing device and or the Internet. For example computing device may connect to network to transmit control information to remote server . Remote server may then access remote database to identify the particular target device e.g. an Internet Protocol address or other communication information and the particular parameter identified by control information . Remote server may then transmit via network parameter information e.g. information related to the control panel to computing device e.g. the type of parameter a name of target device and the current value of the parameter and or initiate communication with target device in anticipation of adjusting the identified parameter.

When computing device receives the parameter information from remote server computing device may display or otherwise present one or more parameters to the user in the control panel. In one example computing device may use user interface to present control panels such as control panels and of . However computing device may additionally or alternatively use other output devices to present visual audio or even tactile feedback to the user according to the parameter information. In addition computing device may receive adjustments to the parameter value in response to remote server adjusting the parameter value based on a function of the movement information transmitted by computing device . In this manner the parameter value may be based on a function or relationship e.g. a linear logarithmic discrete polynomial or other equation between the parameter value and the movement information.

Alternative to transmitting adjustment information to remote server computing device may transmit the adjustment information directly to target device via receiver . Receiver may be a device hardwired or wirelessly coupled to target device . For example receiver may be an infrared or radio frequency receiver that receives a signal from computing device . In this manner computing device may directly communicate with target device for adjusting the value of a desired parameter of the displayed control panel.

In addition to transmitting control information to remote server computing device may also transmit movement information to remote server when the adjustment to a parameter occurs with computing device movement. Alternatively the detected movement may be used internally by computing device to directly adjust the value of the parameter without remote server . Movement information may include any detection sensed data or measurements representative of the physical movement of computing device . In order to adjust the parameter identified by identification device the user of computing device may physically move computing device . The user may move computing device whenever the user desires to change or adjust the parameter of control information . The control panel may indicate when a parameter is configured to be adjusted based on movement of computing device . The physical movement of computing device may be a tilt or rotation of computing device a linear movement of computing device . Although the exact movement of computing device may not be purely linear or purely rotational computing device may still detect the movement for the identified parameter.

Computing device may sense or detect this physical movement using one or more sensors within computing device . These one or more sensors may include an accelerometer gyroscope compass and camera. For example a gyroscope may sense rotation of computing device about an axis orthogonal to the plane of user interface e.g. an axis into user interface . In another example an accelerometer may sense lateral or vertical motion of computing device . A visual indication on identification device or information in the displayed control panel may notify the user of computing device which movement can be used to control the parameter of target device . In other examples computing device may indicate how the user can move computing device to adjust the parameter and operation of target device .

The magnitude of the sensed or detected movement of computing device may determine the magnitude of the adjustment of the parameter of target device . The sensed movement may be the difference between two measured values from the output of the one or more sensors. In some examples computing device may determine the difference between the measured values to calculate the magnitude of the movement in a useable unit e.g. degrees of rotation or centimeters of movement . This magnitude may then be sent as movement information to remote server . In other examples computing device may transmit two or more measured values from a sensor as the movement information. In other words remote server may perform any calculations and or calibration of the measured values.

Once remote server receives the movement information from computing device remote server may calculate the appropriate adjustment to the value of the parameter identified by control information . Remote server may then transmit the adjusted value to target device to affect the operation of target device . In addition remote server may transmit the adjusted value of the parameter to computing device for presentation to the user via user interface . In alternative examples computing device may directly determine the adjusted value of the parameter based on instructions received from remote server for determined the value of the parameter. Computing device may thus determine the adjusted value of the parameter present the adjusted value to the user via user interface and transmit the adjusted value to remote server such that remote server may control target device to adjust the value of the parameter. In some examples computing device may directly transmit the adjusted parameter value to target device .

In this manner the user may adjust the parameter of target device without providing input to computing device via user interface . Instead the user may hold computing device in a hand and move computing device in space to adjust the value of the parameter. This movement technique may facilitate control of target device when using buttons touch screens or other input mechanisms may not be desired by the user. However these other input mechanisms may also be used with the control panel. In addition the movement technique may reduce the amount of time needed to adjust a parameter by reducing or eliminating the navigation of menus or other interfaces to control one or more different target devices. In other words the user may adjust the intended parameter of target device by placing computing device in close proximity to identification device and then moving computing device in the appropriate fashion to adjust the parameter. The displayed control panel may provide feedback regarding the magnitude to which the value of the parameter was adjusted.

One or more identification devices may be disposed at various locations around a room a house an office a building or any other space associated with target device . Multiple identification devices may even be provided for the same parameter of the same target device or different parameters of the same target device . In this manner the user may control one or more parameters at different locations e.g. at any location of an identification device . In some examples control information from one identification device may identify two or more parameters of a control panel. Different input mechanisms and or different movements of computing device may be used to adjust respective parameters. For example computing device may detect rotation of computing device for adjusting a volume parameter and linear movement of computing device for changing between songs being played by target device . Identification device may visual indicate which parameters are adjustable and what movements are required to adjust the respective parameters. Alternatively user interface may present the instructions for adjusting the parameters to the user via the displayed control panel. In most examples control information and the movement information transmitted to remote server may allow target device to be managed or otherwise controlled by a central server e.g. remote server a central database e.g. remote database or any web based resource or service.

User interface may include an input device and an output device so that the user can communicate with computing device . In one example user interface may be a touch screen interface. In other examples user interface may include a display and one or more buttons pads joysticks mice or any other device capable of turning user actions into electrical signals that control computing device . In addition computing device may include one or more microphones speakers cameras or tactile feedback devices to deliver information to the user or receive information. In any example the user may interact with user interface during the adjustment of the parameter when needed. For example user interface may present a parameter and or adjustment input mechanism to the user within a displayed control panel.

In some examples the control of target device may be managed by a service. This service may be internet based and accessed by the user using an application web browser or any other user interface that enables the user to interact with the service. In some cases the service may be accessed through a standalone application that is launched in response to obtaining control information and operates with the operating system of computing device . Alternatively the application may be a sub routine built into an operating system running on computing device . In any case computing device may access the service to transmit control information and movement information to the service e.g. remote server . The service may directly control target device by transmitting parameter adjustments to target device according to inputs received by computing device e.g. detected movement or input via a displayed control panel . Although a standalone application may be used to access the services the operating system may include the required functionality to directly interface with the control service e.g. directly calling application programming interfaces APIs of the service with the operating system of computing device .

Computing device may also include techniques to handle errors when obtaining control information transmitting the obtained control information and or receiving the parameter information from remote server . For example computing device may not recognize or be able to interpret control information received from identification device . In this event computing device may prompt the user via user interface to address this error in control information . For example user interface may prompt the user to reposition computing device near identification device or enable short range communication of computing device if the feature is not enabled.

Remote server and remote database may each include one or more servers or databases respectively. In this manner remote server and remote database may be embodied as any hardware necessary to receive control information store the associations between control information and target device or transmit information to computing device over network . Remote server may include one or more desktop computers mainframes minicomputers or other computing devices capable of executing computer instructions on one or more processors and storing data. Remote database may include one or more memories repositories hard disks or any other data storage device. In some examples remote database may be included within remote server .

Remote server may connect to network . Network may be embodied as one or more of the Internet a wireless network a wired network a cellular network or a fiber optic network. In other words network may be any data communication protocol that facilitates data between two or more devices.

In some examples remote database may include Relational Database Management System RDBMS software. In one example remote database may be a relational database and accessed using a Structured Query Language SQL interface that is well known in the art. Remote database may alternatively be stored on a separate networked computing device and accessed by remote server through a network interface or system bus. Remote database may in other examples be an Object Database Management System ODBMS Online Analytical Processing OLAP database or other suitable data management system.

Generally this disclosure is directed to displaying virtual control panels on a computing device in response to obtaining control information from an identification device remote from a target device that will be controlled. In one example computing device may obtain control information from identification device located remote from target device wherein control information is associated with the target device. Responsive to obtaining control information computing device may display a control panel at a display of computing device wherein the control panel may include at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of target device . Computing device may also receive an adjustment to the at least one parameter of the control panel. This adjustment may be in the form of an input via the control panel and or detected movement of computing device . Responsive to receiving the adjustment computing device may transmit adjustment information to receiver associated with target device . The adjustment information may be representative of the adjustment. In other examples a computer readable medium may instruct one or more processors to perform one or more of these acts.

In some examples computing device may obtain control information from different identification devices . For example in addition to obtaining control information from a first identification device computing device may then obtain additional control information from a second identification device e.g. similar to identification device located remote from a second target device e.g. a device similar to target device . Each identification device may provide control information associated with a respective target device. In some examples two different identification devices may provide control information associated with a respective function of a single target device. For example one identification device may provide control information associated with a volume control of the target device and another identification device may provide control information associated with a channel control for the same target device. In this manner computing device may obtain control information to control multiple functions from a single target device. In response to obtaining additional information computing device may perform one or more operations with regard to control panels displayed at computing device .

In one example the control panel may include at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the first target device and at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the second target device. A single control panel may thus include parameters for different target devices. Alternatively the single control panel may include different parameters each obtained from different identification devices associated with the same target device. In other examples computing device may separate the control panel into sub panels each associated with a separate target device. In this manner computing device may display a first control sub panel that includes at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the first target device and a second control sub panel that includes at least one parameter that at least partially defines operation of the second target device. In this manner computing device may stack or otherwise display multiple control panels at the same time.

In some examples computing device may display the first control sub panel adjacent to the second control at the display. The sub panels may be displayed horizontally adjacent vertically adjacent or in some other configuration. If the sub panels do not fit entirely within the display of user interface the user may scroll to view other portions of the non displayed subpanel. In other examples the user may define how the sub panels are displayed. Computing device may receive a touch input from the display wherein the touch input defines a spatial relationship between the first control sub panel and the second control sub panel at the display. In other words the user may select locations for a specific sub panel or drag a desired sub panel to a desired location.

The parameters of multiple target devices may be managed in different manners. In one example computing device may compare a plurality of parameters associated with the first target device and a plurality of parameters associated with the second target device. Computing device may then identify at least one parameter common to both the first target device and the second target device. Computing device may select one of the first target device or the second target device to be controlled with the common parameter and display the common parameter on the control panel. Computing device may select which target device to be controlled with the common parameter based on stored user preferences the most recent control information received by computing device a configuration of one of the target devices or any other factors.

In addition computing device may consolidate inputs for a common parameter. For example computing device may identify a parameter common to both the first target device and the second target device map a single input mechanism to the common parameter for each of the first target device and the second target device and display the single input mechanism on the control panel. This single input mechanism may thus be used to receive an adjustment to both parameters of the target devices with a single action from the user.

In other examples computing device may not combine or stack multiple control panels. Instead computing device may replace the first control panel with a second control panel associated with the second target device in response to obtaining control information from the second target device. Since the user may be finished controlling the first target device when the control information for the second target device is obtained replacing the first control panel may simplify the control panel arrangement for the user. Alternatively computing device may display the second or new control panel on a different screen of user interface to allow the user to navigate between control panels associated with obtained control information .

In other examples a control panel may include too may inputs parameters or other features such that the control panel is displayable within the resolution of the display of user interface . Computing device may allow the user to scroll between different portions of these oversized control panels. In one example computing device may display a first portion of the control panel with the remainder of the display not viewable to the user. Computing device may then detect movement of computing device in a first direction and responsive to the movement scroll the control panel in a second direction opposite the first direction to display a second portion of the control panel. In this manner moving computing device to display another portion of the control panel may be similar to placing user interface over the desired portion of a virtual control panel. In some examples computing device may display a scroll icon that indicates a portion of the control panel is not currently displayed at the display. Alternative to using computing device movement computing device may receive touch input that moves the control panel or other scrolling input.

The user may provide varying inputs to computing device to adjust a value of a parameter provided by a control panel. In one example computing device may receive an adjustment input via the control panel at the display. The adjustment input may be depressing a button portion of a touch screen or other input for the parameter. Alternatively computing device may receive the adjustment to the parameter by using a sensor to detect movement of computing device . The sensor may be an accelerometer gyroscope compass or any other movement detecting sensor. Computing device may then determine the adjustment to the at least one parameter as a function of the detected movement. For example computing device may scale the output of the sensor to the appropriate value of the parameter.

The displayed control panel may be a default control panel with preset parameters orientations and dimensions. In other examples the control panel may be configured with stored user preferences. The user preferences may be stored in a memory of computing device identification device and or remote server . Computing device may thus configure the at least one parameter based on a set of user preferences and display the control panel according to the configuration. For example the control panel may be configured for right or left handedness. Certain adjustment inputs for parameters may be positioned on the left or right side of user interface and the user s handedness may be used to configure the control panel.

In some examples computing device may display the control panel even while computing device is in a passcode locked state. In this manner the user may not need to enter an authenticated passcode to adjust a parameter of target device . Alternatively one or more security measures may be implemented to restrict control of target device . For example computing device may responsive to obtaining the control information present a passcode input screen at the display e.g. user interface of computing device . Computing device may then receive a passcode input from a user via the passcode input screen and responsive to receiving the passcode input display the control panel at the display. Control information information stored in a memory of computing device and or information stored in remote database may require the passcode prior to displaying the control panel. In addition control information may be encrypted in some examples. Computing device may thus be configured to decrypt control information prior to displaying the control panel and or adjusting a parameter.

As described herein remote server may be utilized to control target device . In this manner receiver may be part of a network access point that communicates the adjustment to a networked device e.g. remote server via network . Remote server may then control target device according to the adjustment received by computing device . In some examples control information may include a URI e.g. a uniform resource locator URL configured to direct a browser of computing device to a web based service associated with remote server . The URL may include a code that identifies the parameter and or target device . In other examples computing device may launch a control application that executes on computing device in response to obtaining control information . The control application may at least partially manage the control panel and or the adjustment of one or more parameters.

Control information may be obtained using near field communication NFC . In this manner identification device may include circuitry required to operate identification device as a passive or active NFC device. Computing device may be configured to write control information to identification device in some examples. In other examples computing device may obtain control information from an optical code. The optical code may be a bar code quick resource code or any other unique visual pattern that may be interpreted by computing device to control target device . These optical codes may also be produced by the user using a printer in some examples. In some examples identification device may be a sticker tag coaster relatively flat device or any other package capable of performing the functions described herein. Identification device may be configured to blend into the surface on which it is disposed or be otherwise visual innocuous. For example identification device may be painted the same color as the wall it is disposed.

Target device may be at least one of a media system a lighting system a sound system a heating system or a security system. In addition target device may include receiver in some examples. Therefore a control parameter displayed in a control panel may include at least one of a volume control a channel control a light intensity control a temperature control a security system control a motor control a fan control a timer e.g. an on timer or an off timer or a toggle control e.g. a garage door opener or any other parameter. Any other parameter of a controllable device may also be configured to be controlled using a control panel displayed by computing device in response to obtaining control information .

The movement information used by remote server or computing device in some examples to adjust the value of a parameter or scroll to different portions of a control panel may be generated by computing device . One or more sensors housed by computing device or otherwise coupled to computing device may sense or detect physical movement of computing device caused by the user. In this manner the detected movement may be related to a magnitude change in the parameter of target device . In other words larger movements of computing device may correspond to a greater change in the value of the parameter. As described herein the detected movement may be a change between two measured values from one or more sensors. Computing device may generate the movement information e.g. adjustment information with merely the measured values from the sensor or with a calculated absolute movement value. Remote server may then translate the movement information into an adjustment to the parameter value of control information . Remote sever may then transmit the adjusted parameter value to target device to control the operation of target device and in some examples transmit the adjusted parameter value to computing device for presentation to the user as feedback for the physical movement.

Many different movements of computing device may be detected and used to adjust the parameter value for controlling target device . For example computing device may detect rotation or tilt linear movement e.g. translation or any other combination of movements. In one example computing device may detect a tilt angle between a first measurement and a second measurement of the sensor. The tilt angle may be representative of a rotation about an axis orthogonal to the computing device. In other examples the tilt angle may be a measure of the rotation of computing device about an axis orthogonal to user interface . This tilt angle may simulate adjustment of an analog dial or similar input mechanism for controlling a device.

The first measurement for detecting the tilt angle may be taken upon obtaining control information or otherwise receiving an input from the user via a control panel indicating the adjustment is to begin. The second measurement may then be the latest or most current measurement from the sensor. The difference between the first and second measurements may thus be used to determine the tilt angle for adjusting the value of the parameter. In another example the first and second measurements may represent the sensor output at consecutive sampling periods. In other words computing device may sample the output from the sensor at a predetermined frequency. The second measurement may be the most recent measurement and the first measurement may be the previous measurement. As the sensor output is sampled the differences between consecutive first and second measurements may be summed during the adjustment period to provide an up to date adjustment to the parameter value. In this manner computing device may transmit subsequent measurements as each measurement is detected or at a separate transmission frequency. In one example computing device may transmit updated movement information whenever the difference between the first and second measurements is non zero e.g. the user has requested a change to the parameter value by moving computing device .

The sample rate of the output of the one or more sensors for detecting movement may generally be between approximately 1.0 Hz and approximately 1000 Hz. However the sample rate may be lower or higher than that range in some examples. In other examples the sample rate may be between approximately 5.0 Hz and 10 Hz. The sample rate may be selected based on hardware limitations and or power use considerations. For example the sample rate may be set to detect movement of computing device without consuming more power than necessary. In other examples the sample rate may be set based on the type of movement e.g. rotation vs. linear movement and or user preferences.

Computing device may detect the tilt angle e.g. the rotation from the user using a variety of sensors and methods. For example computing device may utilize one or more accelerometers that measure an orientation of computing device with respect to gravity. The one or more accelerometers may be a one two or three axis accelerometer. Alternatively computing device may include two or more different accelerometers for measuring the relative rotation of computing device . The tilt angle may be determined by measuring the angle between two vectors in time. The angle may be the absolute angle between the vectors. However the tilt angle may alternatively be the angle using only two axes in the plane of user interface . In other examples an angle between two vectors in three dimensions may be only determined within a specific place e.g. the plane of user interface or computing device . In this manner computing device may determine the tilt angle without distortion from undesired tilt outside of the plane desired for adjusting the parameter. In some examples computing device may use an accelerometer to detect the tilt angle whenever computing device oriented vertical with respect to the ground.

In another example computing device may detect the tilt angle by measuring an orientation of computing device with respect to earth s magnetic field. Computing device may include a sensor in the form of a compass configured to detect the surrounding magnetic field. For the compass to function as sensor to detect the tilt angle the user may orient computing device in a position approximately parallel to the ground i.e. the earth . Rotation of computing device may then occur generally in the plane parallel to the ground. In some examples computing device may use the compass to detect the tilt angle whenever computing device oriented parallel to the ground.

In other examples computing device may detect the tilt angle by measuring an angular acceleration of computing device . Computing device may include one or more gyroscopes or other sensors configured to detect the angular acceleration of computing device . The detected angular acceleration of computing device may be used to identify the direction and magnitude of the rotation of computing device . For example double integrating the angular acceleration may result in the angular distance e.g. the tilt angle computing device moved between subsequent measurements. Single integration of the angular acceleration may yield an angular velocity that may be used to vary the rate at which the parameter is adjusted. In other words higher angular velocities may indicate that the user desires to make a larger magnitude change in the parameter value. Remote sever may thus increase the parameter value change per unit of angular distance. Conversely lower angular velocities may indicate that the user desires to make more fine adjustments to the parameter. Remote sever may thus decrease the parameter value change per unit of angular distance. In this manner computing device and or remote server may provide an adaptive adjustment rate reflective of the detected rotational rate of computing device . This adaptive adjustment rate may be applicable to any technique for detecting movement of computing device e.g. rotational or linear movement .

In other examples computing device may detect linear movement of computing device to adjust the value of the parameter. For example computing device may include an accelerometer or other sensor that measures one or more accelerations of computing device . Computing device and or remote server may then calculate a distance and direction computing device was moved between a first measurement and a second measurement. For example computing device may take the double integral of the acceleration measured over a selected time period to calculate the distance computing device was moved through space. In some examples computing device may correct the calculated distance to account for movement out of the plane of user interface if computing device is to move only left right up or down.

In this manner the detected movement may be movement detected from an accelerometer or other linear movement sensors. The accelerometer may include one or more three axis accelerometers. In one example computing device may measure accelerations of computing device after obtaining control information and calculate the distance and direction computing device was moved between subsequent measurements after obtaining control information . The distance computing device has been moved may be calculated by double integration of the accelerometer measurements. In addition the direction may be determined integrating the acceleration measurements from the previous identification device and determining a speed vector in two or three dimensions.

In some alternative examples computing device may detect movement of computing device by capturing a plurality of images with a sensor of the computing device. The sensor may be an image sensor disposed on a surface of computing device that faces identification device and the surface on which identification device is located e.g. a rear facing camera . From the captured images computing device may calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved from the detected identification device based on a rate and direction one or more pixels have moved between the captured images. Computing device may in one example analyze the captured images identify common features between the images e.g. common groups of pixels count the number of pixel changes between each image and estimate the movement of computing device based on the number of counted pixels. Computing device may also employ other algorithms selected to convert feature movement between images to distance moved. These algorithms may incorporate additional data such as focal length to calibrate the distance per pixel calculation. In other words larger focal lengths in the images may indicate a larger coverage length of the image for each pixel.

In addition computing device may calculate a direction that computing device has moved based on how many pixels the structures in the images moved in two dimensions. This vector may indicate an angle with respect to identification device . Over multiple images computing device may add the vectors of each change in the images to determine a resulting movement of computing device . This resulting movement both direction and distance may be transmitted by computing device to remote sever via network such that remote server can determine the movement of computing device and the adjustment to the value of the identified parameter of control information .

Since the target device may be controlled by remote server based on the physical movement of computing device computing device may not be able to interpret control information to identify what adjustment will be made to the parameter of target device . Therefore computing device may receive the adjusted value of the parameter from remote server after the adjustment is made. In other words remote server may transmit the adjusted value to computing device via network after the adjustment has been made or upon determining the adjusted value of the control parameter. Computing device may also present the adjusted value of the control parameter using user interface . Therefore the user of computing device may receive feedback as to how the control parameter has changed based on the movement of computing device .

In some examples any physical movement of computing device detected after obtaining control information may be used to adjust the value of the identified parameter. Computing device may stop transmitting movement information to remote server e.g. terminate the adjustment of the parameter upon losing communication with identification device e.g. no longer able to obtain control information from identification device . In other examples computing device may stop transmitting movement information to remote server in response to receiving a cancel input from the user via user interface that closes the control panel. In this manner the user may take computing device anywhere to adjust the parameter value after obtaining control information . In other examples computing device may cancel adjustment after a predetermined elapsed time and or an elapsed time from the last detected movement of computing device .

Alternatively the movement information transmitted by computing device to remote server for adjusting the value of the parameter may only include detected movement selected by the user. For example computing device may receive a clutch input during the detection of movements. The clutch input may include depressing a button or touching a defined region of user interface . For example the button for the clutch may be a side switch on the side of computing device for manipulation when computing device is gripped by a hand of the user. In another example the button may be a pressure sensor disposed along a side of the housing of computing device . The pressure sensor may detect when the user squeezes computing device beyond a threshold that is representative of the clutch input. Initiation of the clutch input may define the first measurement and termination of the clutch input may define the second measurement of the sensor. In other words only movements detected when the clutch input is selected may be used to adjust the parameter value. The clutch input may allow the user more control over how to adjust the parameter value.

The clutch input may allow the user to move computing device back and forth while adding only those movements in a certain direction. In other words computing device may be subject to multiple passes through a movement range to further increase or further decrease the value of the parameter. For example the user may provide the clutch input during a clockwise rotation of computing device terminate the clutch input and rotate computing device counter clockwise then provide the clutch input a second time during a subsequent clockwise rotation. In this example the parameter value would only be adjusted during the clockwise rotations e.g. adding the second clockwise rotation to the value without subtracting the intermediary counter clockwise rotation . The clutch input may need to be continually provided to adjust the parameter value with the movement during the clutch input. Alternatively the clutch input may be provided once to start the adjustment and provided a second time to terminate the adjustment.

In other examples computing device may deliver an audio feedback to a user based on a magnitude of the detected physical movement. For example computing device may provide one or more beeps or other sounds to the user in response to detecting the movement and or the adjusted value of the parameter from remote server . In addition computing device may provide tactile feedback e.g. vibrations to the user to indicate detected movements magnitude of the movement and or adjustments to the parameter.

Various aspects of the disclosure may be operable only when the user has explicitly enabled such functionality. In addition various aspects of the disclosure may be disabled by the user. Thus a user may elect to prevent computing device from transmitting control information and or movement information to remote server or receive parameter information directly from remote server . More generally privacy controls may be applied to all aspects of the disclosure based on a user s privacy preferences to honor the user s privacy preferences for utilizing the functionality described in this disclosure.

As shown in the specific example of computing device includes one or more processors memory a network interface one or more storage devices user interface battery GPS device short range communication device accelerometer and camera . Computing device also includes an operating system which may include modules and or applications that are executable by processors and computing device . Computing device in one example further includes one or more applications . One or more applications are also executable by computing device . Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

Processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within computing device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . These instructions may define or otherwise control the operation of operating system and applications .

Memory in one example is configured to store information within computing device during operation. Memory in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples memory is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of memory is not long term storage. Memory in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples memory is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Memory in one example is used by software or applications running on computing device e.g. one or more of applications to temporarily store information during program execution.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

Computing device in some examples also includes a network interface . Computing device in one example utilizes network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as network in . Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices as well as USB. In some examples computing device utilizes network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device not shown such as a server mobile phone or other networked computing device.

Computing device in one example also includes one or more user interfaces . User interface may be an example of user interface described in . User interface may be configured to receive input from a user e.g. tactile audio or video feedback . User interface may include a touch sensitive and or a presence sensitive screen mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples user interface includes a touch sensitive screen mouse keyboard microphone or camera.

User interface may also include combined or separate from input devices output devices. In this manner user interface may be configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio or video stimuli. In one example user interface may include a touch sensitive screen sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. In addition user interface may include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

Computing device in some examples include one or more batteries which may be rechargeable and provide power to computing device . Battery in some examples is made from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material. In other examples battery may be a power source capable of providing stored power or voltage from another power source.

Computing device may also include one of more GPS devices . GPS device may include one or more satellite radios capable of determining the geographical location of computing device . Computing device may utilize GPS device to confirm the validity of visual media for example. Alternatively computing device may transmit the GPS coordinates to remote server to identify the location and the specific visual media .

In addition computing device may include one or more short range communication device . For example short range communication device may be an NFC device. As described herein short range communication device may be active hardware that is configured to obtain location information from identification device . In general short range communication device may be configured to communicate wirelessly with other devices in physical proximity to short range communication device e.g. approximately 0 10 meters . In other examples short range communication device may be replaced with an alternative short range communication device configured to obtain control information from respective identification device . These alternative short range communication devices may operate according to Bluetooth Ultra Wideband radio or other similar protocols.

Computing device may also include various sensors. Computing device may include one or more accelerometers that sense accelerations of computing device . Accelerometer may be a three axis accelerometer that senses accelerations in multiple dimensions. Alternatively accelerometer may include two or more single axis or two axis accelerometers. Computing device may utilize accelerometer to detect physical movement of computing device for adjusting the parameter or scrolling within a control panel identified by control information . In other examples computing device may also include one or more gyroscopes to sense angular acceleration or compasses to sense the direction computing device with respect to the earth s magnetic field.

Camera may be an optical sensor that computing device controls. Computing device may capture images and or video using camera . In some examples camera may be used to obtain control information and or detect movement of computing device with respect to identification device and or another surface. Camera may be located on any surface of computing device in some examples. In other examples computing device may include two or more cameras.

Computing device may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of computing device . For example operating system in one example facilitates the interaction of application with processors memory network interface storage device user interface battery GPS device short range communication device accelerometer and camera .

Application may be an application configured to manage obtaining control information displaying control panels transmitting control information to remote server receiving adjustment input via control panels detecting movement of computing device and receiving information from remote server . Application may control one or more of these features. Application may thus control any aspect of interaction with identification device and remote server . Application may be automatically launched upon obtaining control information if application is not already being executed by processors . Application may also be used to measure and or calculate the detected movement of computing device or any other functionality described herein. Although one application may manage obtaining control information and adjusting the control parameter separate applications may perform these functions in other examples. Although application may be software independent from operating system application may be a sub routine of operating system in other examples.

Computing device may utilize additional applications to manage any functionality described herein with respect to system or other aspects of computing device . Any applications e.g. application implemented within or executed by computing device may be implemented or contained within operable by executed by and or be operatively communicatively coupled to components of computing device e.g. processors memory network interface and or storage devices .

Computing device may first obtain control information A from identification device A. In response computing device may display control panel . Control panel may include multiple parameters that define at least part of the operation of a stereo system target device. User interface may include a status bar that includes various notifications and information related to the operation of computing device such as network signal strength battery power and the current time. In addition user interface may display control panel .

Control panel may include several parameters. For example control panel may include volume input volume value selection source and menu . Each of these items may be an adjustment input that when selected by the user may be used to adjust the respective parameter. Volume input may be an adjustment input for adjusting the volume of the stereo system and volume value may indicate the current value of the volume parameter. Selection may indicate the current artist and track being played source may indicate where the selection is being played from and menu may allow the user to control additional parameters of the stereo system not displayed in control panel . Each of selection source and menu may also present drop down menus or other inputs when selected.

The user may move computing device in the direction of arrow such that computing device can obtain control information B from a different identification device B. In response to obtaining control information B computing device may display control panel . Since control panel has not been closed computing device may stack control panel adjacent to e.g. on top of control panel . The user may thus control parameters from both the target device of control panel and control panel .

Control panel may include parameters that at least partially control the operation of a lighting system. For example control panel may include light intensity slider for adjusting the intensity of the lighting system or a portion of the lighting system. Power button may be used to toggle between turning the lights ON and OFF. In addition zone selector may be selected by the user to display a drop down menu from which other lighting zones may be selected. Zone selector currently indicates that the lighting in the Living Room is being controlled by control panel .

Although only two control panels and are provided as examples computing device may stack three or more control panels in other examples. If computing device can no longer display any more control panels computing device may automatically close or delete the control panel from the first obtained control information . Alternatively computing device may receive a cancel input from the user that closes a control panel.

In other examples different identification devices may provide control information that identifies respective parameters of the same target device. In this manner responsive to receiving control information from each identification device a single control panel for one target device may be populated or built up with buttons switches slides or other input mechanisms associated with respective parameters of the same target device. For example computing device may obtain from identification device A control information A that identifies one or more parameters that at least partially defines operation of a target device. Computing device may also obtain from identification device B control information B that identifies one or more additional parameters that also at least partially define operation of the same target device. Responsive to obtaining control information B computing device may be configured to update the control panel to include the one or more parameters identified by control information B.

In this manner computing device may build up or add to a control panel with parameters identified by additionally obtained control information. In one example control information A may identify a volume control parameter and control information B may identify a channel control parameter. Computing device may add each of these parameters to the control panel in response to obtaining the respective control information. In some examples each sub panel may be associated with one or more respective parameters that define operation of the same target device.

To select and move a control panel e.g. control panel user may touch and hold any location of control panel for a predetermined period of time e.g. between approximately 0.5 seconds and 5 seconds . Once the predetermined period of time expires user may move control panel to the desired location with respect to control panel . For example user may move control panel in the direction of arrow to define a new spatial relationship between the two control panels. As shown in control panel has been moved to a new spatial relationship below that of control panel . Once user releases the selected control panel the control panels may be locked in their new positions until user desired to once again move a control panel. In other examples computing device may be configured to provide control panels and side by side at diagonal arrangements or at any other user selectable arrangement.

In other examples a user may move a control panel using different techniques. For example the user may select a predetermined surface or area of the control panel and drag the predetermined surface until the respective control panel is moved to the desired location. In another example a user may use multi touch motions such as selecting two or more control panels with respective fingers and dragging each control panel until the control panels are positioned into the new spatial relationship with each other. Alternatively user interface may support scrolling motions numerical inputs or any other motions to trigger and or move a desired control panel to create a new spatial relationship between two or more control panels.

Each of these items in control panel may be an adjustment input that when selected by the user may be used to adjust the respective parameter. Volume input may be an adjustment input for adjusting the volume of the television and volume value may indicate the current value of the volume parameter. Channel input may be an adjustment input for adjusting the channel of the television and channel value may indicate the current channel of the channel parameter. Input may allow the user to select the source from which the television may obtain audio and video information menu may allow the user to control additional parameters of the television not displayed in control panel and power button may allow the user to toggle between ON and OFF. Each of input and menu may also present drop down menus or other inputs when selected.

As shown in computing device may alternatively combine the different parameters from separate control panels to create one control panel . This combination may be used when each of the target devices may operate together in some circumstances. Indicator indicates that control panel includes parameters for two different target devices a TV or television and a Stereo or stereo system . Control panel may include common parameters to each target device and separate parameters. For example selection e.g. selection and source e.g. source may still be exclusive to the stereo system and thus retain separate inputs in control panel . In addition input may retain the separate input of input in control panel . Channel input and channel value may also be similar to that of channel input and channel value of control panel . In some examples the combined control panel may include additional parameters such as equalizer input for adjusting certain frequencies of the sound.

However other parameters may be common parameters selected to adjust only one of the target devices or even common parameters mapped to adjust both target devices at once. For example volume input may be used as a common parameter of volume between both the television and the stereo system. If the stereo system is used to provide sound for the television computing device may identify volume as a common parameter and link volume input for adjusting only the volume of the stereo system target device. In addition computing device may mute the television volume to prevent conflicting sound sources.

In other examples other common parameters may be mapped so that a single input can be used to adjust the parameter of both target devices. For example menu may incorporate both menu and menu from control panels and respectively. When computing device receives selection of menu computing device may present a pop up menu or other screen where the user may navigate the menus of both target devices. In addition power button may be mapped to both target devices. Upon a single selection of power button computing device may control both target devices to turn OFF and ON. Computing device may also receive input customizing or configuring the parameters presented in control panel . These user configurations may also be stored so that computing device generates the same mapping and common parameters during the next instance in which computing device has obtained control information for the same target devices.

Computing device may display the first portion A based on user preferences or default configurations. For example in response to obtaining control information computing device may display the geometric center of control panel as portion A. Alternatively computing device may initially display the most used parameters of control panel as identified by the user or selected based on usage statistics as portion A.

In some examples computing device may be moved in the direction of any arrows as desired by the user. Computing device may detect the movement of computing device with one or more sensors. Scroll indicators and may indicate to the user when the entire control panel is not displayed on user interface . Scroll indicator may indicate the horizontal position of portion A with respect to control panel and scroll indicator may indicate the vertical position of portion A with respect to control panel . In other examples the user may touch and drag portion A to move to a different portion of control panel or use one or more scroll inputs. Target device indicator may indicate the specific target device e.g. a Security System associated with control panel .

As shown in the user has moved computing device to a different portion of control panel . Now portion C includes number pad inputs for target device . The remainder of control panel that is not displayed by user interface may be portion D. Between the user may have merely moved computing device in space. Computing device may have detected the movement with one or more sensors and scrolled through control panel accordingly. Control panel may be moved in a direction opposite that of the movement to simulate moving computing device to a different location in control panel . In other words computing device may move control panel to the left when computing device is moved to the right. Scroll indicators and may be updated based on the movement of computing device as well.

The first measurement at position 1 may be taken upon obtaining control information or otherwise receiving an input from the user indicating the adjustment is to begin. The first measurement may thus be the starting angle or reference angle for measuring the movement of computing device . The second measurement at position 2 may then be the latest or most current measurement from the sensor. The difference between the first and second measurements may thus be used to determine the tilt angle for adjusting the value of the parameter. Parameter value is shown as presented by user interface . In the example of parameter value may have changed from 50 not shown at position 2 to 65 at position 2 shown . Tilt angle may thus correspond to a 15 increase in the value of parameter e.g. volume .

Tilt angle may be the angle between the beginning and end of the adjustment to parameter . Alternatively two or more tilt angles may be calculated in the interim as computing device is rotated between position 1 and position 2. In any case computing device may detect movement of computing device as computing device is rotated and transmit the detected movement to remote server . Rotation in one direction e.g. clockwise may increase the value of the parameter while rotation in another direction e.g. counter clockwise may decrease the value of the parameter. The specific direction of movement required to increase or decrease the parameter may be selected by the user or preset by control information and or parameter information received from remote sever . Computing device may continue to be rotated clockwise or counter clockwise. However computing device may receive a clutch input from the user to allow adjustment of the parameter using only a limited rotational angle e.g. angles limited by rotating a human wrist .

The magnitude of the adjustment may be mapped to the magnitude of the detected tilt angle . For example one degree of tilt angle may correspond to a one percent adjustment in the value of the parameter. However this sensitivity may be adjusted such that one degree of tilt angle corresponds to less than one percent of an adjustment or more than one percent of adjustment. The tilt angle may also correspond to absolute values of the parameter e.g. decibels of a volume or a television channel in other examples.

The available rotation or maximum tilt angle to adjust the parameter may be referred to as an adjustment range. The adjustment range may be set to a predetermined degree of rotation based on how much the user can rotate computing device and or a sensitivity for adjusting the parameter. In one example the adjustment range may cover a 180 degree rotation. When computing device is vertical the value of the parameter is set to the current value when control information was received. Rotating computing device 90 degrees clockwise may increase the parameter to the maximum value of the range while rotating computing device 90 degrees counter clockwise may decrease the parameter to the minimum value of the range. The adjustment range may alternatively be set to 90 degrees 120 degrees 360 degrees or even greater than 360 degrees of rotation. When the adjustment range is used to limit the amount of rotation needed remote server may scale tilt angle to the remaining possible adjustment of the parameter value. In other examples the adjustment range for the tilt angle may be set based on the value of the parameter and the available adjustment of the value.

The sensitivity of the change to the parameter value for the detected movement may be stored by remote database . In addition the range of the available tilt angle may be stored by remote database . In other examples the sensitivity and or range of the parameter may be stored by computing device . In addition the rate of parameter value change may be adaptive based on the speed of rotation in other examples.

Instead of adjusting a parameter value with the rotation of computing device computing device may similarly detect rotation to change the portion of a control panel shown on user interface .

Location may be the location of identification device . Although distance A between locations and of may be a vertical distance distance A may be in any direction from identification device . For example computing device may be moved in a diagonal direction or horizontal direction with respect to identification device and distance A may still be measured in accordance to the direction in which computing device has moved. However opposing directions may be used to adjust the parameter value in opposite directions. For example moving computing device up may increase the value of the parameter and moving computing device down may decrease the value of the parameter. Therefore the movement detected by computing device may have a direction component and a magnitude component. This directional component may also be able to use linear movement to adjust two or more parameters e.g. vertical movement for one parameter and horizontal movement for a second parameter .

Computing device may begin sensing and determining movement in response to obtaining control information from identification device . In another example computing device may continuously sense and determine movement before and after obtaining control information . However computing device may only utilize the movement detected after obtaining the control information to update the movement of computing device . In other examples computing device may begin sensing and determining movement of computing device when the clutch input is received. In another example computing device may change the detection rate e.g. the rate of the sensor that senses the movement in response to obtaining control information or after a predetermined period of time after obtaining the control information. For example computing device may increase the detection rate from a low detection to a high detection rate to provide a more accurate estimation of the physical movement of computing device .

As described herein computing device may use a sensor within computing device to detect movement of computing device . Computing device may then transmit the detected movement to a networked device e.g. remote server . In one example computing device may include one or more accelerometers e.g. accelerometer of that detect movement of computing device by measuring accelerations of computing device after obtaining control information from identification device . After the accelerations are measured computing device may calculate a distance and a direction that computing device was moved based on the measured accelerations. The accelerations may be measured with a two or three axis accelerometer or multiple accelerometers arranged orthogonally to each other. This acceleration measurement method may be referred to as an inertial measurement to interpolate the distance between two positions e.g. position 1 and position 2 .

The measured accelerations e.g. sensor values obtained from the accelerometer sensor may be used to measure the moved distance by double integrating the measured accelerations for example. In the example of the first measurement may be made at position 1 and the second measurement may be made at position 2. The distance may be calculated periodically and added to previously measured distances or calculated at a single time determined based on stopped movement or some other detected indication that the distance should be calculated. For example the new position of computing device may be determined in two dimensions in a plane parallel with user interface of computing device . The following equation may be used to determine the new position of computing device Distance Distance Integral Integral Integral Integral . 1 Equation 1 illustrates the example method for determining the distance computing device has moved by double integration of each X and Y directional component of the sensor output. X is the distance moved in the X direction and Y is the distance moved in the Y direction. AccX is the acceleration value in the X direction over time t and AccY is the acceleration value in the Y direction over time t. Distance A may correspond to Y in this example of . When each acceleration value is integrated twice and added to the previous or old position the detected movement has been used to calculate or estimate the location of computing device . Either the X distance or Y distance or both may be used to calculate the appropriate adjustment to the identified parameter e.g. parameter .

For example computing device at position 1 has a value of 50 for parameter . After computing device has been moved vertically upward e.g. computing device at position 2 the value of parameter has been adjusted to 65 . In other words detected movement of distance A may correspond to a parameter change of approximately 15 . Moving computing device further upward may further increase the parameter value. Conversely moving computing device downward may decrease the parameter value.

In some examples computing device may directly calculate movement of computing device based on the acceleration measurements and transmit the calculated movement as movement information. Remote server may then use the movement information to make the corresponding adjustment to the identified parameter from control information . In this manner computing device and remote server may each contribute to calculating the movement of computing device . Alternatively remote sever may perform most of the calculations to determine movement of computing device . Computing device may simply transmit sensed or measured values from the one or more accelerometers and calibration information if necessary to remote server . Remote server may then calculate the distance and direction computing device has moved and the adjusted value of the parameter. In any case remote server may use the newly calculated movement of computing device to adjust the parameter value and transmit the adjusted value of the parameter to target device and computing device as parameter information.

The magnitude of the adjustment may be mapped to the magnitude of distance A. For example one centimeter of movement may correspond to a five percent adjustment in the value of the parameter. However this sensitivity may be adjusted such that one centimeter of linear movement corresponds to less than five percent of an adjustment or more than five percent of adjustment. The distance A may also correspond to absolute values of the parameter e.g. decibels of a volume or a television channel in other examples. In addition the rate of parameter value change may be adaptive based on the speed of rotation in other examples.

The available movement or maximum distance A to adjust the parameter may be referred to as an adjustment range. The adjustment range may be set to a predetermined distance based on a reasonable distance to move computing device and or a sensitivity for adjusting the parameter. Generally the adjustment range may be between approximately 2.0 centimeters and 100 centimeters. However the adjustment range may be less than 2.0 centimeters or greater than 100 centimeters in other examples. In one example the adjustment range may be approximately 40 centimeters. Moving computing device up 20 centimeters may increase the parameter value to the maximum value of the parameter and moving computing device centimeters down may decrease the parameter value to the minimum value of the parameter. When the adjustment range is used to limit the amount of movement needed remote server may scale distance A to the remaining possible adjustment of the parameter value. In other examples the adjustment range for the linear movement may be set based on the value of the parameter and the available adjustment of the value or the amount of movement needed to reach all portions of an oversized control panel.

The sensitivity of the change to the parameter value for the detected movement may be stored by remote database . In addition the range of the available movement distance may be stored by remote database . In other examples the sensitivity and or range of the parameter may be stored by computing device . In addition the rate of parameter value change may be adaptive based on the speed of movement in other examples.

Instead of adjusting a parameter value with the rotation of computing device computing device may similarly detect linear movement to change the portion of a control panel shown on user interface . This movement may be similar to that described with respect to .

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain control information from identification device when computing device is placed proximate to identification device . Once processor obtains the control information processor may retrieve panel information from a memory . In some examples processor may retrieve panel information from memory or storage devices of computing device . In other examples computing device may retrieve panel information from remote database via remote server . In any example panel information may define at least part of the control panel displayed on computing device and include at least one parameter to be adjusted for target device . Processor may then control user interface to display the control panel and at least one parameter of target device in the control panel .

If processor does not receive an adjustment input associated with the control panel NO branch of block and no command to close the control panel has been received NO branch of block processor may continue to display the control panel . If processor does receive a command to close the control panel YES branch of block processor may close the control panel . If processor receives an adjustment input YES branch of block processor may transmit adjustment information to the associated receiver . The adjustment information may include a reference or instruction representative of the adjustment input received e.g. an adjustment input via the control panel or a detected movement of computing device . Receiver may be directly associated with target device or used as an access point to remote server via network . Processor may then update the control panel based on the received adjustment . The update may be changing the value of the displayed parameter in the control panel.

If processor does receive a command to close the control panel YES branch of block processor may close the control panel . If processor does not receive a command to close the control panel NO branch of block processor may check for new control information . If processor does not detect new control information NO branch of block processor may continue to display the current control panel . If processor does detect new control information YES branch of block processor may obtain new control information from the respective identification device .

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain first control information A from identification device A when computing device is placed proximate to identification device A . Once processor obtains the control information A processor may retrieve first panel information from a memory . As described herein processor may retrieve panel information from memory or storage devices of computing device or remote database via remote server . In any example the first panel information may define at least part of the first control panel displayed on computing device and include at least one parameter to be adjusted for a first target device. Processor may then control user interface to display the first control panel and at least one parameter of the first target device in the first control panel .

If processor does detect additional control information NO branch of block processor may continue to display the first control panel . In response to obtaining additional control information B YES branch of block processor may use short range communication device to obtain second control information B from the identification device B . Once processor obtains the control information B processor may retrieve second panel information from a memory . Processor may then manage the two control panels. Processor may determine the stacked arrangement for the first and second control panels to be displayed by user interface . For example processor may use one or more instructions stored in a memory to determine the spatial relationship between the two control panels in the stacked configuration. Processor then displays the first control panel stacked with the second control panel .

In some examples processor may continue to stack additional control panels as long as the user does not close a control panel. Processor may take different actions upon obtaining additional control information in other examples. In one example processor may replace the current control panel with the new control panel of the most recently obtained control information. In another example processor may merge the parameters of the two control panels with separate parameters or even common parameters with single inputs.

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain first control information from identification device when computing device is placed proximate to identification device . Once processor obtains the control information processor may retrieve panel information from a memory . If processor determines that the control panel will fit entirely within the display of user interface NO branch of block processor may control user interface to display the control panel of at least one parameter of target device .

In response to determining that the control panel will be oversized for user interface YES branch of block processor may determine which portion of the control panel to display first and display the control panel . In addition to displaying the portion of the control panel processor may display one or more scroll indicators that indicate where the displayed portion of the control panel is with respect to remaining non displayed portions of the control panel.

If processor does not detect any movement of computing device via accelerometer NO branch of block processor may determine if the control panel should be closed e.g. processor has received input closing the control panel for target device . If the control panel is to be closed YES branch of block processor may close the oversized control panel for target device . If the control panel is to remain open NO branch of block processor may continue to display a portion of the oversized control panel .

In response to processor detecting movement of computing device based on a change in output from accelerometer YES branch of block processor determines the new portion of the oversized control panel to be displayed based on the detected movement . For example processor may measure accelerations of computing device using accelerometer . Using the acceleration values processor may calculate the distance computing device has moved by double integrating the measured accelerations. Processor may also calculate the direction computing device has moved by determining the vector based on direction components of the distance values. Alternatively processor may calculate the direction of movement by taking a single integration of the acceleration values and using the velocity vector. Although this technique is described with regard to linear movement of computing device rotational movement may similarly be detected as described herein. Processor may scale the distance of the movement to correspond to an appropriate translation or scroll of the oversized control panel in the opposite direction of the movement.

Once processor determines the new portion of the oversized control panel to be displayed processor may command user interface to display the new portion of the control panel and update the scroll indicators . Processor may then continue to detect movement of computing device for further adjustments to the displayed portion of the control panel.

Using short range communication device e.g. an NFC device processor may obtain control information from identification device when computing device is placed proximate to identification device . Once processor obtains the control information processor may command user interface to display the control panel with the desired parameter of target device . The operation of detecting movement may in some examples overlap with the operation of displaying the control panel or other operations.

If processor does not detect any movement of computing device via accelerometer NO branch of block processor may determine if the adjustment of the parameter should be stopped e.g. processor has received input terminating movement control of the parameter . If the parameter adjustment is to be stopped YES branch of block processor may terminate control of the parameter using detected movement of computing device . In other words the user may select when the detected movement is used to adjust the parameter and or the adjustment period may be a time period that causes termination of adjustment once the time period expires. If the parameter adjustment is to be continued NO branch of block processor may continue to detect movement of computing device .

If processor detects movement of computing device based on a change in output from accelerometer YES branch of block processor may measure accelerations of computing device . Processor may command accelerometer to begin sensing accelerations or processor may begin accessing accelerometer data to measure the accelerations. Using the acceleration values processor may calculate the distance computing device has moved by double integrating the measured accelerations. Processor may also calculate the direction computing device has moved by determining the vector based on direction components of the distance values. Alternatively processor may calculate the direction of movement by taking a single integration of the acceleration values and using the velocity vector. Although this technique is described with regard to linear movement of computing device rotational movement may similarly be detected as described herein.

Once the distance and direction of movement has been calculated processor may determine the adjustment to be made to the parameter based on the detected movement . Computing device may employ one or more equations or lookup tables to determine the adjustment from the detected movement. Computing device may also generate adjustment information suitable for controlling target device using the determined adjustment. Processor may then transmit the adjustment information to receiver associated with target device . In one example receiver may be directly coupled to target device . In other examples receiver may be an access point for network and remote server . In this manner computing device or remote server may command adjustments to a parameter of target device . Processor may then update the control panel and the respective value of the parameter based on the determined adjustment from the detected movement . For example the adjusted value may be presented on screen of .

If processor receives a command to stop the adjustment of the parameter YES branch of block processor may terminate the movement control of the parameter . However terminating the movement control of the parameter may not close the control panel. If processor does not receive a command to stop adjusting the parameter value NO branch of block processor continue to detect movement for adjusting the parameter .

Remote server may communicate with target device via network to adjust the parameter value based on the detected movement of computing device . In other examples remote server may communicate with target device via a different network or using a direct communication pathway other than a network. Alternatively computing device may directly control target device e.g. adjust the parameter based on physical movements of computing device . Computing device may transmit adjustments to the parameter value via network . In other examples computing device may use infrared communication radio frequency communication or other direct communication protocol to adjust the value of the parameter based on control information and the detected movement of computing device . Each of these communication pathways may utilize type of receiver .

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various techniques described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware firmware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware firmware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware firmware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in an article of manufacture including a computer readable storage medium encoded may cause one or more programmable processors or other processors to implement one or more of the techniques described herein such as when instructions included or encoded in the computer readable storage medium are executed by the one or more processors. Example computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a compact disc ROM CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable storage media.

In some examples a computer readable storage medium may comprise non transitory medium. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

Various aspects of the disclosure have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

