---

title: Social networking grouping hierarchy
abstract: A social networking environment enables interaction between social networking (SNET) groups. Some interactions between SNET groups can include docking various SNET groups based upon interactions between a member and some part of a social network. Various hierarchies of social networking infrastructure can enable hierarchical interactions between social devices, SNET groups, and other elements associated with various social networking infrastructures. Capabilities provided by various elements in various SNET infrastructures can be docked to create combined SNET groups, and capabilities provided by an SNET group can be accessed via interaction with a representative view of the capabilities. Various interactions can be managed based upon inputs, trigger events, authorizations, and the like provided by various processing systems, devices, members, or the like. Various interactions can enable members associated with an SNET infrastructure to access capabilities provided by an SNET group via a docked SNET group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09060036&OS=09060036&RS=09060036
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09060036
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
The present U.S. Utility patent application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to the following U.S. Provisional patent application which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility patent application for all purposes 

The present U.S. Utility patent application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation in part CIP to the following U.S. Utility patent application which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility patent application for all purposes 

This invention relates generally to social networking and more particularly to social network group access interaction communication control and related services and communications.

The popularity and growth of social network sites and services has increased dramatically over the last few years. Present social network sites include Facebook Google Twitter MySpace YouTube LinkedIn Flicker Jaiku MYUBO Bebo and the like. Such social networking SNET sites are typically web based and organized around user profiles and or collections of content accessible by members of the network. Membership in such social networks is comprised of individuals or groupings of individuals who are generally represented by profile pages and permitted to interact as determined by the social networking service.

In many popular social networks especially profile focused social networks activity centers on web pages or social spaces that enable members to view profiles communicate and share activities interests opinions status updates audio video content etc. across networks of contacts. Social networking services might also allow members to track certain activities of other members of the social network collaborate locate and connect with existing friends former acquaintances and colleagues and establish new connections with other members.

Individual members typically connect to social networking services through existing web based platforms via a computing device tablet or smartphone. Members often share a common bond social status or geographic or cultural connection with their respective contacts. Smartphone and games based mobile social networking services are examples of rapidly developing areas.

In so called cloud computing computing tasks are performed on remote computers servers which are typically accessed via Internet connections. One benefit of cloud computing is that may reduce the relative processing and storage capabilities required by user devices e.g. a cloud computer may load a webpage accessed by a tablet device and communicate only required information back to the tablet . Accordingly recent years have witnessed an ever growing amount of content and application software being migrated from local or on site storage to cloud based data storage and management. Such software functionality services and content are typically available on demand via virtualized network infrastructures.

In so called cloud computing computing tasks are performed on remote computers servers which are typically accessed via Internet connections. One benefit of cloud computing is that may reduce the relative processing and storage capabilities required by user devices e.g. a cloud computer may load a webpage accessed by a tablet device and communicate only required information back to the tablet . Accordingly recent years have witnessed an ever growing amount of content and application software being migrated from local or on site storage to cloud based data storage and management. Such software functionality services and content are typically available on demand via virtualized network infrastructures.

Often a visitor to a location network or the like is granted access to a location business network and possibly to a social networking environment cloud applications or cloud media content. Such grants are often virtually unlimited in duration and scope. In addition a social group has a variety of mechanisms for establishing contact with another member member device or member device service including for example telephone numbers IP or other routing addresses VoIP video call handles twitter handles other SNET handles blogs web page addresses email addresses etc. When a change to the above occurs it may be difficult to convey the information to all other members and member devices.

As used herein the terms social network SNET social networking system social networking infrastructure and the like comprise a grouping or social structure of devices and or individuals as well as connections links and interdependencies between such devices and or individuals. Members or actors including devices within or affiliated with an SNET may be referred to herein as members users membership nodes social devices SNET members SNET membership SNET devices user devices and or modules . In addition the terms social circle social group SNET circle SNET sub circle SNET group and SNET sub group generally denote an SNET that comprises SNET devices and as contextually appropriate human SNET members device SNET members personal area networks PAN and the like.

Referring now to a social networking hereinafter SNET grouping hierarchy according to various embodiments is shown. In some embodiments a SNET grouping hierarchy includes one or more tiers of SNET infrastructure encompassed at least in part by an SNET that can be docked to hereinafter referred to interchangeably as associated with joined and the like other SNET infrastructure SNET groups social devices and the like. For example in the illustrated embodiment one tier of SNET grouping hierarchy can include a service SNET infrastructure and another tier of SNET grouping hierarchy can include one or more client SNET infrastructures and . In some embodiments various tiers can be docked such that a higher tier can be docked to lower tiers to provide access by lower tiers to various capabilities provided by the higher tier.

In some embodiments one or more infrastructures are managed by one or more processing systems computers server devices network nodes social devices some combination thereof or the like. For example in the illustrated embodiment some or all of the service SNET infrastructure one or more client SNET infrastructures and some combination thereof and the like may be managed by one or more social service support devices one or more client social devices and some combination thereof or the like. Processing systems can include without limitation one or more instances of processing circuitry distributed across one or more server devices network nodes some combination thereof or the like.

For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET grouping hierarchy includes a service SNET infrastructure in a first tier and multiple client SNET infrastructures and in a second tier. Infrastructures can include without limitation one or more SNET groups one or more services applications resources devices and the like associated with one or more entities which can include without limitation clients members of an SNET nonmembers of an SNET guests of an SNET some combination thereof and the like. For example service SNET infrastructure can include without limitation user devices applications and SNET groups and associated with one or more services. A client SNET infrastructure can include one or more client SNET groups and one or more social devices associated with one or more particular clients hereinafter referred to interchangeably as users members visitors guests and the like . For example a first client side infrastructure can include one or more SNET groups associated with an SNET member along with one or more social devices associated with the SNET member. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the social devices in a client infrastructure can be docked associated joined and the like with SNET groups associated with the client. At least one process of docking is discussed in further detail in at least U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 incorporated by reference herein in full for all purposes. In some embodiments a device SNET group or the like docked to another SNET group becomes a member of the SNET group to which it is docked. By docking a client social device to a client SNET group a user associated with a client SNET group can interact with the SNET group by interacting with a social device docked to the SNET group . Members clients users and the like as referred to herein can include without limitation human members of an SNET or some other network device members of an SNET or some other network some combination thereof and the like.

In some embodiments one or more capabilities which can include without limitation various services applications SNET groups some combination thereof and the like are mixed combined merged some combination thereof and the like via a docking process into one or more SNET groups that can provide access to a desired selection of capabilities through interaction with the one or more SNET groups. For example service SNET infrastructure illustrates capabilities that can be provided by various service support social user devices various social servicing applications and the like. In some embodiments access to various service support social user devices either directly through interaction with a SNET group to which the service support social user devices are docked and access to various social servicing applications either directly through interaction with a SNET group docked to the social servicing applications or the like can be provided to SNET members. One or more of the capabilities provided by the devices and applications SNET groups and docked to the devices and applications some combination thereof or the like can be combined into a single SNET group that can provide access to one or more capabilities provided by devices services applications SNET groups some combination thereof or the like.

For example a user of a client SNET infrastructure can by docking a social device via a docking process to a single SNET group that itself combines SNET groups and gain access to the capabilities provided by both SNET groups and by docking with SNET group .

In some embodiments access to capabilities provided by one or more SNET groups infrastructures and the like can be accomplished by docking one SNET group to another SNET group. For example a client SNET group can be docked via a docking process to SNET group thereby enabling a user of the client side infrastructure to access the capabilities provided by SNET group through the client SNET group . In particular where one or more social devices are docked to the client SNET group a user can access the capabilities provided by SNET group via one or more of the social devices that are docked with the client SNET group . A docking process can include joining client SNET group as a member of SNET group docking also referred to herein as associating client SNET group to SNET group via one of various processes described herein and in at least U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 342 301 entitled Social Network Device memberships and Applications filed Jan. 3 2012 U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 408 986 entitled Social Device Resource Management filed Feb. 29 2012 incorporated by reference herein in full for all purposes some combination thereof or the like.

As an illustration of the above embodiment a user entering premises including without limitation a store restaurant hotel business public area and the like may desire to access capabilities including without limitation services applications information devices some combination thereof and the like provided by an SNET group associated with the premises. Rather than individually dock each of the user s devices with the SNET group the user can simply dock a personal SNET group to which the user s devices are docked with the SNET group associated with the premises thereby granting the user access to the premises capabilities through some or all of the devices that the user has docked with his personal SNET group. As a further example a hotel may provide various capabilities including without limitation access to a call routing phone service control of a particular television device access to a database some combination thereof or the like through an SNET group. Rather than individually dock his personal devices to the hotel s SNET group to utilize the capabilities provided including without limitation docking a smartphone device to the hotel SNET group to utilize the call routing phone service docking a computer device to the hotel SNET group to control the particular television device or the like the guest can simply dock his personal SNET group to the hotel s SNET group and then access the capabilities provided through the hotel s SNET group through a device docked with his personal SNET group.

In some embodiments docking SNET groups such that a user member client or the like can access capabilities provided by various services devices SNET groups and the like associated with various SNET infrastructures enhances security. For example where a user associated with a first client SNET infrastructure can only access capabilities provided by service SNET infrastructure by docking with SNET group various levels of security can be utilized by one or more processing systems devices and the like associated with the service SNET infrastructure client SNET infrastructure and the like to ensure secure access to the capabilities. In addition in some embodiments accessing capabilities provided by an SNET infrastructure by docking two or more SNET groups provides additional levels of security. For example where access to capabilities provided by service SNET infrastructure entails docking a client SNET group or the like to SNET group a more secure connection with various levels of security can be employed and access to the capabilities can be easily granted altered restricted terminated and the like via management of a single dock association or the like between a client SNET group and SNET group . A processing system device or the like associated with the service SNET infrastructure client SNET infrastructure or the like can manage the association based upon inputs received from a user a third party entity some internal logic elapse of a period of time a change in geographic location of a client social device associated with the client SNET infrastructure some other trigger event some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments the selection and docking process can be automated automatic some combination thereof or the like. For example a docking process may be automatic by being triggered based upon a location of a user of an infrastructure including without limitation a geographic proximity of one or more of a user a social device associated with a user a social device docked with a particular client SNET group some combination thereof or the like. In some embodiments a user can provide one or more association rules that can provide conditions under which one or more particular client SNET groups can be docked to other SNET groups. Conditions can include without limitation geographic proximity of one or more social devices docked to the particular client social to a geographic location associated with an SNET group authorization by a user associated with the infrastructure SNET group social device some combination thereof or the like to dock the client SNET group with SNET group some combination thereof or the like. Association rules can be communicated to a social device docked with a particular SNET group a processing system that manages docking of various SNET groups some combination thereof or the like. One or more of a processing system a social device some combination thereof or the like can monitor a client SNET group social device docked to the client SNET group one or more attributes of another one or more SNET groups in relation to one or more attributes of one or more client SNET groups docked social devices some combination thereof or the like in relation to one or more association rules in order to determine whether to dock one or more SNET groups social devices or the like together. Association rules can be altered by a user a processing system some other entity or the like on the fly to create new rules delete rules alter rules or the like. For example a user associated with a client SNET group who may have previously communicated to a processing system an association rule that prohibits docking the client SNET group to an SNET group beyond a threshold geographic proximity to a social device can communicate on the fly an alteration of the association rule that can include without limitation altering the threshold geographic proximity authorizing a docking of the client SNET group to a particular SNET group on a case by case basis ordering an undocking of a client SNET group from another SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments various tiers of a SNET grouping hierarchy are subject to various levels of access to information. For example in the illustrated embodiment a user of the higher tier service SNET infrastructure may be able to view each client SNET group and associated with a lower tier client SNET infrastructure and that is docked to an SNET group associated with the social service infrastructure . A user of the service SNET infrastructure may also be able to view the various social devices and docked to the various client SNET groups and . In another example one or more users of a lower tier infrastructure including without limitation client SNET infrastructure and may be able to view some or all of the capabilities provided through an SNET group associated with a higher tier infrastructure to which an SNET group associated with the lower tier infrastructure is docked but cannot view some or all of the higher tier infrastructure including without limitation various SNET groups and from which capabilities provided by SNET group are originally provided. Additionally a user of a lower tier infrastructure accessing an SNET group associated with a higher tier service SNET infrastructure may be unable to view some or all of the other similarly lower tier client SNET infrastructures and that are also docked with the same SNET group .

In some embodiments the selection and docking process can be controlled managed and the like by one or more various social devices processing systems or the like. For example a processing system of a SNET infrastructure which can include one or more instances of processing circuitry distributed across one or more server devices network nodes some combination thereof or the like may control the docking and undocking of one SNET group to another based upon a user s interaction with the SNET one or more association rules one or more inputs some internal logic some combination thereof or the like. As another example a social device may control the docking and undocking of one or more SNET groups based upon a user s interaction with the SNET one or more association rules one or more inputs some internal logic some combination thereof or the like. In some embodiments a processing system social device some combination thereof or the like authorized to manage a higher tier infrastructure can manage one or more attributes of access by one or more lower tier infrastructures docked to the higher tier infrastructure. For example a processing system authorized to control a higher tier social service infrastructure may alter access to certain capabilities restrict access to certain capabilities terminate access via undocking of SNET groups and devices some combination thereof or the like based upon input or some other logic. The processing system may determine that a trigger event including without limitation all social devices docked with a client SNET group docked to SNET group have exceeded a predetermined threshold geographic proximity distance from a geographic location associated with SNET group and based upon the determination undock the client SNET group from SNET group partially or fully restrict access by client SNET group to certain capabilities provided by SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

Referring now to various representative views according to various embodiments are discussed. In some embodiments a user SNET member SNET nonmember and the like associated with a first infrastructure that is docked with a second infrastructure via one or more docked SNET groups social devices some combination thereof or the like can access capabilities provided by the second infrastructure by interacting with a representative view which can be part of data provided by a processing system some part of the second infrastructure some part of the first infrastructure a social device associated with the first infrastructure a second device associated with the user some combination thereof or the like. For example where a client SNET group of the first social client side infrastructure illustrated above in is docked with an SNET group of the social service infrastructure that provides device access capabilities and provided by SNET groups and a user may access capabilities provided by SNET group via interaction with a representative view that is part of data provided by one or more SNET systems SNET SNET infrastructure SNET group SNET device some combination thereof or the like. Where a client SNET group is docked with one or more client social devices a user may interact with some part of one or more social devices to access capabilities provided by SNET group via the client SNET group directly via the social devices some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments a representative view can provide a simplified representation of the capabilities that can be accessed via a docking of one or more SNET groups. For example while SNET group provides capabilities and by merging the SNET groups and that provide the capabilities and a representative view provided to a member accessing SNET group via a docked client SNET group a social device docked to a docked client SNET group some combination thereof or the like may display only the capabilities provided by SNET group with little or no indication of the true complexity of the groups and that are combined to enable SNET group to provide capabilities and . A member accessing the capabilities and via a representative view may access the capabilities and by interacting with representations of those capabilities included in representative view that is part of data provided by one or more SNETs SNET systems SNET infrastructures processing systems devices SNET groups some combination thereof or the like. Interaction with the representative view can in some embodiments proceed via interaction with some part of a docked social device including without limitation a user interface a part of a docked client SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments one or more third party SNET groups associated with separate members infrastructures and the like are docked with a first SNET group to enable members of the third party SNET group to access some or all of information associated with the first SNET group capabilities provided by a docked SNET group some combination thereof or the like. For example in the illustrated embodiment client SNET group can be docked to client SNET group thereby enabling client SNET group to access some or all of information provided to members of client SNET group capabilities provided by SNET group that is docked to client SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

As an example of the above a traveler may desire to dock a client SNET group associated with his company to a personal client SNET group associated with his business travels. By docking the company s client SNET group the traveler may enable members of the company s client SNET group to view the traveler s whereabouts as they are provided to members of his personal client SNET group access at least some of the capabilities provided to the traveler by docking with other SNET groups via the same or a similar representative view e.g. access and manage his travel reservations provide relevant travel and business update information to the traveler on the fly etc. some combination thereof and the like. Such dockings can be managed by the traveler s social device by the social service infrastructure based upon input provided by the traveler by one or more other devices some combination thereof or the like. For example the traveler may authorize only limited access by docked third party SNET groups to information associated with his personal client SNET group limited access to capabilities provided by a docked SNET group and the like and the traveler may authorize access restrictions undocking some combination thereof and the like based upon on the fly input one or more trigger events or the like. Trigger events can include without limitation a change in geographic location associated with one or more social devices associated with the traveler a change in authorization information provided by an entity or the like.

In some embodiments distinct representative views can be provided where separate SNET groups SNET devices and the like associated with a lower tiered infrastructure are docked to a higher tiered infrastructure in an SNET grouping hierarchy. In the illustrated embodiment for example client SNET group and client SNET group which are associated with a first social client side infrastructure and an Nth social client side infrastructure respectively are each docked to SNET group associated with social service infrastructure . In the illustrated embodiment a first representative view is provided to a member accessing the capabilities of SNET group through the client SNET group a docked social device some combination thereof or the like and an nth representative view is provided to a member accessing the capabilities of SNET group through client SNET group a docked social device some combination thereof or the like. In some embodiments representative views provided to separate docked SNET groups are distinct separate or the like with respect to each other. For example in an embodiment where SNET group provides capabilities associated with a hotel experience including without limitation remote control of a television device and docked client SNET groups and the like are associated with separate hotel guests the capabilities provided via one or more separate representative views can be distinct such that the hotel guest can access capabilities customized to the guest including without limitation remote control of a specific television device associated with a hotel room. Where the guest is not an SNET member the guest can be invited to create a temporary SNET group guest SNET group an ad hoc SNET group some combination thereof or the like and then dock the created SNET group to another SNET group to access capabilities provided by the other SNET group.

Referring now to some embodiments of an SNET grouping hierarchy can enable a client SNET group to dock to an SNET group that provides capabilities from various infrastructures. In the illustrated embodiment two infrastructures and are combined docked associated or the like to provide capabilities from both infrastructures and through a single combined SNET group . The global social service infrastructure includes capabilities provided by social service support user devices social servicing apps and various SNET groups and that provide some combination of the capabilities provided by the infrastructure . In addition the local regional social service infrastructure also includes capabilities provided by social service support user devices social servicing apps and various SNET groups and that provide some combination of the capabilities provided by the infrastructure . The combined local regional and global SNET group provides a combination of the capabilities provided by the social service support user devices and and the social servicing apps and provided by both infrastructures and . Where client SNET group can be docked with SNET group a member of client SNET group will be able to access the capabilities provided by both infrastructures by docking a single client SNET group with a single SNET group .

In some embodiments a representative view provided to a member of client SNET group accessing the capabilities provided by SNET group includes only the combined capabilities provided by both infrastructures and independently of some or all indications of the infrastructure from which some or all of the capabilities are originally provided. In the illustrated embodiment for example the capabilities provided by the social service support user devices and from both infrastructures and are presented in the representative view as a combined set of social service support user devices likewise the social servicing apps and from both infrastructures and are presented in the representative view as a combined set of social servicing apps . In addition all of the SNET groups and in the infrastructures that are partially or fully combined into SNET group may be partially or fully transparent to a member accessing a representative view of the capabilities provided by SNET group . In some embodiments a member accessing representative view can restore the full complexity of the combination of infrastructures and in representative view such that the member can view the various SNET groups and capabilities specific to various infrastructures and provided capabilities.

As an example of the illustrated embodiment a hotel chain may provide a global SNET infrastructure that provides capabilities common to all hotels in the franchise such as a global media database corporate contact information information databases some combination thereof or the like. In addition a certain local hotel may desire to have a local SNET infrastructure that provides access to local entertainment dining news information device access specific to the local hotel some combination thereof and the like. The hotel may desire to combine the hotel chain s capabilities provided by the global SNET infrastructure with the location specific capabilities provided by the local SNET infrastructure into a combined SNET group to enable a hotel guest to access global and local capabilities with a single docking process and via a single representative that provides global and local capabilities partially or fully combined.

In some embodiments combinations of capabilities provided by separate infrastructures are managed in part or in full by one or more processing systems social devices members applications some combination thereof or the like that are associated with one or more infrastructures. For example in the illustrated embodiment a processing system associated with the local SNET infrastructure may manage the combination of capabilities from infrastructures and into SNET group manage docking of client SNET groups with the SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments access to an SNET group by a client SNET group can be granted restricted terminated or the like by a network manager processing system social device some combination thereof or the like according to an input a trigger event some other internal logic or the like. For example when a social device docked with a client social device leaves a premises associated with an SNET group the client SNET group s access to capabilities provided by SNET group may be terminated by terminating or restricting access granted by the docking changing authorization to interact with some or all capabilities provided by SNET group undocking the client social device from SNET group some combination thereof or the like. This can occur automatically in response to a trigger event including without limitation elapse of a predetermined time after entering or leaving the premises or the like. In some embodiments a client SNET group can maintain residual access to SNET group after a device docked to the client SNET group leaves the premises. For example where the premises associated with SNET group is a hotel and a member associated with client SNET group belongs to an exclusive hotel membership the client SNET group associated with the member may after a docked device leaves the premises still receive at least some access to capabilities provided by SNET group including without limitation a call routing phone service.

In some embodiments an SNET group associated with a member including a human a device or the like can be docked to another SNET group to enable the member to access or receive services contact information other information associated with the SNET group exchange information some combination thereof or the like. Such a member can be an existing member of an SNET a nonmember also referred to herein as a third party or the like. For example a human user with a device can approach within a threshold such as a proximity of an access point for a premises or the like upon which the access point some other device associated with the premises or the like delivers an invitation to dock to an SNET group associated with the premises to the human user via the device to the device itself some combination thereof or the like. The invitation can vary depending upon whether one or both the human user and the device are already members of the SNET nonmembers or the like. For example where the device is not a social device the access point can deliver an invitation in the form of a web page to the device via a browser application or the like that offers the device human user some combination thereof or the like the option of joining an SNET group as an ad hoc member. Where the device is a social device the invitation can include a direct invitation to dock an SNET group with the premises associated SNET group via a social interface user interface or the like located on the device.

The invitation can be accepted via one of various acceptance processes. For example where a social device receives an invitation that includes a unique identifier uniquely identifying the SNET group to which the member is invited to dock an SNET group social device or the like the social device can interact with an access point another device an SNET SNET group SNET sub group and the like via an independent pathway or the like to utilize the unique identifier to accept the invitation. Acceptance in the above example may include simply delivering the unique identifier and information identifying the SNET group associated with delivery of the unique identifier upon which the SNET group is docked to the premises associated SNET group. In addition where a non social device attempts to access an access point and the access point pushes a web page to a browser application on the non social device the acceptance process can include accessing the web page indicating a desire to dock with the SNET group providing some other information or the like such that the non social device an ad hoc guest SNET group some combination thereof or the like is accepted as docked to the premises associated SNET group.

Upon accepting the invitation the member human user device some combination thereof or the like can gain at least some access to capabilities provided by the premises associated SNET group. For example where the premises is a coffee shop a member whose personal SNET group is docked to a premises associated SNET group may gain access via one or more devices docked to his personal SNET group to various services including without limitation online newspapers videos a menu for item sales shopping options for home delivery ordering interface for on site delivery other information some combination thereof or the like. In another example where the premises is a hotel private residence or the like a member whose personal SNET group is docked to a premises based SNET group may gain access via one or more devices docked to his personal SNET group to services information and the like including without limitation access to locally or remotely stored content items contact information access to control functional elements of on site devices some combination thereof or the like. In another example where the premises is a shopping mall an access point may deliver push or the like an invitation to the device user of the device some combination thereof or the like to dock to an SNET group associated with the mall. The access point may require that a device user or the like attempt to access the access point before the invitation is delivered to the device user or the like in the form of a unique identifier web page or the like. Services associated with the SNET group can include without limitation advertising sales and coupon information and the like provided by computing devices of each store within the mall a mall mapping service that show those docked to the SNET group the locations of particular stores a mall music service that provides those docked to the SNET group with music or other media content served by media sources associated with the SNET group telephone directory services a search engine relating to anything within any store in the mall some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments an access point supports delivery of invitations to dock to an SNET group processing acceptances of invitations routing communications between members ad hoc members and potential members of an SNET group and the SNET SNET group or the like. A device may need to attempt to access the access point to receive an invitation provided by the access point. In some embodiments the access point automatically provides the invitation to any device that the access point determines has crossed a threshold such as a predetermined proximity to a premises location or the like. Those docked to the SNET group including ad hoc members SNET groups ad hoc SNET groups some combination thereof or the like may be able to couple with other devices users members or the like that are also docked with the SNET group. Upon crossing another or the same threshold docking to the SNET group can be terminated or restricted. For example where a device that enters a premises is offered an ad hoc docking to an SNET group by an access point the access point may restrict terminate or the like the ad hoc docking upon determining that the device has left the premises.

In some embodiments various SNET groups are created by an SNET infrastructure based upon on an input from a user member processing system device SNET SNET group some combination thereof or the like. For example where SNET infrastructure is associated with an SNET member account a member of the account may provide input to the SNET infrastructure to create SNET group . The input can include without limitation attributes of the group social devices to be docked with the group information to be accessible to one or more members of group some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments an SNET group in an SNET infrastructure is docked with another SNET group. For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET group is docked with SNET group and SNET group via docking links and respectively. Docking one SNET group to another SNET group can be accomplished via one or more various docking processes including without limitation sole initiation of docking by one or more devices SNET groups or the like.

In some embodiments a docking process can include interactions between at least some of both a first SNET group and a second SNET group. For example where SNET group is to be docked to SNET group via docking link SNET group and SNET group may exchange security information processing and the like with reference to one or more members docked devices functional elements accessible information some combination thereof or the like between the two SNET groups. Such exchanges can enable additional security verifications of appropriate interactions and access between the two SNET groups their respective members and the like. In some embodiments additional security processes such as human confirmation requirements are employed to ensure secure access to capabilities of one or more docked SNET groups devices members and the like.

In some embodiments a docking process can include various actions performed by one or more of an SNET SNET system SNET infrastructure processing system SNET group social device user member some combination thereof or the like that can include without limitation verifying an optimal docking location arranging a presentation of docking links to a user member or the like. For example where a user associated with SNET infrastructure interacts with SNET infrastructure to dock SNET group to some part of SNET infrastructure to access various capabilities of SNET groups included in SNET infrastructure a docking process to associate dock or the like SNET group with another SNET group in SNET infrastructure can include without limitation determining an optimal docking configuration between SNET group and one or more various SNET groups in SNET infrastructure to enable access by a member of SNET group to certain one or more capabilities of SNET infrastructure . As shown in the illustrated embodiment SNET group can be docked with both SNET group via docking link and SNET group via docking link as part of a single docking process to associate SNET group with certain capabilities provided by various SNET groups in SNET infrastructure where the optimum docking configuration is determined to include without limitation docking SNET group to both SNET group and SNET group to access the capabilities. The docking links and can be governed by a single docking specification some other combination of docking specifications that are part of SNET infrastructure some combination thereof or the like. In some embodiments docking links and docking specifications can be docked associated or the like in one to one type relationships one to many type relationships many to one type relationships some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments a docking process that associates SNET group with certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure via docking with both SNET group and SNET group may include arranging a presentation of the docking links so that a member accessing the capabilities does not see a full complexity of the docking links interactions and the like between various SNET groups devices SNET infrastructures and the like. In the illustrated embodiment for example a docking process for docking SNET group with SNET groups and may include arranging a presentation representative view or the like of the capabilities of SNET group that can be accessed by a member of SNET group to hide the fact that SNET group is docked via two docking links to two SNET groups. A simplified presentation representative view or the like may present only a view of SNET group being docked with certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure . In some embodiments a member can adjust toggle or otherwise manipulate the complexity of the presentation representative view or the like such that a partial or full view of the complexity of the docking links interactions and the like between the SNET infrastructures SNET groups social devices and the like is presented to a member.

In some embodiments establishing multiple docking links can provide additional security for access to certain capabilities. For example where a docking link between SNET group and SNET group provides a docking link with a higher security link to a certain capability than a docking link to SNET group an indirect link to SNET group via docking links and some combination thereof or the like the docking process may include establishing a docking link to provide a more secure link to a certain capability that a link used to access another capability. In some embodiments establishing multiple docking links can provide more efficient access to capabilities services and the like than a single docking link. For example where a docking process includes a determination that a docking link to both SNET group and SNET group can enable a more efficient access to certain capabilities of SNET infrastructure than a single docking link a docking process can include without limitation establishing multiple docking links and to SNET groups of SNET infrastructure .

In some embodiments a docking link between various SNET groups social devices and the like is managed based on various docking specifications. A docking specification can in some embodiments manage one or more particular docking links and set forth for example and not by way of limitation access limitations restrictions grants and the like associated with various capabilities of an SNET group security access requirements periods of access trigger events upon which access is to be altered restricted granted terminated or the like. For example as shown in the illustrated embodiment SNET group includes docking specifications and . Docking specification can in some embodiments govern the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . Docking specification can in some embodiments govern the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . A docking specification can be predetermined in part or in full by a member of SNET group in advance of a docking created on the fly as part of a docking process to dock SNET group to another SNET group provided by the SNET infrastructure an SNET group that attempts to dock with SNET group some combination thereof or the like. For example a member of SNET group may establish docking specification that restricts access by members of SNET group to capabilities provided by SNET group based upon a later trigger event including without limitation elapse of a period of time. In some embodiments a docking specification is specific to certain attributes of other SNET groups and devices such that the SNET group is docked to various SNET groups with correlating attributes. For example Docking specification may dictate that SNET group is to be docked via docking link to an SNET group that is associated with a geographic location that is within a predetermined threshold proximity to a geographic location associated with SNET group and that the docking link is to be restricted terminated or the like if the geographic location associated with SNET group ever exceeds the proximity threshold.

In some embodiments some or all of a docking specification can be adjusted managed altered created deleted or the like based upon an input from a user member SNET system SNET infrastructure docked device docked SNET group some combination thereof or the like. For example a member of SNET group may establish docking specification to govern docking link with SNET group to restrict access by a member of SNET group to certain capabilities of SNET group and then interact with SNET group SNET infrastructure some combination thereof or the like to alter docking specification to provide greater access by a member of SNET group to capabilities provided by SNET group . Such management of a docking specification can be performed at any time on the fly in an ad hoc process or the like with regard to an existing docking link a docking specification governing potential docking links some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments a docking specification governing a docking link between a higher tier SNET group and a lower tier SNET group is part of the higher tiered SNET group. For example in the illustrated embodiment where SNET group is a higher tiered SNET group and SNET groups and are lower tiered SNET groups the docking links and between the lower tiered SNET groups and and the higher tiered SNET group are governed by docking specifications and that are part of the higher tiered SNET group thereby enabling control by a higher tiered SNET group over docking links with lower tiered SNET groups.

In some embodiments a docking specification can be tailored by a user member SNET system SNET infrastructure SNET group social device some combination thereof or the like to provide various levels of interaction and access between various docked SNET groups. For example in the illustrated embodiment docking specification may dictate that docking link provides full bi directional interactions sharing of information services and the like between SNET groups and that are docked via docking link . In another example docking specification may dictate that docking link provides a one way group to group service access between SNET group and SNET group via docking link such that a member of SNET group can access at least some services provided by capabilities of SNET group but a member of SNET group cannot access some or all information services devices or the like associated with SNET group . For example where a hotel guest s SNET group is docked with a hotel s SNET group to grant the hotel guest access to hotel service capabilities via the hotel s SNET group a docking specification governing the docking link between the hotel guest s SNET group and the hotel s SNET group may specify that the hotel guest is restricted from accessing certain capabilities of the hotel s SNET group while the hotel s SNET group is restricted from accessing any of the capabilities of the hotel guest s SNET group including without limitation access to devices docked to the hotel guest s SNET group. As discussed above such access and interaction aspects of a docking specification can in some embodiments be altered at any time by various users members SNET groups SNET infrastructures and the like.

In some embodiments a docking specification places certain restrictions on capabilities of an SNET group that are provided offered or the like to members of docked SNET groups. For example docking specification may dictate that only certain capabilities of SNET group are to be provided to a member of SNET group via docking link . Docking specification may also dictate that each member of SNET group be provided with a distinct access to a distinct one or more capabilities of SNET group . For example docking specification may dictate that each member of SNET group be provided a unique access to one or more capabilities of SNET group .

In some embodiments a docking link between various SNET groups enables access by additional SNET groups to capabilities provided by SNET groups to which additional SNET groups are indirectly associated docked or the like. For example in the illustrated embodiments where SNET group is docked to SNET group via docking link SNET group is docked to SNET group via docking link . Docking link is governed by docking specification in SNET group . In some embodiments a member of SNET group may be granted access to at least some capabilities of SNET group to which a member of SNET group is granted access. Access to capabilities of SNET group by a member of SNET group can be determined by various docking specifications including without limitation docking specification that governs the docking link between SNET group and SNET group and docking specification that governs the docking link between SNET group and SNET group . For example docking specification may grant access by a member of SNET group to certain capabilities of SNET group via docking link by restrict access to capabilities of SNET group by a SNET group that is docked to SNET group . In another example docking specification may specify that a member of SNET group may access none some all or the like of the capabilities of other SNET groups including without limitation SNET group to which SNET group is docked.

In some embodiments various SNET groups can be docked to each other such that some or all of the docked SNET groups gain access or some or all of the capabilities of the other docked SNET groups. In the illustrated embodiment for example SNET infrastructure includes SNET group which is docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group and is also docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group . In addition SNET group is docked via docking link governed by docking specification to SNET group as a result SNET groups and are each docked to each other. The docking links between the SNET groups and can provide various levels of access including without limitation various levels of security. In addition in some embodiments docking to one of the SNET groups in SNET infrastructure can grant access to some or all of the capabilities of some or all of the SNET groups to which the one of the SNET groups is docked.

For example in the illustrated embodiment SNET group can be docked to SNET group via docking link . Communication flowing through the docking link can be subject to various docking specifications depending on the origin and destination of the communication flow. For example for media content originating from the SNET Group via group member devices storage or services associated directly with the SNET Group or the like a docking specification can govern any attempted access via a docking link to such media content. Such access can include without limitation receipt of media content delivery of media content identifying media content information associated with the media content some combination thereof or the like. For example where a foreign SNET group including without limitation an SNET group associated with a separate SNET infrastructure docks to an SNET Group that includes a first second and third media content originating from the SNET Group via group member devices storage or services associated directly with the SNET Group or the like the docking specification may specify that 1 the first media content is not to be identified to at least the foreign SNET group as existing 2 the second media content can be identified to at least the foreign SNET group as existing but requires a high level of DRM and is offered at a reduced quality 3 the third media can be identified to at least the foreign SNET group as existing and is offered in its original form without redistribution and consumption restrictions some combination thereof or the like. The docking specification may also limit access by the SNET Group allow application of the same or further restrictions already placed on the SNET Group SNET group some combination thereof or the like. Likewise docking specification limitations placed on data or media content originating from the SNET Group may permit chained access by the SNET Group some combination thereof or the like via a one or more of SNET group SNET group some combination thereof or the like.

In addition to various docking specification limitations applying to local group offerings various docking specification limitations may also apply to chained offerings. For example the SNET Group may freely provide access by any other SNET group via a direct docking link to SNET group via an indirect link via a docking link to an SNET group that is docked to SNET group some combination thereof or the like to all offerings including without limitation services content data access to docked devices some combination thereof or the like. Such freely provided access can be defined in some embodiments via the docking specification . However the docking specification may place restrictions on access via SNET group including without limitation not permitting any access knowledge of or the like with regard to some or all offerings from any external SNET group to which SNET group is docked including without limitation SNET Groups and . In this way depending on the docking linkage and chained SNET groups and device specifications offerings may be managed in various ways depending on underlying needs. In some embodiments such linkages and chain management of overall offerings apply twice one for each direction of access. For example offering restrictions associated with the SNET infrastructure can be completely different from those of the SNET infrastructure . In addition even though all relevant docking specifications within the SNET infrastructure may permit at least limited access to a particular offering to the SNET Group such access may not extend to for example the SNET Group due to a the docking specification placing further access restrictions beyond those required by the SNET infrastructure b a relevant docking specification within the SNET infrastructure may limit foreign linkages some combination thereof or the like.

For example in an ad hoc travel network docking configuration a personal SNET group construct of a traveler e.g. the SNET infrastructure might desire to provide very limited access to a hotel s SNET group construct e.g. the SNET infrastructure while in the other direction the hotel s SNET group construct offerings may be freely provided. Each construct need only provide access to whatever offerings membership identification information and the like that they would like to expose. A traveler may choose to expose for example a a payment service element located somewhere within the overall personal SNET group construct b the traveler s social smartphone s incoming message service c an administrator s incoming message service d a travel document storage service some combination thereof or the like while the hotel may choose to expose capabilities offerings and the like including without limitation 1 a regional directory a map and other information services 2 a concierge service 3 a billing service 4 a reservation service 5 networked office equipment some combination thereof or the like. Exposure in either case can be defined for example via various docking specifications associated with the originating SNET group as modified by the docking specifications associated with the SNET groups in the chain pathway to the destination.

In some embodiments docking specifications can be extended to provide resolution beyond that of a group level. For example the docking specification governing docking link may require human identification and various levels of security before providing access including even offering identification via docking link . In another example as defined by the docking specification a traveler which can be a member of the SNET Group may gain access to a particular offering provided by one element service or device participant in the SNET Group via a required secure interaction with the traveler s local social smart phone docked to SNET group but some or all other members of SNET group other SNET groups or the like may not gain access to the particular offering. In other words for one or more particular SNET group offerings capabilities offering identifiers and the like and for one or more particular group members membership information and the like particular chained docking specification details can be established to manage overall access including without limitation limited access. So although shown functionally as being distributed being associated with each link and the like chained docking specification flow can be managed by a single user interface and may be stored in a single database construct.

In some embodiments default docking specifications can apply a default treatment of offerings access interactions or the like with regard to one or more particular SNET groups but permit specific offering modifications other access modifications some combination thereof or the like where needed by authorized members devices SNET systems SNET groups SNET infrastructures some combination thereof or the like. Likewise overall default treatment can be modified as well.

In some embodiments a docking specification can be part of one or more SNET groups SNET infrastructures social device some other entity some combination thereof or the like. For example where a docking process to dock SNET group to SNET group is initiated by a device docked to SNET group docking specification may be a part of SNET group . In addition where a docking process to dock SNET group to SNET group includes some part of SNET infrastructure receiving and granting a docking request from some part of SNET infrastructure docking specification may be a part of SNET group . In some embodiments a docking request can include without limitation a request to dock one SNET group to another SNET group a request to provide a first SNET group s capabilities including without limitation services access to devices applications and the like to one or more devices docked to a second SNET group. A docking request can originate from a device docked to the first SNET group a device docked to the second SNET group a member of the first SNET group a member of the first SNET group a third party some combination thereof or the like.

By docking to SNET group SNET group may access some or all of the capabilities of SNET group and SNET group as specified by one or more of docking specifications and the like conversely where SNET group docks with SNET group SNET group may access some or all of the capabilities of SNET group and SNET group as specified by one or more of docking specifications and .

In some embodiments docking various SNET groups with various SNET groups in various SNET infrastructures can include various access restrictions and limitations. For example where SNET group is docked to SNET group which is docked to SNET group all within SNET infrastructure various levels of interaction and access by the various SNET groups can be determined via management of the various docking specifications and governing the docking links. All three docked SNET groups and can be enabled to have access to some or all of each other s capabilities SNE group may have access to capabilities of SNET group while SNET group has access to capabilities of SNET group SNET groups and may have access to each other s capabilities while SNET group has access to some of the capabilities of SNET group and some of the capabilities of SNET group some combination thereof or the like. Such interactions access dockings and the like may be performed without any interaction with a third party entity third party SNET group or the like.

In some embodiments where a third party entity third party SNET group or the like is involved in a docking link additional interaction with third party entity third party SNET group or the like is required. For example where SNET group is to be docked to SNET group where the respective SNET groups are part of separate SNET infrastructures associated with separate users members or the like docking access or the like may require interaction with a third party. Interaction may include without limitation a security challenge acceptance invitation or the like to a member of SNET group attempting to access a capabilities of SNET group . In some embodiments a docking process between SNET groups associated with separate SNET infrastructures users members or the like can be initiated managed or the like by various devices processing systems SNET systems SNET infrastructures or the like. For example a docking between SNET group and SNET group may be initiated managed or the like by one or more devices docked to SNET group one or more devices docked to SNET group one or more devices docked to a third party SNET group one or more processing systems one or more SNET infrastructures some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments a SNET travel group facilitates and or monitors travel activities activities associated with an aspect of a social device an aspect associated with the social device an SNET group associated with a member some combination thereof or the like. An activity can include one or more events which can include trigger events the occurrence of which can influence at least one aspect of the SNET group including without limitation membership information access some combination thereof or the like. The SNET travel group can be docked to SNET groups comprising entities relevant to one or more activities including without limitation travel companions family members friends and people to be visited restaurants coupon rebate services etc. A member of an SNET travel group which can be temporary or persistent can receive without limitation detailed hotel information including confirmations rates feedback amenities restaurant recommendations nearby attractions etc. an attendee list for a social event excursion babysitter monitoring services some combination thereof and the like. In some embodiments one or more elements associated with the SNET travel group can be managed by one or more processing systems server devices network nodes remote devices social devices or the like in response to one or more trigger events inputs from one or more SNET group members inputs from one or more SNET group nonmembers input from one or more devices some combination thereof or the like.

As shown in state at the beginning of the trip the SNET travel group includes two docked entities a social group associated with the traveler s wife and a social device associated with the individuals with whom the traveler is to meet at the destination. In some embodiments members of the SNET travel group can include an SNET account dedicated to the SNET travel group members such that any social device associated with the member is a part of the SNET travel group . In addition to the docked entities and the SNET travel group at state includes the traveler s flight itineraries and for his departure and return flights as well as information related to his hotel reservation. All of the above memberships and information can be added to altered and removed from the SNET travel group manually by the traveler or some other entity by a travel agency or device by a member of a docked group by a user of a docked device or some other internal logic of a social device SNET or the like.

As shown by line after the traveler completes his departure flight and arrives at his destination his SNET travel group adapts to state . The adaptation can be partially or fully implemented by manual input from the traveler to the SNET travel group automatically by a social device associated with the traveler a processing system infrastructure or the like to which the traveler has provided one or more authorizations association rules or the like that set conditions under which SNET groups social devices and the like having various attributes are to be docked granted more or less access and undocked as desired based upon one or more trigger events as determined by one or more social devices processing systems some combination thereof or the like. As the departure flight is completed the SNET travel group removes the departure flight itinerary from the information associated with the SNET travel group as that event has been completed. In addition in response to the change in location SNET travel group can dock to an SNET group associated with the traveler s hotel reservation and dock to one or more potential taxi cabs social devices in accommodation anticipation or the like of the traveler s likely needs.

As shown by line upon completion of the traveler s meeting and his preparation for his return flight SNET travel group has adapted to state in response to the completion of his meeting and his checking out of his hotel. As the traveler checks out of his hotel the hotel s SNET group and the taxi cab social devices are undocked from the SNET travel group while the hotel reservation information is removed from the SNET travel group . Also the meeting partners devices are undocked from the SNET travel group as the meeting is complete and they no longer have interest in the traveler s trip. The only remaining items included in or docked to SNET travel group are the traveler s upcoming return flight itinerary and the social group associated with the traveler s wife.

In some embodiments as a traveler s trip progresses adding altering and removing certain information docking to altering access for and undocking from certain devices and groups enables the traveler to interact with information and entities that are most relevant to the current and upcoming likely trip events such as reaching a new destination preparing for an event finding landmarks restaurants lodging and the like.

In accordance with various embodiments various techniques such as techniques described elsewhere herein can be employed to determine the existence and location of SNET infrastructures SNET groups SNET sub groups docked social devices some combination thereof or the like. Such location information can be utilized in a variety of ways including but not limited to those described below. For example SNET location services could utilize one or more of the following standards GPS LTE eNB IP address NFC Near Field Communication Bluetooth WiFi infrared etc. and of course account metadata. Cloud based storage can be utilized for various information including location e.g. GPS to extend social network functionalities for example automatic SNET grouping introductions automatic servicing selection of peripheral devices etc. . Location based groups might also be formed for travel tracking invites and timeouts etc. Location data as well as other factors can also be used in some embodiments to select online gaming competition teams. For example IP address selection can be conducted in a DNS like manner for a relevant domain name. In operation a SNET SNET group of game players or the like can be formed based on location factors SNET SNET group attributes network attributes some combination thereof or the like.

In some embodiments an SNET group member can dock an SNET group including without limitation a SNET travel group to one or more SNET infrastructures SNET groups or the like to engage in gaming and gambling actions. For example a traveler entering a casino arcade or the like may add a gambling credit account to his SNET travel group and utilize the account to interact with and play various gambling and gaming activities. In some other embodiments an SNET member can establish a game over a network by adding a social gaming device to an SNET group. Also SNET members can be in some embodiments added to one or more SNET groups dedicating to gaming activities based upon certain information associated with the SNET member such as device connection speed device capabilities gaming score or the like.

The method continues in step with the creation of one or more SNET groups or sub groups e.g. a merged SNET group including the docked SNET groups and a selection of the social devices applications services other social resources some combination thereof or the like having related or specific characteristics and interdependencies etc. In one embodiment the SNET groups and social resources may be docked through a drag and drop user interface or other means. In step access tiers and views are manually or automatically defined for select personal information SNET group information social resource information social device information and other affiliated resources. This step may be conducted in whole or part by means of a pop up table or form that requests tier settings and allows for personal tailoring of same. The some part of an SNET infrastructure may select a particular SNET group social device SNET member device or human or self associated with one or more SNET groups and SNET devices to reveal tier characteristics and allow modification of access rights. In some circumstances selection of access rights may be based on profile data and other characteristics of a particular device user or group seeking access to social resources. Further distinct access rights including content and capabilities access views may be assigned to different social device resources or groupings of resources or to a particular request for access to social resources.

In step access tier view characteristics are communicated to authorized merged SNET group members which may include social devices including the member s social devices human members a SNET or one or more SNET groups. Next in step social resources are allocated in accordance with the access tiers and views communicated in step . Allocation of a social device resource may entail for example allocating the resource for dedicated use by a member of a docked SNET group either on a persistent or temporary basis subject to reallocation. Subsequent reallocation may occur for example if access to a previously allocated social device resource is requested by a member or non member of a second SNET group having a higher priority or superior access rights to the resource. In some embodiments social resources may be dynamically offered and allocated if when and to the extent such resources become available. Management of social resource reserves including termination of related services may be performed by individual devices groupings of devices and or centralized or distributed SNET processing circuitry including without limitation one or more processing systems and software.

Established levels of access rights are then applied to permit access to and allocation of the social resource in step . If conflicting modified or additional requests for access are identified in step reallocation and or arbitration is performed in step as necessary to address conflicts or otherwise service such requests. In one embodiment wherein a particular SNET group social device user associated with one or more SNET group or social device some combination thereof or the like requires or requests a relatively large percentage of available resources access may be denied or restricted including on a temporary or persistent basis. Alternatively other capable and available social resources may be employed to resolve such requests. Potential overuse or abusive use of an SNET resource may be detected by SNET monitoring functionality including without limitation one or more processing systems devices network nodes some combination thereof or the like that employs static or dynamic thresholds.

Referring now to a logic diagram of an embodiment of a method for controlling operation of an SNET group in accordance with various embodiments is shown. Upon activating or docking a social device first SNET group SNET sub group a social device docked to the first SNET group or the like to a second SNET group an SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems devices and the like associated with an SNET infrastructure or the like account information is automatically or via a setup up prompt provided to the social device first SNET group SNET sub group a social device docked to the first SNET group or the like. Next in step operational control of a social resource associated with the second SNET group an SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems devices and the like associated with an SNET infrastructure or the like group which can include without limitation a service device access application social resource some combination thereof or the like is conferred to a node of the social device first SNET group SNET sub group a social device docked to the first SNET group or the like. This node then generates contextually appropriate control signals as shown in step .

In step the control signals and contextually related applications are communicated to the second SNET group an SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems devices and the like associated with an SNET infrastructure or the like via a standardized communication protocol . In response to the control signals the second SNET group an SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems devices or the like associated with an SNET infrastructure or the like performs one or more functions either automatically or as authorized by a user in step . In subsequent step control of the second SNET group an SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems devices and the like associated with an SNET infrastructure or the like is terminated or relinquished to a user processing system device some other entity some other SNET node some combination thereof or the like.

In certain embodiments some SNET groups may support only one member interaction at a time with or without simultaneously supporting the underlying owner member. Other SNET groups may support many multiple members devices humans accessing capabilities provided by the SNET groups as well as having dedicated functionality reserved for an owner. A standardized or manufacturer proprietary approach to control and certification marking may account for such variations in SNET group capabilities. Monitoring and snooping of content e.g. for purposes of protecting copyright owners and like functionality could also be accomplished through compliance with a standardized protocol.

Referring now to a social network circle group hereinafter Social networking group social networking circle SNET circle SNET group or the like comprising social devices with is shown. Beyond traditional social networking features and services an SNET group and associated social devices according to various embodiments include numerous novel features and attributes as described more fully below with general reference to the illustration.

Briefly membership in the SNET group may comprise docked social devices with resources that are accessible to other members of the SNET group and human SNET group members as well as proxies thereof. Further SNET group nodes may include device services and software e.g. applications of various types participating as members. By way of example SNET group members might include artificial intelligence agents social robots SNET security device s appliances vehicles and service providers common or authorized members functionality of other SNET groups etc. Further access to specific content and resources of a SNET group may be shared with members of additional SNET s including remote or web based applications. Such access can be conditioned on acceptable profiling and association data. Similarly social devices SNET groups individuals or the like may be granted temporary or ad hoc memberships with or without restricted access.

In the illustrated embodiment formation maintenance and operation of SNET group is performed by one or more SNET processing systems and software . A processing system can include without limitation one or more instances of standalone SNET processing circuitry one or more instances of distributed SNET processing circuitry located on one or more devices social devices server devices network nodes and the like. It is noted that the SNET processing circuitry may comprise hardware software applications or various combinations thereof and be configurable to support various functionalities disclosed herein. Further the SNET processing system may be included in a standalone server server farm cloud based resources and or the various types of devices described below and incorporate authentication and security functionality . In addition specialized middleware may also be utilized by SNETs according to various embodiments including standardized middleware or standardized communication protocols with an associated certification process. Interactions and interdependencies within the SNET group may involve one or more of an adaptive resource management allocation and arbitration module a social device association control module and a SNET group member profiling module as described more fully below.

Distribution of internal and external SNET content media can be accomplished in a variety of ways in accordance with various embodiments. For example media distribution may involve an adaptive or parallel network routing infrastructure involving a wide variety of communication protocols and wired and or wireless communications channels. SNET content media may comprise for example various user driven advertising channels pictures videos links online text etc. Access to such content as well as communications with and remote access to social devices of the SNET group may occur over an Internet backbone cellular communication system WAN LAN etc.

A member of a SNET in accordance with various embodiments such as those disclosed herein may establish permissions and or privacy settings that control and restrict who or what may access the member s profile s information connections and groups as well as define desired degrees of access. Permissions may enable the user to maintain certain information as private or available on a permissive basis only. For example visibility of specified user information may be limited to users devices in a SNET s . Alternatively specified user information may be publicly available. Likewise a SNET member may selectively decide to permit others to access personal information such as name gender contact information email address etc.

The SNET infrastructure of the illustrated embodiment includes a number of functions and resources to support formation and maintenance of a SNET having social device members. In particular member report management and processing receives information from SNET group member reporting functions in associated social devices . Such information may include for example status data regarding the location address and activities of a social device and or device user.

In addition the social device may provide device information indicating for example device functions and social capabilities device model number s device configurations software versions attached peripherals and downstream social devices device resources and usage etc. Device information relating to available resources and current resource usage may be utilized by the SNET infrastructure for purposes of SNET resource management including dynamic resource allocation and arbitration.

In various embodiments the social device may have an obligation to gather store and or report device status information at different times. For example reporting may be required upon affiliation or docking with a SNET on a periodic basis and or during operational engagements with other intra and inter SNET resources and devices including upstream and downstream devices .

Referring again to the SNET infrastructure additional functionality and resources include without limitation SNET member information capture and storage management a SNET application programming interface API that allows SNET associated software components to communicate with each other access control management and security for maintaining the integrity of the SNET and affiliated data resources and Web server services . The social network infrastructure further comprises other group application services corresponding to the foregoing as well as additional services such as those described herein. In one exemplary embodiment the SNET infrastructure might determine e.g. by means of device information the category and nature of a social device wishing to participate in a SNET. As necessary functionality in the SNET infrastructure could then direct or trigger installation of appropriate application software and underlying drivers in the social device . Such operations might be performed with minimal involvement from inherent functions of the social device .

In the illustrated embodiment the social device comprises a number of additional social device resources including for example the social resources described in conjunction with as well as device status information and functions and resources to support participation in a social network. More particularly SNET SNET and or member control functions may include slave functions master functions and various combinations thereof. Slave functions include for example device re configuration directed resource allocation managed resource arbitration bridging operations etc. Master functions enable the social device to establish manage and terminate various interactions between nodes or groups of nodes in a social network including interactions involving the social device itself.

The social device further includes a social API and browser based interaction capabilities to support for example relevant social applications and services which might comprise slave and master functions and . Access control including access views provided to other SNET group members and security layers permit the social device to interface with or establish secure SNET groups circles and control access to internal and external SNET resources as described more fully below.

It is noted that numerous of the functional building blocks of the embodiment illustrated by may be incorporated in whole or part in one or more application specific integrated circuit devices. For example an integrated circuit device may comprise a member reporting module to provide member reporting functionality including communication of device status and device characteristics device control capabilities master slave functions security and access control modules etc. Such an integrated circuit device may also include onboard processing capabilities and or interface with a processor device. Alternatively several of the functions described above may be incorporated in whole or part into an operating system and or software loaded above an operating system kernel.

Referring now to a schematic block diagram is shown for a social device operable to support various resource access interactions with other social devices and social systems in accordance with various embodiments. The social device is configured with a variety of functions that enable it to operate in a social device hierarchy comprising social S devices social parent SP devices and social child SC devices. For example a social parent device may enable a docked social child device to access resources of the parent device and or connect to and interact with directly or indirectly with a social network. The social child device may be configured with inherent social capabilities or gain access to such capabilities from or through an associated parent device. Further a human SNET member might have associated social child devices or be served by a social parent device via a user I O interface .

A social device according to various embodiments and applications may also concurrently or selectively function as a social device SP device SC device or even a grandparent device that supports e.g. in a multi hop environment a parent device in a SNET group. Dynamic and static hierarchical associations between SP and SC devices may be established in a selective automatic or automated manner. Further a social device may take many forms including without limitation a smartphone personal computer server tablet device access point gateway network switch hub bridging device set top box or other device enabled with social capabilities.

In the illustrated embodiment the social device is communicatively coupled to a SNET infrastructure and or social parent system via upstream social communication interface circuitry . Likewise downstream social peer and or child communication interface circuitry enables coupling with a social child device social peer device and or social parent system device . Social resources of both upstream and downstream devices may be accessible to one another via the social device .

The social device of this embodiment includes social resources that along with external SNET resources are managed by a social resource management module and accessible to at least one other SNET group member. Specific social resources may include user I O interfaces general purpose and dedicated hardware processing circuitry peripheral circuitry and components which may or may not have social capabilities communication bandwidth and credit determination functionality switching bridging functions application software and services remote social resources of the SNET group external social resources controlled by the social device etc. The external social resources may comprise for example an external media digital library or content from one or more of cable satellite and or terrestrial televisions systems.

Among other functions the social resource management module comprises access allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality as well as the functionality for establishing regaining and relinquishing control processing operations including operations involving access to social resources . It is noted that counterpart social resource management functionality may be present in the SNET infrastructure and or other SNET nodes.

In one exemplary embodiment wherein the social device comprises a switching bridge bandwidth capacity may be dynamically allocated by access allocation arbitration and scheduling functionality . Access to bandwidth capacity and other resources of the social device might be available only upon request per access views or per allocation and arbitration functions and selectively terminated when excessive bandwidth resources are consumed or requested.

In the illustrated embodiment a member or device of a SNET group or alternatively an unaffiliated entity accesses social device group resources associated with the SNET group via a resource management node . The resource management node comprises access rights access views dynamic re allocation functionality arbitration functionality and security functionality .

In operation the access rights and access views control differing access levels and access visibility for a member s personal information device information data processing and storage capabilities and other social resources. Access rights and access views can be predefined for example based on a SNET group based on co member devices or based on member s own device to device interactions. Such predefinition can be tailored dynamically as needed or as relationships change. Access rights may also be expanded to support temporary interaction with a guest member or visitor device. For example a visiting member with a smart phone may be permitted to receive provide media to a social device residing in a home group. 

In some embodiments a member of the SNET group can adjust and modify access rights on an information by information basis device by device basis member by member basis etc. Through access views the member might also present itself in various ways depending on context location or use based considerations. For example a member icon avatar may present differing characteristics or capabilities that are context dependent including work home or social settings. Allocation and as necessary dynamic reallocation of social resources is performed by dynamic re allocation functionality and arbitration functionality . Access to social resources can be preconditioned on secure access authentication performed by security functionality .

In addition to social device group resources the SNET group might include for example a SNET server and one or more members and affiliated social devices services applications files web pages connections and other social resources. As will be appreciated a member which can include without limitation a human member device member and the like can establish selective or tiered access to personal information and associated social device profiles and other resources as described above. In certain embodiments the resource management node may be incorporated in the SNET server or other SNET social device or administered by a SNET hosting infrastructure in a standalone manner distributed manner or the like. Further the SNET server may include a firewall operable to provide secure access and perform basic routing functions.

Access to social device circle resources by nodes of the SNET group may occur in a variety of ways including via a user interface UI utilized by one or more humans . The UI might comprise a graphical user interface GUI or browser that graphically indicates available resources voice controls gesture commands etc. Access to the SNET group can also be managed by a proxy server . The proxy server functions as an intermediary for access requests from proxy clients including social devices connected to the proxy server via the Internet or other IP based networks seeking to communicate with the SNET group . Social devices affiliated with a SNET may have the capacity to interact directly with the SNET group . It is noted that the human members proxy server and social devices may operate independently of a SNET group sub group. Further the proxy server may be a distributed or cloud based entity or a member of or incorporated in a member of either the SNET group sub group or SNET group .

In one embodiment the social device server includes a shim layer or client driver that enables communications with a central SNET management node SNET infrastructure one or more processing systems SNET members and other compatible devices including social devices that may not fully support a SNET group communication protocol some combination thereof or the like. The shim layer or client driver may be installed through a SNET node or local storage or downloaded from a manufacturer website or cloud based resource. Such installation may occur automatically upon power up or activation of the social device server or as directed by other SNET nodes.

Management of and access to SNET resources utilizing the communication and control protocol may be performed by a central management node of a SNET group or SNET hosting infrastructure. The central management node may include integrated artificial intelligence and or present itself through a persona or avatar . In addition distributed and delegated control mechanisms including ad hoc or remote operations that span one or more SNETs permit one member to interact with their own or another member s social devices via an SNET or SNET defined pathways.

In some embodiments a standardized version of communication and control protocol referred to herein as a SNET 1.0 standard for sake of brevity is employed to facilitate such SNET interactions and possibly obviate the need for a shim layer in compliant social devices having defined device type characteristics . Various control operations according to an SNET 1.0 standard may include automated and ad hoc SNET group association as well as support functions such as automated SNET resource offerings automated device registration and configuration upgrade and update maintenance device to device communication session management tunneling encapsulation functions proxy services social resource allocation etc. For example through docking of an affiliated social device in a SNET group a member may desire to access and control their own remote docked devices as well as remote docked devices of other members either directly or via a further user device. In some embodiments such interaction may be facilitated through a SNET 1.0 compliant approach.

SNET 1.0 compliant devices may be designated as SNET 1.0 Certified for example and provide both system on a chip SoC hardware and software support peculiar to a particular device family. By way of example a SNET 1.0 Certified NAS might have storage related defined control capabilities that include default access tier definitions as described herein security and DRM features etc. Such control capabilities differ from for example a SNET 1.0 Certified STB which might have multiple tuners pipelines for delivering streaming video with certain tuners pipelines reserved for the device owner according to a setup procedure . Social devices may be configured manually or through factory staged settings and security to delegate membership control to a SNET 1.0 group server for further applications such as those described below.

Although SNET sub groups and are illustrated as separate sub groups such sub groups may instead comprise a single SNET group or sub group or any number of additional SNET groups SNET sub groups or the like each of which may include various combinations of social devices . Further SNET processing circuitry and software of the illustrated embodiment manages formation and operation of the SNET group . The SNET processing circuitry and software may be incorporated in a standalone server social devices and or cloud based resources. The SNET group may be persistent or of limited duration and include ad hoc and or static associations.

Social devices may be broadly categorized as i social devices that include a user or SNET group interface sufficient to provide meaningful input to SNET interaction ii social devices that support minimal or no user input relevant to SNET interaction some combination thereof or the like. More particularly and without limitation the first category may include computers tablet devices IPTVs IPTV set top boxes smart phones servers laptops cloudbooks network attached storage devices gaming consoles media players sources communication nodes access points routers switches gateways etc. user interface devices power line communication PLC devices etc. Such social devices may receive user input for SNET setup and management. The second category may include again without limitation printers projectors cameras and camcorders scanners speakers headsets smoke detectors alarm systems video cameras mice etc. In general dockable social devices include any electronic device that could be operably coupled to or docked in a SNET group sub group via wired or wireless pathways to participate as a SNET member.

As will be appreciated by docking social devices members of a SNET group may gain full or partial remote control and interaction such devices via an authorized member SNET account. For example family members authorized to participate in a family SNET group may remotely access docked social devices via one or more associated SNET accounts. Various embodiments for docking and accessing social devices are described more fully below e.g. in conjunction with .

In one embodiment either the SNET gateway or SNET group gateway functions as a proxy for the social device . Proxy functionality within the SNET gateway may be provided by a software application or a computer system server that functions as an intermediary for requests from clients including connected social devices seeking resources from other servers or gateways such as SNET gateway . Such resources might include files services web pages connections profiling information and other available social device resources and other group resources .

The SNET gateway may evaluate requests from social devices according to various filtering rules. For example the SNET gateway might filter traffic by IP address or protocol. Once a request from the social device validated if necessary the SNET gateway connects to the SNET group gateway over a WLAN LAN or other communication path and requests access to resources of the SNET group sub group on behalf of the social device .

Membership in the SNET group sub group is established through a docking module of SNET processing circuitry and software which may support one or more device discovery and configuration protocols including standardized protocols. When group membership is restricted a local or cloud based registrar can be employed to provide authentication. The registrar of the illustrated embodiment may utilize an administrator or a directory service such as a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP based directory server that stores attribute data. LDAP is a well known application protocol for querying and modifying items in directory service. When docking with an IP based SNET group a social device may broadcast profile data to the local domain using a textual data format such as Extensible Markup Language XML .

The access and allocation management functionality comprises access rights access control functions arbitration and dynamic re allocation and access view control . Exemplary operation of such functions is described in conjunction with various other Figures herein. Servicing of requests for access to social resources may be carried out for example via a browser and or downloaded or preinstalled applications . In certain embodiments access to social resources is conditioned upon authentication or security operations . In addition various functional blocks of the social device may be incorporated into one or more integrated circuit devices which may be dedicated to support a primary user and or shared access operations.

The social device further includes processing circuitry operable to process and manage communications services and associations between the device and other entities including members of a SNET SNET group SNET sub group third parties software agents etc. More particularly the processing circuitry may include for example a software management application comprising one or more of docking logic including support for device discovery and configuration protocols such as described below communication protocol control resource management and security authentication functionality.

The social device further may utilize profile information and other resources that may take many forms and be maintained in static or dynamic memory . Such profile information enables a social device and or user to present an image of itself and its capabilities to other members of a SNET. In particular device group profile information and other resources and user profile information may be utilized in various ways in accordance with various embodiments to facilitate a variety of social interactions. Depending on the capabilities and requirements of a particular device and other members of a SNET a device or user profile may be static or dynamic.

In certain embodiments the social device may interact with a user s via user interface circuitry . User input to the social device may include for example data entry through a keypad touchscreen remote control device gaming controller device control buttons voice or gesture commands storage device etc. Authorized access to or control of the social device can be facilitated through unique biometric identifiers passwords token based identification trusted authorities or documents such as a driver s license or passport and like authentication means.

The social device may perform core or underlying functionality . Alternatively the social device may primarily function as a social networking interface or communication device or be programmable to perform specific functions within a SNET group sub group.

As may be used herein the terms substantially and approximately provides an industry accepted tolerance for its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to fifty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As may also be used herein the term s operably coupled to coupled to and or coupling includes direct coupling between items and or indirect coupling between items via an intervening item e.g. an item includes but is not limited to a component an element a circuit and or a module where for indirect coupling the intervening item does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As may further be used herein inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two items in the same manner as coupled to . As may even further be used herein the term operable to or operably coupled to indicates that an item includes one or more of power connections input s output s etc. to perform when activated one or more its corresponding functions and may further include inferred coupling to one or more other items. As may still further be used herein the term associated with includes direct and or indirect coupling of separate items and or one item being embedded within another item. As may be used herein the term compares favorably indicates that a comparison between two or more items signals etc. provides a desired relationship. For example when the desired relationship is that signal has a greater magnitude than signal a favorable comparison may be achieved when the magnitude of signal is greater than that of signal or when the magnitude of signal is less than that of signal .

As may also be used herein the terms processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may be a single processing device or a plurality of processing devices. Such a processing device may be a microprocessor micro controller digital signal processor microcomputer central processing unit field programmable gate array programmable logic device state machine logic circuitry analog circuitry digital circuitry and or any device that manipulates signals analog and or digital based on hard coding of the circuitry and or operational instructions. The processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit may have an associated memory and or an integrated memory element which may be a single memory device a plurality of memory devices and or embedded circuitry of the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit. Such a memory device may be a read only memory random access memory volatile memory non volatile memory static memory dynamic memory flash memory cache memory and or any device that stores digital information. Note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit includes more than one processing device the processing devices may be centrally located e.g. directly coupled together via a wired and or wireless bus structure or may be distributedly located e.g. cloud computing via indirect coupling via a local area network and or a wide area network . Further note that if the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit implements one or more of its functions via a state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry the memory and or memory element storing the corresponding operational instructions may be embedded within or external to the circuitry comprising the state machine analog circuitry digital circuitry and or logic circuitry. Still further note that the memory element may store and the processing module module processing circuit and or processing unit executes hard coded and or operational instructions corresponding to at least some of the steps and or functions illustrated in one or more of the Figures. Such a memory device or memory element can be included in an article of manufacture.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. Further the boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention. One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

The present invention may have also been described at least in part in terms of one or more embodiments. An embodiment of the present invention is used herein to illustrate the present invention an aspect thereof a feature thereof a concept thereof and or an example thereof. A physical embodiment of an apparatus an article of manufacture a machine and or of a process that embodies the present invention may include one or more of the aspects features concepts examples etc. described with reference to one or more of the embodiments discussed herein. Further from figure to figure the embodiments may incorporate the same or similarly named functions steps modules etc. that may use the same or different reference numbers and as such the functions steps modules etc. may be the same or similar functions steps modules etc. or different ones.

Unless specifically stated to the contra signals to from and or between elements in a figure of any of the figures presented herein may be analog or digital continuous time or discrete time and single ended or differential. For instance if a signal path is shown as a single ended path it also represents a differential signal path. Similarly if a signal path is shown as a differential path it also represents a single ended signal path. While one or more particular architectures are described herein other architectures can likewise be implemented that use one or more data buses not expressly shown direct connectivity between elements and or indirect coupling between other elements as recognized by one of average skill in the art.

The term module is used in the description of the various embodiments of the present invention. A module includes a functional block that is implemented via hardware to perform one or module functions such as the processing of one or more input signals to produce one or more output signals. The hardware that implements the module may itself operate in conjunction software and or firmware. As used herein a module may contain one or more sub modules that themselves are modules.

While particular combinations of various functions and features of the present invention have been expressly described herein other combinations of these features and functions are likewise possible. The present invention is not limited by the particular examples disclosed herein and expressly incorporates these other combinations.

