---

title: Implicit determination of referral sources for subscriptions to channels
abstract: This disclosure relates to systems and methods for determining source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events to channels, indicating referring sources from which subscribers initiated the events, and presenting the source information to content providers of the channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898270&OS=08898270&RS=08898270
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08898270
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
This disclosure generally relates to systems and methods that facilitate identifying sources that drive subscribers to subscribe or unsubscribe to content.

The internet allows individuals and other entities to easily provide content to a vast population of content consumers. For example an individual with a camcorder can create videos and post them on the internet for viewing at a global scale. Portals have developed that allow an entity to create a channel under which content they have provided can be organized. Content consumers that desire access to such content can subscribe to the channel and be proactively informed when content associated with the channel is updated and available. Content consumers can also unsubscribe from the channel when they no longer have interest in the content. In many cases there are benefits for content providers to have a large subscription base to their content such as for example financial and notoriety. Accordingly content providers are incentivized to understand the reasoning behind why respective users subscribe to or unsubscribe from their content channel.

Conventionally this is accomplished through explicit methods such as for example surveying users or by explicitly linking or joining the subscribe or unsubscribe event for a particular channel to the source content or universal resource locator URL from which the event took place. However there are systems where such explicit methods are not available or suitable e.g. for technology or performance reasons or not desired for privacy reasons .

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in simplified form as a prelude to more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow in the disclosure.

In accordance with an implementation a logging component generates one or more logs containing log entries related to subscriptions to channels of content and a source determination component analyzes the one or more logs to infer source information indicating a referring source associated with a completed subscribe or unsubscribe event.

In accordance with another non limiting implementation one or more logs are generated containing log entries related to subscriptions to channels of content. The one or more logs are analyzed and inferences are made regarding source information that indicate a referring source associated with a completed subscribe or unsubscribe event.

Various aspects or features of this disclosure are described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In this specification numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. It should be understood however that certain aspects of this disclosure may be practiced without these specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing this disclosure.

In accordance with various disclosed aspects source information is provided identifying sources that drive subscribers to subscribe or unsubscribe to a content provider s channel. A channel can include any type of content for example video audio image text or any combination thereof that a content provider makes available to a population of users. A content consumer can choose to subscribe to a channel that has content of interest. For example the content consumer can watch a video on a channel and opt to subscribe to the channel using a subscription link associated with the video. In another example a portion of audio content from a channel may be embedded in a music blog on another website. A content consumer reading the blog and listening to the audio content could subscribe to the channel using a subscription link associated with the audio content. In an additional example a content consumer already be subscribed to a channel that contains video may be reading an annotation added by the content provider associated with a video and decide to unsubscribe from the channel using an unsubscribe link associated with the annotation.

As noted above content providers can benefit from having information that identifies the source s for the subscribe or unsubscribe events. Referring back to the examples provided above in the first example knowing that users subscribed while watching a particular video can be an indication that the video was particularly good and the content provider may desire to provide additional videos with similar content. In the audio content example above a content provider may be interested to know that a particular music blog is driving subscriptions to their channel and may reach out to the music blog author. Similarly the content provider may want to be aware of content such as an annotation they added that is driving users to unsubscribe as this may be in indication that the annotation was offensive. Given source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events a content provider can tailor content and relationships with other web sites to increase subscriptions.

In one or more embodiments the disclosed aspects relate to employing implicit methods for determining or inferring referring source information in a system where explicit methods of tracking such source information are not employed and presenting the inferred source information to a content provider. A source for a subscribe or unsubscribe event for a channel can be for example a web page within the channel content within the channel another channel a page within another website a search engine an advertisement or any other type of internet location from which a content consumer can initiate a subscribe or unsubscribe action associated with the channel. Moreover a content consumer can initiate a subscribe or unsubscribe from an internet location such as a selectable link or button that can be completed at another internet location for example on a page within the channel. Furthermore a content consumer can choose not to complete the subscribe or unsubscribe once directed to another location for completion. This is particularly relevant as there may be a separate log which records the source from which the content consumer was referred that is different from a log which records completed subscribe and unsubscribe events. As such it may be advantageous to make inferences to determine the relationship between completed subscribe or unsubscribe events and their referring source.

Accordingly described below are several non limiting embodiments that provide source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events in content subscription systems. Such embodiments may be particularly beneficial in content subscription systems that lack explicit tracking for this source information.

Referring now to the drawings provide details regarding a subscription content component and its interaction with content providers and subscribers also herein referred to as content consumers or users . With reference initially to a system that provides source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events is depicted. System includes a subscription content component that determines source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events from subscribers to channels and presents the source information to content providers .

Subscription content component includes a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory a non limiting example of which can be found with reference to . In one implementation subscription content component can be incorporated into a content system e.g. that of a cable television provider satellite television provider internet service provider digital subscriber line provider mobile telecommunications provider cellular provider radio provider internet portal or any other type of system that allows entities to provide content via wired or wireless mediums that provides content to subscribers .

Subscription content component includes an analytics component that determines source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events to channels and presents the source information to content providers . Subscription content component further includes a logging component that logs interactions with subscription content component . Additionally subscription content component includes a data store that stores data generated by the analytics component and logging component . Furthermore data store can store content provided by content providers that can be provided to subscribers in channels . Alternatively it is to be understood that content can be stored at the content providers and accessed by subscribers through subscription content component organized in channels . For example channels can have links to content or redirect subscribers to content at channel providers or a different content storage location. Channels comprise any number of channels to N where N is in integer indicating number of channels. Likewise there can be any suitable number of content providers including a sole content provider can provide content for the channels . A content provider can be an entity such as for example an individual group of individuals organization business electronic device or computing process that can provide content. Furthermore there can be any number of subscribers and a subscriber can subscribe to any number of channels . It is to be understood that a subscriber can be any entity such as an individual group of individuals organization business electronic device or computing process that can subscribe to content. Data store can be stored on any suitable type of storage device non limiting examples of which are illustrated with reference to .

With continued reference to logging component generates various logs that records interactions of content providers subscribers and other websites with subscription content component and one or more channels of channels . For example logs can record subscribers requests for content or requests to subscribe or unsubscribe to channels . In another example logs can record adding deleting or modifying of channels or content by content providers . In an additional example logs can record links to or embedding of content from a channel in other channels or websites. For example a literary blog may embed a poem from a channel in their blog or a content provider may provide a link in an annotation of their content to content in another channel. Continuing with this example a search engine may provide links to or embed content in search results. It is to be understood that these are non limiting examples of logging information and that any suitable type of data related to interactions of content providers subscribers and other websites with subscription content component and channels can be recording in logs.

Referring to analytics component is illustrated in greater detail. Analytics component determines source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events and presents the source information to content providers . Analytics component includes source determination component that infers or determines sources for subscribe and unsubscribe events to channels . Analytics component further includes presentation component that generates displays or reports of the source information to present to content providers .

Source determination component analyzes logs in data store to infer or determine a source from which a subscribe or unsubscribe event was initiated. For example entries from a log that records subscribe and unsubscribe events can be analyzed to infer related entries from a disparate log that records referring sources to subscribe and unsubscribe link requests. It is to be appreciated that the logs generated by logging component unlike conventional methods may not record uniquely identifiable information common to both logs that can be directly linked or joined to make an explicit connection between the entries from one log to another log. Furthermore while the example described herein discloses multiple logs entries can be of differing types in a single log where differing entry types may not have uniquely identifiable information common to both entry types that can be directly linked or joined to make an explicit connection between two log entries. Additionally source determination component can derive information from log entries for example through extrapolation interpolation approximation calculation association combination searching or by any other technique by which additional information can be derived from existing data. For example an Internet Protocol IP address captured from a network or a GPS coordinates captured from a mobile device if such data is available can be used to approximate a geographic location. Source determination component can employ the derived information to infer relationships between entries of a single log or plurality of logs. Source determination component can also determine a confidence score for source information indicating a level of confidence in the accuracy of the source information.

Referring to a non limiting example WEB LOG and CHANNEL LOG are depicted respectively for channels of video content. WEB LOG has five log entries A E and CHANNEL LOG has four log entries A D. WEB LOG entry A for example shows a date and time of Jan. 25 2011 at 9 45 56 AM along with a URL request of subscribe a referring URL from vidid1 and an ipaddress1 from which the request occurred. The other WEB LOG entries B E have similar information specific to the transaction recorded. CHANNEL LOG entry A for example shows a date and time of Jan. 25 2011 at 9 45 56 AM along with an event of SUBSCRIBE target for the event indicating CHANNEL 1 and the country from which the event took place indicating US . Similarly CHANNEL LOG entries B D have information specific to the transaction recorded. It should be noted that neither log has uniquely identifiable information that is common to both logs and can be explicitly linked or joined between the logs. Conventionally for example a unique transaction identifier or uniquely identifiable information for a subscriber may be recorded that is common to both logs such that an explicit connection can be made between an entry of one log to an entry of the other log. However as noted above technology performance privacy or other reasons may limit or prevent recording information to make such an explicit link. As such relationships between an entry of one log to an entry of another log may require implicitly inferring such relationships.

While examples herein depict logs with log entries such as a log file it is to be appreciated that the various aspects and features of this disclosure are also applicable to databases. For example a database may not have uniquely identifiable information that is common to a set of tables that allow for explicit matching or linking of databases records such as a key. As such implicit determinations as discussed herein can be employed to match or link database records.

Furthermore the example in depicts date and time stamps that may seem as first glance to be uniquely identifiable information that is common to both logs that allows for explicitly linking or joining of log entries. However in that example the date and time stamp are not uniquely identifiable information that is common to both logs and can be explicitly linked or joined between the logs. This may be because of for example a lack of sufficient precision in the time a lack of clock synchronization between clocks used for the two logs and or the date and time stamps being associated with different time zones.

Continuing with reference to along with reference to source determination component can analyze WEB LOG and CHANNEL LOG and make inferences in order to determine which entry in WEB LOG may be associated with an entry in CHANNEL LOG . In this example source determination component may examine the log entries temporally to identify log entries having the same or close timestamps. For example source determination component can determine that CHANNEL LOG entry A has a date and time of Jan. 25 2011 at 9 45 56 AM which is the same date and time of WEB LOG entry A and does not appear to be near in time to the other WEB LOG entries B E. For further confirmation that these two entries are related source determination component can determine that the requested URL including subscribe for WEB LOG entry A corresponds to the event of SUBSCRIBE of CHANNEL LOG entry A. Additionally source determination component may derive information from log entries. For example continuing with the analysis source determination component can examine the referrer URL of WEB LOG entry A and by examining information in data store determine that vidid1 corresponds to a video that is included in CHANNEL 1 which corresponds to the target CHANNEL 1 of CHANNEL LOG entry A. As an additional confirmation source determination component can for example examine another data repository or perform an internet search to determine that ipaddress1 of WEB LOG entry A corresponds to an Internet address in the United States and determine that this location corresponds to the country US of CHANNEL LOG entry A. Using the results of the analysis source determination component can infer that WEB LOG entry A corresponds and is likely a referring source to the subscribe event of CHANNEL LOG entry A. Source determination component can perform a similar analysis to infer that WEB LOG entry B corresponds to the UNSUBSCRIBE event of CHANNEL LOG entry B.

Examining CHANNEL LOG entries C D source determination component can determine that they have the same date and time of Jan. 25 2011 at 9 46 04 AM and that there are two WEB LOG entries D E which have a date and time that are the same as CHANNEL LOG entries C D. With further examination source determination component can also determine that WEB LOG entries D E and C D all correspond to a subscribe requested URL and SUBSCRIBE event respectively and thus the WEB LOG entries D E may correspond to CHANNEL LOG entries C D. Analyzing further source determination component determines that ipaddress4 WEB LOG entries D is an Internet address in Japan which corresponds to the country JAPAN of CHANNEL LOG entries C and D. However in this example source determination component determines that ipaddress5 is an Internet address in Brazil which does not correspond to the country JAPAN of CHANNEL LOG entries C and D. As such source determination component can infer that WEB LOG entries E does not correspond to CHANNEL LOG entries C D. Source determination component can then examine WEB LOG Entry C and determine that its date and time of Jan. 25 2011 at 9 46 03 AM is near the date and time of CHANNEL LOG entries C and D and thus may be a corresponding entry. Source determination component further determines that ipaddress3 of WEB LOG entry D is an Internet address in Japan which correspond to the country JAPAN of CHANNEL LOG entries C and D. Therefore WEB LOG entries C D can correspond to CHANNEL LOG entries C and D. To further differentiate the entries source determination component examines the referrer URLs of WEB LOG entries C and D to determine that vidid3 is a video on CHANNEL 1 which corresponds to the target CHANNEL 1 of CHANNEL LOG entry D and determine that vidid4 is a video on CHANNEL 3 which corresponds to target CHANNEL 3 of CHANNEL LOG entry C. Therefore source determination component can infer that CHANNEL LOG entry C is associated with WEB LOG entry D and that CHANNEL LOG entry D is associated with WEB LOG entry C. Furthermore source determination component can infer that WEB LOG entry E is not associated with CHANNEL LOG entries A D. For example a subscriber who initiated a subscribe request associated with WEB LOG Entry E may have chosen not to complete the subscription. As such there would be no corresponding CHANNEL LOG entry. Source determination component can record inferences and determinations in data store .

WEB LOG and CHANNEL LOG are non limiting examples of possible data that can be recorded. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that any type of data can be recorded in logs where there is no explicit link between a log entry in one log to an entry in another log or between differing entry types within a single log.

Referring back to presentation component can generate various displays and reports using the inferences and determinations made by source determination component and or stored in data store . For example presentation component can generate a report or display automatically or based upon a request that aggregates source information by event type e.g. subscribe or unsubscribe source type e.g. type of content type of source type of website or by any other data type by which a source is stored. Presentation component can also for example present a confidence score associated with source information or employ a confidence threshold to restrict presentation of source information that does not have a confidence score exceeding the confidence threshold. Displays and reports can be predefined or customizable. For example presentation component can provide an interface by which an entity can customize a display or report such as drill down and drill up navigation graphing charting sorting filtering aggregating grouping subtotaling creating tables and other reporting features. Presentation component can store customizations in data store for example in a profile associated with an entity. It is to be understood that presentation component can deliver the display or report proactively to an entity for example as an e mail attachment or fax or can make the display or report available upon request through a web page application or application programming interface API . For example a content provider can set up preferences in presentation component for displays or reports which he would like to receive automatically at predetermined intervals. Alternatively for example a content provider can access a web portal from which she can request specific displays or reports to be generated on demand according to customized preferences. Furthermore presentation component can employ security techniques to restrict access to displays and reports to only those authorized to have access for example by login password digital certificates public private key encryption biometrics or other security technologies.

Referring to a non limiting example of a customizable display of source information is depicted. Element is a selection element that allows for choosing a channel for which information is to be displayed. Element shows the current number of subscribers for the selected channel. Element is a graph showing the net change in subscribers over a selected period of time. Element is a selection element that allows for selecting a type of source to display which in this example is Video . Element is a table of source information with columns showing an aggregation of subscriber net change gains and losses by each particular video sorted on subscriber net change. This example shows at row 2 of element that a video titled Grilling Shrimp resulted in the largest net increase in subscribers. Within element row 1 shows the total change in subscribers attributed to sources other than video source types for example for comparison purposes. Element shows a selection element for choosing the sorting criteria. In this example the source information is sorted by subscriber net change in descending order. Element is a selection element for choosing the geographic location for which data is displayed and Element is a selection element for selecting the date range for which data is displayed.

Referring to a system that provides source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events is depicted. System includes a subscription content component that determines source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events from subscribers to channels and presents the source information to content providers . System further includes client devices which are employed by subscribers and content providers to interact with subscription content component . While three client devices are depicted it is understood that any suitable number of client devices can interact with subscription content component concurrently.

Client device can be any suitable type of device for interacting with a server over a wired or wireless communication link for example a mobile phone personal data assistant laptop computer tablet computer desktop computer server system cable set top box satellite set top box cable modem television set media extender device blu ray device DVD digital versatile disc or digital video disc device compact disc device video game system audio video receiver radio device portable music player navigation system car stereo etc. Moreover client device can include a user interface component e.g. a web browser or application that can receive and present displays or reports generated by presentation component . Furthermore user interface component can accept entry of requests for and customizations to displays or reports from content providers and send the requests and customizations to presentation component . Additionally user interface component can accept entry of requests for content and requests related to subscriptions from subscribers and send the requests to subscription content component . In addition user interface component can receive and display content and responses from subscription content component related to requests from subscribers .

Referring to an exemplary method for determining source information for subscribe and unsubscribe events is depicted. At reference numeral one or more logs as discussed above are generated and stored recording interactions of content providers subscribers and other websites with subscription content component and channels e.g. by a logging component . At reference numeral source information as discussed above is determined e.g. by a source determination component by analyzing one or more logs to infer a referring source from which a subscribe or unsubscribe event was initiated. At reference numeral determined source information is stored e.g. by a source determination component . It is noted that operations of method can be performed in substantially real time and concurrently with the interactions of content providers subscribers and other websites with the subscription content component and channels thereby having source identification information readily available for content provider requests with minimal delay. In this manner content providers can access source information in substantially real time that allows them to adjust content quickly to maximize acquisition of subscribers or minimize loss of subscribers. For example having information quickly that a particular content is causing subscribers to unsubscribe can allow a content provider to remove the content and head off a potentially significant number of other subscribers from unsubscribing. In another example knowing that a particular content is generating subscriptions for example a video associated with a particularly newsworthy event can allow a content provider to add additional content related to the newsworthy event thus enabling the content provider to focus its resources on providing content that is more likely to be of interest to potential new subscribers.

Referring to an exemplary method for presenting display or reports of source information is depicted. At a request for a display or report as discussed above is received e.g. by a presentation component from an entity for example from a content provider. For example a content provider can request to automatically receive a display or report at a regular interval or can request a display or report for immediate presentation. Furthermore the requested display or report can be a predefined display or report or can be customized to the content provider s preferences. At the requested display or report is generated e.g. by a presentation component at an appropriate time based upon the request. For example the display or report can be generated at an interval specified in the request or generated immediately. At the requested display or report is presented to the entity making the request. For example the display or report can be delivered proactively to the entity for example as an e mail attachment or fax or can make the display or report available through a web page application or application programming interface API .

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where media may be found. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various embodiments of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of various embodiments of this disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any suitable network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various embodiments herein.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client process may utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting transaction services or tasks that may implicate the techniques for systems as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Objects etc. may also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments. Accordingly the below computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a media server or other media management server components.

Although not required embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing device for implementing one or more embodiments in the form of a computer is depicted. Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation system memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touchscreen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner or any other device that allows the user to interact with computer . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques described herein. Thus embodiments herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described herein. Thus various embodiments described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the aspects disclosed herein are not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function e.g. coding and or decoding software stored on a computer readable medium or a combination thereof.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In order to provide for or aid in the numerous inferences described herein e.g. inferring audio segments components described herein can examine the entirety or a subset of the data to which it is granted access and can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment etc. from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data.

Such inference can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines etc. can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier can map an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class as by f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hyper surface in the space of possible inputs where the hyper surface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter may be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described herein and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

