---

title: Using multiple applications to provide location information
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatuses for providing location information to a location server by a plurality of applications are described. The plurality of applications of a computing device determines location information associated with the computing device, such as by querying location hardware of the computing device. The applications cause transmission of the location information to a location service via a communication network. The location service utilizes the location information in various ways to target communications to users associated with the computing devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855681&OS=08855681&RS=08855681
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08855681
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120420
---
Mobile devices such as mobile phones often have location capabilities that identify the location of the mobile device. For example a mobile device may have an installed global positioning system GPS receiver. Applications installed on the mobile device can access the GPS receiver to determine the mobile device s location coordinates. The application can then provide application specific functionality using the location coordinates. In one example an application may cause display of a map and an indication of the current location of the mobile device within the map display. In another example a social networking application may enable a user of the mobile device to check in at a local establishment which causes the user s social networking information to be updated on the Internet. In another example an application installed on the mobile device uses the mobile device s location to provide location specific content to a user of the mobile device such as a location specific advertisement or other marketing material.

Other types of location capabilities besides GPS are available. In one example the location of a mobile tower that the mobile device is connected to can be used to determine a location of the mobile device. In a similar example a Wi Fi network location can be used to identify a mobile device s location.

As noted above conventional applications on a mobile device utilize the device s location capabilities to provide various functions such as providing location specific advertisements. But if the application is not running on the device then the location based functions of the application cannot be implemented. Embodiments of the present application enable multiple applications that run on the mobile device to provide location information to a location service. The multiple applications may have primary functions that are unrelated to location services. The applications may provide users with the capability to opt in and allow a secondary function of the application to query the location hardware of a mobile device and to transmit the location information to a location service. The location service can provide location specific services for the mobile device such as providing the mobile device or a user associated with the mobile device with location specific communications such as advertisements or other marketing communications. By enabling multiple applications to query the location hardware a location service is more likely to receive timely and thorough location information thereby providing the user of the mobile device with more timely and useful information.

Users may opt in or opt out of various location services as described herein. For example users are able to opt in or out of allowing applications to determine his or her locations to store his or her locations utilize his or her location information and to receive communications such as marketing information advertisements or offers. Also the user information may be secured to reduce the likelihood of tampering and or unauthorized access to the data. In embodiments where user data is provided to third parties the user data may be limited to only anonymous aspects and or only those aspects of the user s data that the user has agreed to share with third parties. For example the user may agree to share an email address and work location with third parties but restricts the sharing a phone number home location and mailing address with third parties.

The techniques and systems described herein may be implemented in a number of ways. Example implementations are provided below with reference to the following figures.

In still further embodiments the applications may determine location data from IP addresses from Wi Fi network associations and so forth. The application s may also be executable to accept input from the users indicating the location. In embodiments the application s may be executable to determine or estimate a present location from past location data such as based on one or more of direction speed time trajectory and so forth. This may be useful for example where the mobile devices are unable for whatever reason to determine a current location directly such as a loss of GPS signal .

In the example shown in the application s query a GPS receiver within the location hardware for a current location of the mobile device . The location hardware receives GPS signals from a plurality of GPS satellites and utilizes those GPS signals to determine the location. The location hardware provides the location data to the application s that queried it.

The application s are configured to cause transmission of the location information to the location service such as via a transmission module . The transmission module may be conventional communication software that enables applications to send data transmissions over network . In embodiments a location service API may enable the application s to call a function to cause the transmission of the location information to the location service . In these embodiments the location service API simplifies the process of transmitting the location information to the location service . For example the location service API may include a resource identifier such as a universal resource identifier URI or a universal resource locator URL for the location service . Thus the application s do not need to be configured with the network location of the location service . In the example shown in however the application s communicate directly to the transmission module without calling a location service API.

The location service includes a location aggregator that receives the location information from one or more mobile devices such as the mobile device . The location aggregator may aggregate the location data from one or more mobile devices such as the mobile device . A target module utilizes the location data either directly or indirectly to target communications to the user . The communications may be sent to the user via email text messaging phone call or by other means. In another example an advertisement offer for a good a service or other marketing information is displayed by one of the application s on the mobile device . In a different example the mobile device receives a social networking message text message or email with marketing information which is then displayed by an appropriate messaging application on the mobile device . In embodiments the communication is sent to a communication account such as an email social networking account or other account that may be received by the user on a different device other than the mobile device . Other example communications are used without departing from the scope of embodiments and as described in more detail elsewhere within this Detailed Description.

As described in more detail below the target module may select target communications to send to the user based on one or more of a current location current location area a history of past locations a predicted future location or a predicted future location area and so forth. The target module may utilize the location information to determine a speed and or a direction of travel and determine a communication to send to the user based on such information. Other information may be utilized in embodiments such as is described in more detail below.

A location pattern module may utilize the location information to infer information from the location information. For example the location pattern module infers the location of a merchant at a particular location based on location information showing that many users such as user frequently visit a particular location. In another example the location information is used to identify the number of or the identities of one or more repeat customers of a merchant. In yet another example the location information is used to determine user regions such as those geographical areas where users tend to spend a lot of time or frequently visit.

The network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks such as the public Internet local area networks wide area networks mobile carrier networks personal area networks PAN and so forth. The mobile device may access the network using various technologies such as through Bluetooth or other PAN technologies Wi Fi technologies based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards Global System of Mobile Communication GSM standards based technologies code division multiple access CDMA mobile phone standards and so forth. Embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any type or types of networking technologies or protocols.

The location service API simplifies the process of sharing the location information with the location service. The location service API responds to calls from the applications and to transmit the location information by in part invoking the transmission module to transmit the location information. The location service API includes a resource identifier such as a URI or URL of the location service. Thus an application developer that develops the applications and need not program those applications with the resource identifier of the location service and or provide the applications and with the capability to query for or be updated with a new resource identifier for the resource service. The application communicates directly with the transmission module to transmit the location information to the location service. The computing system may include more or fewer applications similar to applications and that communicate via the location service API. And the computing system may include more or fewer applications similar to application that communicate directly via the transmission module.

The location service API may be installed on the computing system along with one or more of the applications . Alternatively the location service API may be installed separately. Having a plurality of applications with the location functionality built in enables the computing system to provide timelier more thorough and more reliable location information to the location service. For example while application is executing applications and may not be executing. Later application may be stopped or suspended during a time that one or more of applications and are executing. Thus having more than one application with the location functionality built in increases the amount of time that the computing system is able to provide location information to the location service. In addition the location related functions of one or more of the applications may be run as background processes during a time that the functions unrelated to location services are not running.

One or more of the applications may be third party applications developed by entities that are unaffiliated with the location service. The third party developers may be provided with incentives to build the location functionality into their applications and to provide the location information to the location service. In one example an application developer may receive compensation for transmitting location information to the location service and for displaying location specific advertisements presented via the developer s application. Other forms of incentives are available without departing from the scope of embodiments. During installation of the applications a user may be prompted to opt into the collection of location information. The user is also provided with the option of disabling the location functionalities of one or more of the applications .

During a time that the computing system is offline one or more of the applications may query the location hardware for location information. One or more of the applications cause transmission of the location information responsive to detecting a transition of the computing system from an offline state to an online state. One or more of the applications may store the location information in a location database such as during a time that the computing system is in an offline state although the applications may also store the location information in the location database during a time that the computing system is in an online state. 

Storing the location information in the location database enables any one of the applications to transmit all or some of the location information determined by the applications even if a different application determined some or all of the location information in the location database . Thus in one example one application may store location information in the location database during an offline state. Then a second application may detect a transition from an offline state to an online state and then cause transmission of the location information stored in the location database . In the same or different embodiments the applications may query the location hardware for location information aggregate it with the location information already stored on the location database and cause transmission of the aggregate location information to the location server. In the same or different embodiments the applications and may utilize the location service API to cause transmission of the aggregated location information including the location information provided by other ones of the plurality of applications to the location server as a periodic batch operation. The applications may cause transmission of the location information in real time as it is received from the location hardware in order to for example provide current location data to the location service.

In addition to the location information one or more of the applications also transmits other information associated with the location information. For example a time stamp or other time data associated with the location information may be stored in the location database and or transmitted to the location service via the transmission module . As noted above the applications include primary functions that are unrelated to location services. These primary functions may generate activity data and the activity data may be transmitted to the location service along with associated location information. In one example one of the applications is a price checking application that enables the user to check a price of an item available for purchase at a store such as by scanning a bar code or manually entering in information about the item available for purchase. The application may thus enable the user to compare a price of the item at the merchant that he or she is currently visiting to a price of the item available with another merchant such as an online merchant. The activity data generated with this request such as the item checked the price of the item at the merchant and so forth may be transmitted along with the location information. This activity data may be used in various ways as is described in more detail below.

As noted above having multiple applications with location services built in enables the computing system to provide the location service with timelier more thorough and more reliable location information. But if more than one of the applications access the location hardware and transmit the location information at the same time then this may cause unnecessary power usage processor cycles and network bandwidth usage. Thus the applications may suppress each other from accessing the location hardware . In embodiments a first one of the applications to execute may grab control of the location service update function such as by updating a flag in the location database . The other ones of the applications will therefore cede access to the location hardware . In another embodiment presently executing ones of the applications may negotiate for control of the location service update function such as by requesting a token from the other applications or by some other process.

A target module causes based at least in part on the location information associated with a particular mobile device a target communication to be transmitted to a user associated with the mobile device. The target communication may be an email a text message a social networking message a telephone call an advertisement or other marketing communication displayed by an application of the mobile device or other communication type. The information in the target communication may include location specific information such as an advertisement or other marketing information. In one example if the location information indicates that the mobile device is currently at a particular merchant then the target module may cause an advertisement from the particular merchant to be sent to the mobile device. Alternatively the target module may cause an advertisement from a competitor of the particular merchant to be sent to the mobile device. The communications may be from one or more sources or entities. For example the target module may choose between advertisements or other communications from one or more advertisers one or more deal purveyors one or more deal aggregators and so forth. The target module may weigh different inputs including location data inputs to determine the communication to be sent to the user.

A user profile module determines based at least in part on the location information for a particular mobile device a user profile associated with a user of the mobile device. The target module selects the target communication and causes the target communication to be transmitted to the user based at least on the user profile. The user profile may include information such as geographic areas that the user frequently travels in and merchants that the user frequently visits. The user profile module may infer based at least on location information time data and or activity data associated with the location information one or more of the user s work location home location merchant associations types of stores the user typically visits one or more frequently visited geographical areas and so forth. The user profile module may infer this and other information for example based on past location data showing a number of visits to a particular location or area exceeding a predetermined threshold.

The target module includes an offline target module and a real time target module . The offline target module is configured to target advertisements to users based at least on their user profiles merchant personas social networking information and so forth. The offline target module matches a target communication with a target audience. In one embodiment the offline target module searches a plurality of user profiles for users that are in a target audience defined as users that travel to work in or live in certain geographical areas such as a portion of a city county state or country and transmits a target communication to those users. In one example the offline target module searches for users that work in a downtown area of a city in order to transmit an advertisement for a new restaurant in the downtown area. The advertisement may include a lunch special to specifically target users who work near the restaurant. Thus the offline target module determines a predicted future location of the user the downtown area based on past location data associated with the user s mobile device the user s inferred work location and targets the communication to the user based at least in part on the predicted future location.

In embodiments the offline target module utilizes activity data associated with the location data to target communications to the user. In one example the activity data may indicate that a user previously checked the price of a particular item using a price checker application at one or more merchant locations. Thus the offline target module may target an advertisement or an offer for the particular item based on this information. Also activity data may indicate a time of day that the user typically checks their messages and may transmit the communication before such a time. Thus a time sensitive communication such as for a time limited offer can be transmitted to the user in a timely manner that gives the user an opportunity to view it before the information becomes obsolete. The offline target module utilizes social networking data or data derived from social networking data such as location data of contacts within the user s social network to determine communications to be sent to the user. The offline target module utilizes merchant popularity such as the number of visits by all users or a subset of users having similar user profiles as the user to the merchant target communications to the user. Other examples may be utilized without departing from the scope of embodiments.

The real time target module targets communications to users based at least on more current or real time location information. The real time target module receives the current location from the location aggregator and causes a communication to be transmitted to the user based at least in part on a current location or a predicted future location area determined from the current location. In embodiments the real time target module determines the predicted future location area further based at least on a direction and or speed of travel of the mobile device. The real time target module may further base the communication targeting on the user profile current location information past location information activity data a current time past visits to a location exceeding a predetermined threshold or other information. In one example the real time target module may determine that a user is at work and headed to lunch based on the inferred work location in the user profile current location information indicating that the user is currently at work and moving towards the entrance of the building and the time of day such as between 11 30 AM and 1 30 PM . In this example the user profile may indicate that the user is associated with three different food merchants during lunch time and the real time target module may therefore cause an advertisement for a restaurant in the same general area as the three food merchants to be transmitted to the user based on this information. The online target module utilizes social networking data or data derived from social networking data such as location data of contacts within the user s social network to determine communications to be sent to the user. The offline target module utilizes merchant popularity such as the number of visits by all users or a subset of users having similar user profiles as the user to the merchant target communications to the user. Other examples may be utilized without departing from the scope of embodiments.

A location pattern module utilizes location data received from a plurality of mobile devices to determine patterns and to make various inferences. In embodiments the location pattern module infers an existence of a merchant at a particular location based at least in part on the aggregated location information indicating an incidence of past visits to the particular location exceeding a predetermined threshold. For example if the aggregated location data indicates that more than a predetermined number of users have previously visited a particular location for which there is no current merchant information then the location pattern module infers that there is a merchant at the particular location. The location pattern module may utilize activity data associated with the location data to infer additional information about the merchant. For example if the activity data shows that many users perform price checks on electronic items while at the location then the location pattern module may infer that the merchant sells electronic items. Information about an inferred merchant may be used to generate sales leads for those inferred merchants to bring more merchants into an advertisement targeting service provided by the location service.

In embodiments the location pattern module determines numbers of and or identities of repeat customers for a merchant based at least in part on the aggregated location information. For example if the aggregated location information indicates that a particular user visits a particular merchant within a certain time frame more than a predetermined threshold number of times or at a rate that meets or exceeds a predetermined rate then the user is determined to be a repeat customer. The location pattern module may determine this directly from the location information or from the user profiles generated by the user profile module . The location pattern module may determine all users who are repeat customers of a merchant and utilize their identities to target communications or for other purposes such as to determine merchants with a large number of repeat visits. The location pattern module may determine a correlation between target communications sent to a population of users and the number of those users that become repeat customers.

In embodiments the location pattern module determines one or more user regions areas or boundaries having a high incidence of user visits based at least on the aggregated location information. The location information may indicate that an area or location is associated with a number of past user visits that exceeds a predetermined threshold thereby indicating that the area or the location is a high traffic area. Alternatively or in addition different areas can be identified as being unique areas based on for example location information showing that a first group of users tend to stay within a first area and that a second group of users tend to stay within a second area and so forth.

A merchant persona module utilizes the location data to characterize merchants. The merchant persona module determines characteristics of users who visit a particular merchant. For example the distances that users tend to travel to visit the merchant geographical areas that users who visit the merchant live in work in or travel to and so forth. The merchant persona module may determine a merchant popularity based for example on social networking data associated with the merchant e.g. the number of likes that a particular merchant receives on one or more social networking or rating services . The popularity may be based on the aggregated location data such as the number of visits by all users the number of repeat customers the number of repeat visits and so forth.

The target module may utilize the merchant personas to target communications to users such as by identifying a target audience for an advertisement or offer based on users whose location data matches the characteristics of the merchant persona. For example if a merchant persona shows that a certain percentage such as for example 50 75 80 or other percent of users typically travel within a 10 mile radius to visit a merchant then the target module may target communications to users who live or work within a 10 mile radius of the merchant. In another example if a merchant persona indicates that users who live in a certain neighborhood geographical area are more likely than users who live in other neighborhoods to visit a merchant then the target module may target communications to users who live within the neighborhood. The target module may utilize the merchant popularity to determine a communication to be sent to the user. The target module may cause the popularity information to be included in the communication sent to the user.

The merchant persona module may determine communities of users who frequent a particular merchant location or area and suggest social networking contacts between users within the communities. This information may be used to organize meet ups between users within the communities such as at a particular merchant location.

The merchant persona module may determine relationships between merchants such as by identifying from location information merchants that share users in common. The target module may target communications regarding a first merchant to users who have visited a second merchant where the second merchant has a determined relationship based on location patterns with the first merchant.

In various embodiments the real time target module utilizes activity that is associated with the location data to target communications to the user. For example the activity data may indicate that a user has recently checked the price of an item for sale at a particular merchant location. The real time target module may then cause a target communication regarding an advertisement or offer for the item to be sent to the user. The target advertisement or offer may include information about the item a discount offer from the merchant an offer for the item from another merchant such as an online merchant and so forth.

In another example the real time target module may determine from past activity data that the user has previously checked the price of an item more than a predetermined number of times at one or more merchant locations. The real time target module may then determine from the location information that the user is predicted to be travelling towards a location or area with a merchant that sells or possibly sells the item. The real time target module may then cause a target communication to be sent to the user with an advertisement or offer regarding the item such as an offer from the same or different merchant.

A forecast module forecasts based at least in part on one or more of the location information the user personas and the merchant personas and patterns identified by the location pattern module the efficacy of target communications. For example the forecast module may forecast how effective a particular target communication for a particular merchant may be based on the number of users that frequently travel within a geographic area of the particular merchant and the number of users who visit similar stores the average distances users travel and so forth.

In embodiments one or more components of may be accessible to third parties via an API or by other means. For example the target module may be accessible to third parties to target their communications to the users based for example on the location database. The location database may be provided directly to third parties to for example enable the third parties to target communications utilizing their own metrics weightings and additional inputs. Merchant personas user profiles and so forth may in various embodiments be made available to third parties for various purposes.

In embodiments computer readable memory and may include volatile memory such as RAM nonvolatile memory removable memory and or non removable memory implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Also the processor s and may include onboard memory in addition to or instead of the computer readable memory and . Some examples of storage media that may be included in the computer readable memory and and or processor s and include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium usable to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the computing systems and . Any such computer readable media may be part of the computing systems and .

The computer readable memory and meanwhile may include software programs or other executable modules that may be executed by the processor s and . Examples of such programs or modules include control modules e.g. power management network connection software an operating system sensor algorithms and so forth. The computer readable memory and may also be used to store various databases such as the location databases and .

Various processes instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules that are executable by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules can be implemented as software modules that are executable on the processor s and as hardware and or as firmware. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

The modules stored in computer readable memory and may be implemented across one or more servers in a cloud computing environment on a local device or on a combination of both. The following discussion does not limit the implementation of the modules stored in computer readable memory and to any particular device or environment.

The illustrative target communication is an example only and other target communications with other content may be used and transmitted based on other location data and location data inferences without departing from embodiments. For example the target communication may be based on and include information regarding social networking data. In embodiments the social networking data may include data indicating that contacts in one or more of John Q. Public s social network like or frequently visit Bob s Pizza Kitchen or restaurants similar to Bob s Pizza Kitchen. The target module may cause the target communication to be sent based on this social networking data.

At a plurality of applications such as application s and are executed on a computing device such as the computing device and the mobile device . In embodiments this may include executing a location function of at least one of the one or more applications as a background process during a time that a non location function of the application does not execute as is described in more detail elsewhere within this Detailed Description.

At access to the location hardware for other ones of the plurality of applications is suppressed upon a determination that more than one of the plurality of applications are actively executing as is described elsewhere within this Detailed Description.

At the plurality of applications or just those applications whose access to the location services is not suppressed determines location information associated with the computing device. The applications may determine the location by querying location hardware such as the location hardware and of the computing device such as GPS hardware network locator hardware or by other means such as triangulating coordinates from signal strengths IP address location associations or manually input location data. The applications may determine the information at different times such as during times that those applications execute. Alternatively the applications may determine the location at the same time. As noted above embodiments may include mechanisms to suppress location determination by more than one application at a given point in time.

At one or more of the applications determine whether the computing device is in an offline state. The computing device may be offline because a wireless capability of the computing device is turned off e.g. the device is in an airplane mode the computing device is out of range of a wireless signal or for other reasons.

At one or more of the applications aggregates location information determined by the plurality of applications. The location information may be written to a location database such as the location database by the applications. Aggregating the location information may include writing newly determined location information to other location information already stored on the location database. Aggregating the location data may occur during an offline state of the computing device although in embodiments the location data aggregation may occur during an online state.

At a location service API enables one of the plurality of applications to access a transmission module such as the transmission module to cause the transmission of the location information to the location service. The location service API is responsive to calls from the plurality of applications and the location service API simplifies the process of transmitting the location information to the location service. For example the location service API has a resource identifier such as a URI or URL for the location service and is configured to establish a predetermined type of network connection via a communication network with the location service. In embodiments one or more of the applications may not utilize the location service API as discussed in more detail elsewhere within this Detailed Description.

At the one or more applications cause transmission of the location information to a location service via a communication network. Causing transmission of the location information includes in embodiments accessing the transmission module directly. In other embodiments causing transmission of the location information includes calling a location service API. The location information may be transmitted as a batch process or substantially contemporaneously with the determination of the location information i.e. in real time .

At one or more of the applications detects a transition from an offline state to an online state of the computing device. Responsive to a determination of a transition the process passes to and to cause transmission of the location data. The location data may be caused to be transmitted as a batch process and by a different application than determined the location information. In one example a first application may determine first location information at a first time during an offline state a second application may determine second location information at a second time during the offline state and a third application may take control of location services detect a transition to an online state and cause the first and second location information to be transmitted. Other examples are possible without departing from the scope of embodiments.

The aforementioned techniques include a set of illustrative techniques for providing location data to a location service. However other known techniques may be employed to accomplish similar results.

At the location aggregator aggregates the location information and any other associated information received along with the location information such as time data activity data and so forth. This may include writing the location information and associated information to a location database such as the location database .

At a user profile module such as the user profile module determines based at least on the location information user profiles associated with one or more users of the mobile devices. The user profile module develops the user profiles based at least on inferences and other techniques described within this Detailed Description. For example the user profile module infers at least from the location information one or more of a work location a home location a merchant association or a frequently visited geographical area.

At a merchant persona module such as the merchant persona module utilizes the location data to characterize merchants and to determine merchant personas. The merchant persona module determines characteristics of users who visit a particular merchant. For example the merchant persona module determines the average distances that users tend to travel to visit the merchant geographical areas that users who visit the merchant live in work in travel to and so forth.

At a location pattern module such as the location pattern module determines one or more user regions having a high incidence of user visits based at least on the aggregated location information. The location pattern module may determine a region based on the location information indicating a number of past user visits exceeding a predetermined threshold.

At the location pattern module infers an existence of a merchant at a particular location based at least in part on the aggregated location information. The aggregated location information may indicate that a number of past visits to the particular location exceed a predetermined threshold. For example the location information may indicate that a particular location having no known merchant receives a large number of user visits from multiple users. The location pattern module may infer from this that an unknown merchant is at the location.

At the location pattern module determines a number of identities of and or characteristics of repeat customers for a merchant based at least in part on the aggregated location information. The aggregated location information may show a number of repeat visits by one or more users within a predetermined time frame that exceeds a predetermined threshold and the location pattern module may thus determine that these users are repeat customers.

At the target module determines a current location or a predicted future location of a particular user from the location information. The predicted future location may be determined from a current location past location data a direction of travel a speed of travel information in the user profile a number of previous visits to a predicted future location activity information associated with the location information frequented geographical areas inferred place of work home merchant associations and so forth some or all of which may be included in the user profile .

At the target module causes a target communication to be transmitted to the user based at least in part on the location information. The target communication may be selected based on a current or a predicted future location or area determined at . The target module may select a target communication based on a target audience which may be based on a merchant persona distances typically traveled by the user region information repeat customer information and based on other factors as described within this Detailed Description.

The aforementioned techniques include a set of illustrative techniques for determining location information by a plurality of applications of a mobile device targeting communications based on the location information and inferring user profiles merchant personas user regions and other information based at least on the location information. However other known techniques may be employed to accomplish similar results.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims.

