---

title: Managing and controlling administrator access to managed computer systems
abstract: A method and computer program product for managing and controlling access of an administrator to a managed computer system. At least one computer program on an access system of the managed computer system receives from the administrator a request for access to the managed computer system and requests a managing computer system to search open tickets for service management. In response to that the open tickets are not found, the at least one computer program redirects the administrator to log onto the managing computer system to obtain a new open ticket for the access. In response to that the open tickets are found, the at least one computer program requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open tickets and grants the administrator the access to the managed computer system in response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839400&OS=08839400&RS=08839400
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08839400
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
The present invention relates generally to computer service management technologies and tools and more particularly to managing and controlling administrator access to managed computer systems.

In computer service management a service management ticketing system is used for managing and maintaining tickets such as incident problem and change tickets. The service management ticketing system ensures that administrator tasks of service management on a managed computer system are performed in a specific order. However there is no way to prevent an administrator from logging onto the managed computer system and carrying out a task without a valid service management ticket. In computer service management there is a demand for managing and controlling administrator access to managed computer systems. Currently known solutions are related to access restrictions.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method and computer program product for managing and controlling access of an administrator to a managed computer system. At least one computer program on an access system of the managed computer system receives from the administrator a request for access to the managed computer system. The at least one computer program requests a managing computer system to search open tickets which are managed by the managing computer system for the managed computer system. In response to that the open tickets are found the at least one computer program requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open tickets. In response to that the administrator chooses the at least one ticket from the open tickets the at least one computer program checks status of the at least one ticket to determine whether the at least one ticket is valid. And in response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid the at least one computer program grants the administrator the access to the managed computer system.

Embodiments of the present invention provide another method for managing and controlling access of an administrator to a managed computer system. At least one computer program on an access system of the managed computer system receives from the administrator a request for access to the managed computer system. The at least one computer program requests a managing computer system to search open tickets which are managed by the managing computer system for the managed computer system. In response to that the open tickets are not found the at least one computer program redirects the administrator to log onto the managing computer system. The at least one computer program receives from the managing computer system a ticket generated by the managing computer system. And the at least one computer program grants the administrator the access to the managed computer system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Interceptor is software including at least one computer program which resides on the access system. Interceptor on the access system intercepts access of administrators to one or more managed computer systems . The access system is an entry point to one or more managed computer systems . The access system may be a firewall to one or more managed computer systems a proxy server or virtual private network VPN server. In the exemplary embodiment the access system is hosted by a computer device at the entry point of one or more managed computer systems . In service management system of the present invention administrators log onto to one or more managed computer systems from outside of the entry point and through interceptor on the access system.

Interceptor on the access system communicates with service management ticketing system on managing computer system via an application programming interface API such as XML extensible markup language SOAP simple object access protocol web services or others.

When a request for logging onto a specific one of managed computer systems e.g. managed computer system is made by an administrator interceptor on the access system gives the administrator a warning message that the administrator is accessing a managed computer system under access restriction. This message may be presented using a banner a pop up or other communication.

In response to receiving from the administrator the request for logging onto the specific one of managed computer systems e.g. managed computer system interceptor on the access system requests service management ticketing system on managing computer system to search open service management tickets for the specific one of managed computer system . Service management tickets are managed by service management ticketing system and stored on CMDB . The service management tickets include for example incident problem and change tickets. Each of the service management tickets is associated with a task of service management which is to be performed by the administrator.

Referring to on managing computer system service management ticketing system searches the open service management tickets by querying CMDB . For example a simple way of searching the open service management tickets is to search the text in descriptions of the open service management tickets. The text in the descriptions includes necessary information for identifying the specific one of managed computer system for example the hostname and or the IP address. As another example a complex way of searching the open service management tickets is to search configuration items CIs of the specific one of managed computer system . The CIs are tied to incident problem and change tickets.

Interceptor presents all the open service management tickets to the administrator and requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. In order to perform a task of service management the administrator must choose the at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. If the administrator chooses the at least one ticket interceptor checks whether the at least one ticket is valid by checking status of the at least one ticket. For example in the case of a change ticket interceptor checks whether the change ticket has status of in progress or scheduled . In response to determining that the status is in progress interceptor determines that the change ticket is valid in response to determining that the status is scheduled interceptor determines that the change ticket is not valid.

In service management system of the present invention interceptor grants the administrator access to the specific one of managed computer system in response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid. Otherwise interceptor denies the administrator the access in response to determining that the at least one ticket is not valid.

In service management system of the present invention interceptor redirects the administrator to log onto service management ticketing system on managing computer system under a situation where the open service management tickets are not found on CMDB or the administrator does not choose the at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. If the administrator is redirected to log onto service management ticketing system a new ticket is generated for the administrator by service management ticketing system . Once interceptor receives the newly generated ticket from service management ticketing system interceptor grants the administrator the access to the specific one of managed computer system .

In service management system of the present invention interceptor records information of the administrator access on a log. For example the information recorded on the log includes information of who when and why the administrator logs onto the specific one of managed computer system . Interceptor transfers the information to service management ticketing system and service management ticketing system stores the information on CMDB .

In other embodiments of the present invention interceptor on the access system may allow the administrator read only access to the specific one of managed computer system under a situation where the at least one ticket chosen by the administrator is not valid. Interceptor logs the read only access such that the administrator s activities beyond limitations of the read only access are flagged.

Referring to at step interceptor on the access system receives a request for access to a specific one of managed computer systems e.g. managed computer system shown in from an administrator who performs computer service management on the specific one of managed computer systems . The request of the administrator is made at the access system which is an entry point to managed computer systems . At step interceptor sends the administrator a message informing that the specific one of managed computer systems is under access restriction. At step interceptor requests service management ticketing system on managing computer system shown in to search open service management tickets. Service management ticketing system conducts a search by querying CMDB shown in which is also on managing computer system .

At decision block interceptor determines in response to receiving the search result from service management ticketing system whether the open service management tickets are found. At step YES branch of decision block in response to that the open service management tickets are found interceptor requests the administrator to choose at least one ticket from the open service management tickets. At step NO branch of decision block in response to that the open service management tickets are not found interceptor redirects the administrator to log onto service management ticketing system in order for the administrator to have a new ticket generated by service management ticketing system .

After step interceptor determines at decision block whether the administrator chooses the at least one ticket. In response to that the administrator chooses the at least one ticket at step YES branch of decision block interceptor checks status of the at least one ticket. For example interceptor checks whether a change ticket has the status of in progress or scheduled . In response to that the administrator does not choose the at least one ticket interceptor redirects at step NO branch of decision block the administrator to log onto service management ticketing system in order for the administrator to have a new ticket generated by service management ticketing system .

After step interceptor determines at decision block whether the at least one ticket is valid. For example interceptor determines that a change ticket at the status of in progress is valid or a change ticket at the status of scheduled is not valid. In response to determining that the at least one ticket is valid interceptor at step YES branch of decision block grants the administrator the access to the specific one of managed computer systems . In response to determining that the at least one ticket is not valid interceptor at step NO branch of decision block denies the administrator the access to the specific one of managed computer systems .

After previously mentioned step at which interceptor redirects the administrator to log onto service management ticketing system interceptor receives at step a ticket generated for the administrator by service management ticketing system . Then interceptor grants at step the administrator the access to the specific one of managed computer systems .

After previously mentioned step at which interceptor grants the administrator the access to the specific one of managed computer systems at step interceptor records the administrator access to the specific one of managed computer systems on a log. For example interceptor may record who when and why the administrator logs onto the specific one of managed computer system . At step interceptor transfers information of the log to service management ticketing system . The transferred information is then stored on CMDB .

In other embodiments after interceptor determines whether the at least one ticket is valid at decision block interceptor allows the administrator read only access to the specific one of managed computer system in response to determining that no ticket is valid. Thus the administrator is given the read only access instead of denial to the specific one of managed computer system . In the other embodiments allowing the read only access is a substitutive step of step in as a no branch of decision block . After allowing the read only access interceptor in a further step logs the read only access of the administrator.

Referring to the computer device includes communications fabric which provides communications among processor s memory tangible storage device s network interface s and I O input output interface s . Memory includes ROM s Read Only Memory RAM s Random Access Memory and cache s .

One or more operating system s and one or more computer program s reside on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . In the exemplary embodiment on a computer device hosting the access system one or more computer program s include interceptor which is software comprising at least one computer program. In the exemplary embodiment on a computer device hosting managing computer system service management ticketing system shown in resides on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . Configuration management database CMDB shown in also resides on one or more computer readable tangible storage device s . In other embodiments service management ticketing system and CMDB may reside on two separate computer devices respectively.

The computer device further includes I O interface s . I O interface s allow for input and output of data with external device s that may be connected to the computer device. The computer device further includes network interface s for communications between the computer device and a computer network.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

