---

title: Facilitating presentation of content relating to a financial transaction
abstract: Systems, methods and computer-readable media for facilitating the presentation of content associated with a financial transaction are disclosed. The content may be identified by a requestor or a party to the financial transaction on whose behalf a request associated with the financial transaction is received. A content location identifier that identifies a location where the content is stored may be identified or generated and may be included in or otherwise provided in association with a debit or credit instruction. The content location identifier may be presented by a user interface associated with a financial institution in conjunction with other transaction information and may facilitate access to the content and presentation of the content to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626659&OS=08626659&RS=08626659
owner: Fiserv, Inc.
number: 08626659
owner_city: Brookfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
With the advent of the digital age financial account holders are increasingly relying on online platforms to manage their financial accounts initiate financial transactions and obtain information relating to their financial accounts. These online platforms may support a variety of software applications such as online financial applications e.g. online banking applications rendered by traditional web browsers running on desktop or laptop devices online financial applications rendered by mobile browsers running on mobile devices such as smartphones or tablets dedicated smartphone or tablet mobile banking or other financial applications and so forth. These online applications have dramatically increased the speed and efficiency with which financial account holders are able to conduct financial transactions and manage their financial accounts.

In addition to providing functionality for initiating financial transactions and managing financial accounts online financial applications generally provide financial account holders with various financial transaction and account information relating to pending and processed financial transactions. Such information may include a posting date of a transaction a transaction amount a brief description of the transaction an available financial account balance and so forth.

Online financial applications such as online banking applications may provide a financial account holder with information relating to a financial account such as transaction and account details. Account statements whether mailed or delivered in electronic form may also provide transaction and account details. To date however the nature of the transactional and account information provided to a financial account holder through an online interface or in a paper statement has been limited in scope. Conventionally such information has been limited to transaction amounts account balance information posting dates minimal descriptions of the type nature of the transactions or similar information. Further while account holders may have some degree of control over the formatting or arrangement of the information presented via an online banking interface they generally are not able to control the type nature or scope of information that is presented. Further conventional online financial account interfaces e.g. online banking interfaces online credit card interfaces etc. and client applications for initiating financial transactions e.g. bill payments person to person P2P payments and requests for payments account to account A2A funds transfers retail payments and check deposits fail to provide a mechanism by which a requestor associated with a financial transaction e.g. an account holder can identify content relating to a financial transaction and associate the content with the financial transaction such that the content may be presented to a user e.g. an account holder via an online financial account interface or as part of a downloadable or mailed account statement.

This disclosure relates to systems methods and computer readable media for facilitating the presentation of content relating to a financial transaction. A service provider system may receive a request associated with a financial transaction on behalf of a requestor. The request may be received for example from a client device that hosts any of a variety of types of client applications. An illustrative non exhaustive list of such client applications may include an online banking application or other financial application a person to person P2P client application that supports functionality for transferring funds between financial accounts associated with different account holders e.g. a P2P payment or a request for a P2P payment a funds transfer application that supports functionality for transferring funds between financial accounts associated with a same account holder a client application that supports functionality for electronic bill presentment and payment a client application that supports functionality for remote deposit capture an application or interface that facilitates retail payments and so forth. In certain embodiments the request may be received from a client application hosted by a merchant or a device or system associated with the merchant or other payee as part of a credit card transaction a debit card transaction a check payment an Automated Clearinghouse ACH transaction and so forth. The merchant or payee may be online or brick and mortar and the financial transaction may be an online transaction or a physical point of sale POS transaction.

The requestor may be any entity from whom the request associated with the financial transaction is received by the service provider system. For example the requestor may be a party to the financial transaction e.g. a payor a payee etc. a merchant that submits the financial transaction request based on authorization received from a payor and or an individual or other entity authorized to submit the request by an account holder of a financial account associated with the financial transaction. The financial transaction associated with the request may be any of a variety of types of financial transactions including but not limited to a bill payment a P2P payment a request for a P2P payment a retail payment an account to account transfer a funds transfer a check deposit and so forth. In fact the financial transaction may include any transaction according to which funds are transferred from one financial account to one or more other financial accounts. A financial account to be debited or credited as part of the financial transaction may include any of a variety of types of financial accounts including but not limited to a demand deposit account a savings account a money market account a line of credit account a debit card account a credit card account a prepaid card account a stored value account or a brokerage account.

It should be appreciated that the foregoing are not exhaustive listings of the types of client applications financial transactions and or financial accounts to which systems and methods of the disclosure may be applicable. Any financial transaction involving the exchange of value between any two or more value holding entities and any applications that support such value exchanges are within the scope of this disclosure.

The request may be associated with content relating to the financial transaction. The content may include any of a variety of types of content including textual content one or more images electronic or multimedia content such as audio and or video content and so forth. The textual content may include but is not limited to a textual description of the financial transaction textual information associated with and or generated by one or more parties to the financial transaction and so forth. Illustrative examples of textual content include but are not limited to a sales receipt a purchase order a sales invoice a bill or a greeting card associated with the financial transaction. Such textual content may be organized according to any suitable format for presentation in connection with an online account interface or within an account statement. For example the textual content may be rich textual content that may be encoded in accordance with any suitable formatting specification such as any of those defined by any of a variety of markup languages e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible HyperText Markup Language XHTML Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL etc. . The textual content may have graphical elements tags metadata and so forth associated therewith.

Illustrative types of image content may include an image of an individual associated with the financial transaction e.g. an image of an account holder of a financial account from which funds are to be debited in connection with the financial transaction an image of an account holder of a financial account to which funds are to be credited in connection with the financial transaction etc. an image of an event associated with the financial transaction e.g. an image of an event at which the financial transaction was initiated an image of a purchased item associated with the financial transaction e.g. an image of a product purchased as part of an online financial transaction or as part of a financial transaction initiated at a physical retail location an image of a purchase order associated with the financial transaction an image of an invoice associated with the financial transaction an image of a receipt associated with the financial transaction e.g. an image of a physical or online generated sales receipt an image of a greeting card or message and so forth.

Illustrative types of electronic or multimedia content include but are not limited to audio files e.g. digital music audio books other audio recordings etc. video files electronic books e books collections of images content capable of being streamed and so forth. Such electronic or multimedia content may be associated with and or generated by one or more parties to the financial transaction or may be purchased or identified in connection with the financial transaction. It should be appreciated that the above described examples of the types of content relating to the financial transaction are merely illustrative and that any of a variety of types of content are within the scope of this disclosure.

In various embodiments the content relating to the financial transaction may be identified by the requestor of the financial transaction or a party to the financial transaction. In some embodiments the requestor may also be a party to the financial transaction. For example in the case of a request to make a P2P payment or a request to request a P2P payment the requestor may be an account holder associated with a financial account to be debited or an account holder associated with a financial account to be credited. The requestor may also be an entity that is not a party to the financial transaction such as an account holder of a financial account associated with the financial transaction but that is authorized to submit the request on behalf of the account holder e.g. a user authorized to submit requests for P2P payments or requests for requests for P2P payments on behalf of a corresponding account holder . Various content e.g. an image of an account holder associated with the financial account to be credited as part of the P2P payment an image of an account holder associated with the financial account to be debited as part of the P2P payment textual content etc. may be identified by the requestor. The client application e.g. P2P client application A2A client application etc. may provide an interface that allows the requestor or the party to the financial transaction such as in those scenarios in which the requestor is a different entity from the party to the financial transaction to attach append or otherwise associate the content with the request for the financial transaction. For example the client application may provide functionality that allows the requestor or the party to the financial transaction to browse for content stored locally or remotely and to associate the content with the request. Alternatively the requestor or the party to the financial transaction may designate or otherwise associate a location identifier with the request that identifies a resource where associated content is stored.

In certain embodiments the requestor may correspond to the payor. In other embodiments the requestor may be an entity other than the payor such as for example a merchant or payee associated with the financial transaction. For example in the case of a credit card transaction in which a payment is made to a payee e.g. a merchant the requestor may be the merchant who submits a request for a financial transaction on behalf of the payor. In certain embodiments the content may be identified by the payee independently of the payor. For example the payee may identify content e.g. a sales receipt electronic content purchased as part of the financial transaction etc. based on the nature type of the financial transaction.

In other embodiments the payor e.g. the credit card holder may specify the type of content he she wishes to associate with the financial transaction. As a non limiting example a payor may identify as part of an online purchase of a product content to associate with the financial transaction. Such content may include any suitable content such as for example an image of the product purchased an image of a sales receipt for the product purchased or textual content included in the sales receipt and so forth. A client application through which the payor initiates the financial transaction e.g. by submitting payment information may provide functionality for allowing the payor to identify or otherwise specify the content to be associated with the financial transaction. For example the payor may be permitted to attach append or otherwise associate the content with the financial transaction. In other embodiments the payee e.g. merchant may provide a set of options of content types to associate with the financial transaction. The payor may select one or more of the content types and the payee may associate corresponding content with the financial transaction. In such scenarios the payee may identify or generate the content corresponding to the content types selected by the payor.

In certain other embodiments the payor and the payee may each identify content relating to the financial transaction. For example in the case of a financial transaction initiated in the context of an event or function the payor may identify first content relating to the financial transaction e.g. an image of the event and the payee e.g. the merchant may identify second content relating to the financial transaction e.g. an image of a sales receipt a textual and or graphical representation of the sales receipt etc. . The first content and the second content may both be presented in association with the corresponding financial transaction via an online account interface or an account statement.

In various embodiments the request associated with the financial transaction may include the content itself. As a non limiting example content associated with a P2P payment request may be supplied with the request by utilizing functionality provided by the client application through which the P2P payment request is submitted. For example the client P2P application may provide a user with a capability to attach or append the content to the request. As another non limiting example a request received by the service provider system which is associated with an online purchase may include content e.g. content purchased as part of the transaction content relating to the product or service purchased such as an image of the purchased product textual or multimedia content generated by the purchaser as part of the online purchase etc. that is attached or appended to or otherwise provided in association with the request.

In those embodiments in which the content is included in or otherwise provided in conjunction with the request the service provider system may store the content in one or more local datastores that form at least part of the service provider system. Alternatively the service provider system may direct one or more server devices to store the content in one or more remote datastores. More specifically the service provider system may transmit the content to the one or more server devices along with an instruction request for the server device s to store the content in the remote datastore s . As will be described in more detail hereinafter the service provider system may subsequently retrieve or access the content by submitting a request for the content to the server device s . In still other embodiments the service provider system may store at least a portion of the content in the local datastore s and direct storage of at least a portion of the content in the remote datastore s . For example a portion of the content may be stored in the local datastore s and a remaining portion of the content may be stored in the remote datastore s . Alternatively multiple instances of the content may be stored to provide redundancy where one or more instances of the content are stored in the local datastore s and one or more instances of the content are stored in the remote datastore s .

In various other embodiments the request associated with the financial transaction may include an identifier that facilitates access to and retrieval of the content associated with the financial transaction rather than the content itself. For example the request may include an identifier that specifies a location at which the content is stored. In certain embodiments the service provider system may utilize the identifier provided with the request to obtain or retrieve the content. Upon retrieval of the content the service provider system may proceed to store the content locally in the one or more local datastores or alternatively may direct storage of the content in the remote datastore s as described earlier.

Upon receipt of the content either with the financial transaction request or by retrieving the content using an identifier provided with the request the service provider system may identify a content location identifier that facilitates access to the content associated with the financial transaction. In some embodiments the service provider system may generate the content location identifier while in other embodiments a system device or program module s distinct from the service provider system may generate the content location identifier. If generated by a system device or module s distinct from the service provider system the content location identifier may be obtained received or retrieved by the service provider system from the entity that generates the content location identifier. In those embodiments in which the request includes an identifier that identifies a location where the content is stored that identifier may correspond to the content location identifier identified by the service provider system. Alternatively the service provider system may utilize the identifier provided with the request to access and retrieve the content store the content in the local datastore s or direct storage of the content in the remote datastore s upon receipt of the content and proceed to generate a second identifier e.g. the content location identifier that serves to facilitate access to the content stored in the local datastore s and or remote datastore s .

The content location identifier may be any suitable identifier that facilitates access to and retrieval of the content. For example the content location identifier may be a Uniform Resource Locator URL that references a resource where the content is stored e.g. the local datastore s and or the remote datastore s . In various embodiments the content location identifier may be a shortened URL that is shorter than a longer URL that identifies a resource where the content is stored. The shortened URL may be generated from the longer URL and may redirect to the resource identified by the longer URL. The shortened URL may be generated in accordance with any suitable URL shortening methodology. For example the shortened URL corresponding to a longer URL may be generated using an appropriate hash function that maps the longer URL to a unique key that may be used to generate the shortened URL. In some embodiments as will be described in more detail hereinafter the content location identifier may include a resource locator such as a shortened URL as well as anchor text or an indication of anchor text to be included in a presentation of information associated with a financial account that is debited or credited as part of the financial transaction. For example financial account information presented via an online application interface may include the anchor text as a selectable representation of the content location identifier e.g. a clickable hyperlink that upon selection directs a user to the resource identified by the content location identifier.

Upon identification or generation of the content location identifier the service provider system may generate a debit or a credit instruction associated with the financial transaction. The service provider system may embed the content location identifier within the generated debit or credit transaction or append the content location identifier thereto and transmit the debit or credit instruction to a payment network or a financial institution at which a financial account associated with the financial transaction is held. The payment network to which the debit or credit instruction may be transmitted may be any suitable payment network including but not limited to an ACH network such as that supported by the Federal Reserve or the Electronic Payments Network EPN a proprietary network of financial institutions a debit network a credit network or any other suitable payment network capable of facilitating and or processing financial transactions between member financial institutions or between member financial institutions and non member financial institutions. In one or more embodiments the payment network may be a real time payment network. The payment network may include any number of computing devices payment gateways routers switches communicative links and so forth that facilitate financial transactions between financial institutions.

Upon receipt of the debit or credit instruction the payment network may cause a debit or credit to be posted to a financial account. The payment network may transmit or otherwise convey the debit or credit instruction via a set of communicative links to for example a core account processing system associated with the financial institution which in turn may cause a debit or credit to be posted to the financial account. Alternatively the payment network via a set of communicative links to the financial institution may cause the debit or credit to be posted to the financial account.

In some embodiments rather than transmitting the debit or credit instruction to a payment network the service provider system may transmit the debit or credit instruction to a financial institution at which a financial account to be debited or credited as part of the financial transaction is held. For example the service provider system may transmit the debit or credit instruction via a set of communicative links to one or more program modules configured to interact with a core account processing system of the financial institution. Upon receipt of the debit or credit instruction the program module s may cause an associated debit or credit to be posted to the financial account or alternatively may direct the core account processing system to post the debit or credit to the financial account.

As previously described the debit or credit instruction transmitted by the service provider system may include a content location identifier that facilitates access to content relating to the financial transaction and may optionally further include information that may be included in a representation of the content location identifier. An online banking application or other online user interface may be configured to present information e.g. transaction and account information associated with the financial account. Such online account information may include an indication of the posting of the debit or credit to the financial account. The presentation of information may further include a representation of the content location identifier. For example as previously described the content location identifier may be a shortened URL that redirects to a longer URL that identifies a resource where the associated content is stored.

In some embodiments the content location identifier itself e.g. the shortened URL may be displayed as part of the presentation of information. In other embodiments an alternate representation of the content location identifier may be displayed. For example anchor text associated with the content location identifier may be displayed. The anchor text may include for example text that is generally descriptive of the nature type of content with which the content location identifier is associated. The anchor text may have been provided along with the content location identifier in connection with the debit or credit instruction. In other embodiments a key or other identifier that identifies the anchor text to display may have been supplied with the debit or credit instruction. In still other embodiments the representation of the content location identifier may be an image such as an icon that is representative of the content or the type of content a thumbnail image of the content itself or the like. It should be appreciated that numerous other representations of the content location identifier are within the scope of this disclosure and may be presented.

In still further embodiments variable free form content may be provided in association with the content location identifier. The variable content may be distinct from anchor text which as described earlier may be presented as a representation of the content location identifier. The variable content may be for example a character string e.g. an access code that may be presented in association with the representation of the content location identifier and which provides access to the content upon selection of the representation of the content location identifier and redirection to a resource where the content is stored. It should be appreciated that numerous other examples of variable content associated with the content location identifier and distinct from the content identified by the content location identifier are within the scope of this disclosure.

As used herein the phrase representation of the content location identifier may refer to the content location identifier itself or to some other representation associated with the content location identifier. For example the representation of the content location identifier may refer to the content location identifier e.g. a URL that includes a combination of alphanumeric characters anchor text displayed as part of a hyperlink associated with the content location identifier and so forth. In various embodiments the representation of the content location identifier included in the presentation of information may be selectable. For example the content location identifier displayed as part of an online presentation of information associated with the financial account may be hyperlinked or otherwise selectable. In other embodiments anchor text associated with the content location identifier may be hyperlinked or otherwise selectable. Selection of the representation of the content location identifier may initiate a process for access and retrieval of content stored at a location referenced by the content location identifier.

In some embodiments the online presentation of information provided by way of the online financial application may not include a selectable representation of the content location identifier. Rather in certain embodiments the content location identifier e.g. a URL may be displayed but may not be selectable in which case it may be necessary for a user to copy and paste the content location identifier into for example a browser field to initiate a process for accessing and retrieving the associated content. In the online context the content location identifier may not be selectable if presented for example as part of a downloadable online account statement.

In other embodiments the transaction and account information associated with the financial account that is debited or credited may be presented as part of a paper statement that may be mailed to an account holder on a periodic basis. The paper statement may include a representation of the content location identifier e.g. the content location identifier itself or a representation of the content referenced by the content location identifier. As will be described in more detail hereinafter upon receipt of the content location identifier provided in connection with the debit or credit instruction the financial institution or more specifically an online financial application associated with the financial institution may utilize the content location identifier to access and retrieve associated content. Upon receipt of the content a representation of the content may be generated and presented in the paper statement. Alternatively the representation of the content may itself be received by the online financial application. The representation of the content may be displayed in the paper statement in relative proximity to other transaction information associated with the financial transaction with which the content is associated. As a non limiting example the content may be an image of an individual from whom funds were received as part of a P2P payment. The representation of the content that is generated and displayed in the paper statement may be a thumbnail image of the original image.

Referring again to the online context as previously noted a selectable representation of the content location identifier e.g. a hyperlink may be presented as part of an online presentation of financial account information. Upon selection of the representation of the content location identifier a request for the content may be generated. In certain embodiments the request may be directed to one or more server devices configured to access and retrieve the content from one or more remote datastores. The server device s may transmit the content to the requesting application e.g. the online financial application for presentation to a user of the requesting application. For example the content may be presented in a pop up window overlaying the online application interface presenting the financial account information. Alternatively the content may be presented in a new browser window or a new browser tab separate from a browser window or tab in which the financial account information is rendered. In still other embodiments a dedicated software application may be accessed and opened for presenting the content such as for example when the content is multimedia content.

In other embodiments the request for the content may be redirected to the service provider system. Upon receipt of the request for the content the service provider system may access the local datastore s to retrieve the content or alternatively if the content is stored in the remote datastore s may re transmit the request or generate and submit another request for the content to the server device s that may control access to the remote datastore s . Upon receipt or retrieval of the content the service provider system may generate a representation of the content which may include altering the content in some fashion. For example the service provider system may compress partition or otherwise modify the content to conform to specifications of the online financial account application to which the modified content may be transmitted. In other embodiments the service provider system may transmit the content to the online financial account application in unadulterated form. Upon receipt of the content the online financial account application may modify the content according to various specifications prior to presenting the content to a user. Selection of the selectable representation of the content location identifier may cause the online financial account application to receive or retrieve the content and control the presentation of the content to a user. Alternatively selection of the representation of the content location identifier may cause the user e.g. the browser via which the user is accessing the financial account application to be redirected to a resource hosted by the service provider system or an alternate resource such that the server provider system may control presentation of the content to the user.

These and other embodiments will now be described in more detail through reference to the accompanying drawings which form part of this disclosure. While various illustrative networked architectures and user interfaces for facilitating various illustrative methods of the disclosure are described it should be appreciated that numerous modifications alternatives and expansions of the described illustrative embodiments fall within the scope of this disclosure.

The illustrative networked architecture may include a service provider system that may include one or more service provider computers N generically referred to herein as service provider computer s and one or more local datastores . The networked architecture may further include one or more payment networks one or more server devices N generically referred to herein as server device s that may control access to and retrieval of information stored in one or more remote datastore s and a financial institution system associated with one or more financial institutions and which may include one or more financial institution computers N generically referred to herein as financial institution computer s .

The service provider computer s the financial institution computer s and or the server device s may include any suitable computing device including but not limited to a server computer a mainframe computing device a workstation computing device a personal computing device and so forth. It should be appreciated that the service provider system and or the financial institution system may further include various other components such as routers gateways switches other computing devices communicative links or any other suitable components.

A client device that hosts or otherwise provides access to a client application A is also depicted in . As will be described in more detail later in this disclosure the service provider system may receive a request associated with a financial transaction from the client application A. Although not depicted in one or more intervening systems or devices may be provided between the client device and the service provider system . For example the client device may represent a user device and an intervening payee system may be provided that submits payment requests on behalf of a user of the client device e.g. a payor . In various embodiments the client application A may be a thin client such as for example a browser based or dedicated mobile application that is hosted by one or more remote servers that may form part of the service provider system or another system or entity.

In addition a user interface may be provided that is hosted by the financial institution system . The user interface may include a representation of a content location identifier that identifies a location where content associated with a financial transaction is stored. The user interface and the content location identifier will also be described in greater detail later in this disclosure.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable by the processor s as well as data manipulated and generated by the processor s during execution of the program instructions. Depending on the configuration and implementation of the service provider computer s the memory may be volatile memory memory that maintains its state when supplied with power such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory memory that maintains its state even when not supplied with power such as read only memory ROM flash memory and so forth. In various implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM unalterable ROM and or writeable variants of ROM such as electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and so forth.

The service provider computer may further include additional data storage such as removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disk storage and or tape storage. Data storage may provide non volatile storage of computer executable instructions and other data. The memory and or the data storage removable and or non removable are examples of computer readable storage media CRSM .

The service provider computer may further include communications connection s that allow the service provider computer to communicate with other computing devices or application software forming part of the networked architecture depicted in . For example the service provider computer may utilize the communications connection s to communicate with the client application A the payment network s the financial institution system e.g. the financial institution computer s the server device s and so forth.

The service provider computer may additionally include one or more input output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a camera a microphone a printer and so forth for receiving user input and or providing output to a user.

The memory may include various program modules comprising computer executable instructions that upon execution by the processor s cause the service provider computer to perform various operations. For example the memory may have loaded therein an operating system O S that provides an interface between other application software executing on the service provider computer and hardware resources of the service provider computer . More specifically the O S may include a set of computer executable instructions for managing hardware resources of the service provider computer and for providing common services to other application programs e.g. managing memory allocation among various application programs . The O S may include any operating system now known or which may be developed in the future including but not limited to a Microsoft Windows operating system an Apple OSX operating system Linux Unix a mainframe operating system such as Z OS a mobile operating system or any other proprietary or freely available operating system.

The memory may further include a database management system DBMS for accessing retrieving storing and or manipulating data stored in one or more datastores. The DBMS may use any of a variety of database models e.g. relational model object model etc. and may support any of a variety of query languages.

The memory may further include various program modules comprising computer executable instructions that upon execution by the processor s cause the service provider computer to perform various operations. The functionality provided by these various program application modules will be described in more detail hereinafter through reference to various accompanying drawings.

Referring to and through further reference to the illustrative architecture depicted in the illustrative data flows depicted in and the illustrative service provider computer architecture depicted in at operation the service provider system may receive via a set of communicative links a request associated with a financial transaction from a client application A hosted by a client device . The communicative links between the service provider system and the client device may form part of any of one or more communication networks including but not limited to one or more cable networks the Internet one or more wireless networks having any coverage area cellular networks peer to peer networks or any other private and or public networks. Further such communicative links may provide for network traffic across any type of medium including but not limited to coaxial cable twisted wire pair optical fiber hybrid fiber coaxial HFC microwave terrestrial transceivers radio frequency communications satellite communications or combinations thereof.

The client device may be any suitable device capable of hosting the client application A including but not limited to a server computer a mainframe computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile device such as a smartphone tablet device or other device with cellular capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA a point of sale POS device a gaming console a set top box a smart television or any other suitable device or combination thereof. The client application A may be any of the client applications previously described including but not limited to an online banking or other financial application a person to person P2P client application a funds transfer application a client application that supports functionality for electronic bill presentment and payment a client application that supports functionality for remote deposit capture a toolkit that may include Application Programming Interfaces APIs or software libraries that may be used in the context of another client application to access functionality provided by the service provider system and so forth. In certain embodiments the client application A may be associated with an online merchant or other payee and may support functionality for receiving financial account information as input and initiating an online credit card transaction an online debit card transaction an ACH transaction and so forth.

The service provider system may be configured to receive the request from the client application A via the set of communicative links that connect the client device and the service provider system . The request received by the service provider system may be associated with any of a variety of types of financial transactions including but not limited to a bill payment a person to person P2P payment a request for a P2P payment a retail payment an account to account transfer a funds transfer a check deposit and so forth.

Still referring to the illustrative architecture depicted in the service provider system may additionally be configured to communicate with the server device s the financial institution system and the payment network s via respective sets of communicative links. The respective communicative links via which the service provider system may communicate with the server device s the financial institution system and or the payment network s may form at least part of one or more communication networks which may be any of the types previously described. In certain embodiments at least a portion of the communicative links via which any of the networked components of the illustrative architecture are able to communicate may form part of one or more of the same networks.

The request received by the service provider system from the client application A may be associated with content relating to the financial transaction. The content may be provided with the request either embedded in the request or as an attachment thereto or may otherwise be identified in the request e.g. an identifier that identifies a resource where the content is stored may be provided in the request .

Upon receipt of the request the service provider computer s may store the associated content in the local datastore s . As previously noted the content may be provided with the request in which case the service provider computer s may identify the content from the request and proceed to store the content in the local datastore s . For instance the service provider computer s may include a content storage and retrieval module that comprises computer executable instructions that upon execution by the processor s causes the content to be identified from the request and stored in the local datastore s . In certain embodiments the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of the content storage and retrieval module to call a service e.g. a software service to store the content in the local datastore s .

In various embodiments the processor s may optionally execute computer executable instructions provided as part of the content storage and retrieval module to direct storage of the content in the remote datastore s by transmitting the content and a request instruction to store the content to the server device s . In some embodiments a portion of the content may be stored in the local datastore s and a remaining portion of the content may be stored in the remote datastore s one or more copies of the content may be stored in the local datastore s and one or more copies of the content may be stored in the remote datastore s and so forth.

In those embodiments in which the request includes an identifier that identifies a resource where the content is stored rather than the content itself the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of the content storage and retrieval module to access and retrieve the content using the identifier provided with the request and to store the content in the local datastore s and or direct storage of the content in the remote datastore s . For example referring to computer executable instructions included in the content storage and retrieval module may be executed to access the one or more other remote datastore s based on the identifier provided with the request retrieve the content therefrom and store the content in the local datastore s and or direct storage of the content in the remote datastore s . Although not depicted in the service provider system may optionally retrieve the content from the remote datastore s by submitting a request to one or more server devices not shown that control access to the remote datastore s .

Referring again to at operation the processor s may execute computer executable instructions included in a content location identifier identification module to identify or generate a content location identifier associated with the content that identifies a resource where the content is stored e.g. the local datastore s and or the remote datastore s . For example in certain embodiments such as those in which the content is stored in the remote datastore s the service provider computer s may receive the content location identifier from the server device s . Further in those embodiments in which the request does not include the content but instead includes an identifier that identifies a location where the content is stored the content location identifier may correspond to the identifier provided with the request . Alternatively in certain of those embodiments in which the request includes an identifier associated with the content rather than the content itself the processor s may execute computer executable instructions included in the content location identifier identification module and or the content storage and retrieval module to retrieve the content from the resource e.g. the remote datastore s where the content is stored using the identifier provided with the request store or direct storage of the content in the local datastore s and or the remote datastore s respectively and generate the content location identifier or receive the content location identifier from the server device s . In various embodiments the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of the content location identifier generation module to generate the content location identifier .

Referring again to at operation the service provider system may generate a debit or credit instruction associated with the financial transaction based on the request received at operation . For example the processor s may execute computer executable instructions included in the payment instruction generation module to generate the debit or credit instruction . The debit or credit instruction may be generated in accordance with a standard that specifies various formatting requirements that the debit or credit instruction must adhere to in order to provide for interoperability between various payment networks and financial institutions.

The content location identifier identified or generated at operation may comprise a content locator e.g. a URL that identifies a location where the associated content is stored. In various embodiments the content location identifier may be a shortened URL capable of being included in a predefined field of the debit or credit instruction that has a predetermined maximum limit on the size of data that may be included in the field. In certain embodiments additional information may be provided along with the content location identifier that may affect how the content location identifier will be represented by for example an online financial application interface that presents transactional and account information associated with a financial account debited or credited as part of the financial transaction. For example anchor text that is optionally descriptive of or relevant to the content identified by the content location identifier may also be provided with the debit or credit instruction . An online application interface may display the anchor text perhaps as a selectable hyperlink in lieu of the content location identifier . The anchor text may be linked to the content location identifier such that selection of the anchor text may cause a request to be generated for retrieval of the content based on the content location identifier that identifies a location where the content is stored. In other embodiments an indication of the anchor text e.g. a key that identifies associated anchor text may be included in the debit or credit instruction . In such embodiments an online application interface having prior knowledge of the association between the key and the anchor text may identify the key provided in the debit or credit instruction identify the associated anchor text and display the anchor text perhaps as a selectable hyperlink. Alternatively the indication of the anchor text may cause a selectable graphic image to be presented in lieu of the anchor text such as for example a selectable icon or thumbnail image.

Referring again to at operation the service provider computer s may transmit the generated debit or credit instruction to the payment network s or the financial institution system . For example the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of one or more program modules stored in the memory to transmit the generated debit or credit instruction . As previously described the payment network s may be any suitable payment network including but not limited to an ACH network a proprietary network of financial institutions a debit network a credit network or any other suitable payment network capable of facilitating and or processing financial transactions between member financial institutions or between member financial institutions and non member financial institutions. The payment network s may include any number of computing devices payment gateways routers switches communicative links and so forth that facilitate the processing of financial transactions between financial institutions.

Upon receipt of the debit or credit instruction the payment network s may cause a debit or credit to be posted to a financial account held at a financial institution associated with the financial institution system . The payment network s may transmit or otherwise convey the debit or credit instruction via a set of communicative links to for example the financial institution computer s forming at least part of the financial institution system or more specifically to a core account processing system associated with or forming part of the financial institution computer s . The core account processing system may in turn cause a debit or credit to be posted to the financial account. Alternatively the payment network s may cause the debit or credit to be posted to the financial account via the set of communicative links to the financial institution system . It should be appreciated that the financial institution system may be communicatively linked to multiple different types of payment networks e.g. an ACH network a proprietary financial institution network a debit network etc. such that financial accounts held at a financial institution associated with the financial institution system may be accessed via the different payment networks. Respective modules associated with each of the payment networks may be integrated with a common core account processing system associated with the financial institution to support communication between the different payment networks and the core account processing system.

In other embodiments rather than transmitting the debit or credit instruction to the payment network s the service provider computer s may transmit the debit or credit instruction to the financial institution system . For example the service provider computer s may transmit the debit or credit instruction via a set of communicative links between the service provider system and the financial institution system to one or more program modules configured to interact with the financial institution computer s or more specifically with a core account processing system associated with or forming part of the financial institution computer s . Upon receipt of the debit or credit instruction the program module s may cause an associated debit or credit to be posted to the financial account or alternatively may direct the core account processing system to post the debit or credit to the financial account.

In one or more embodiments of the disclosure the debit or credit posted to the financial account may be posted in real time. Alternatively the debit or credit instruction may be transmitted or processed asynchronously as part of a batch transaction. Settlement associated with the posted debit or credit may occur as part of a net settlement of financial transactions between financial institutions which may occur asynchronously as part of a batch transaction.

As previously described the content location identifier associated with content relating to the financial transaction may be provided with the debit or credit instruction generated and transmitted by the service provider system . The content location identifier may be communicated to the financial institution computer s via the payment network s such as in those embodiments in which the service provider system transmits the debit or credit instruction including the content location identifier to the payment network s . Alternatively the service provider system may communicate the content location identifier to the financial institution computer s as part of the debit or credit instruction that is transmitted in certain embodiments to the financial institution system via the set of communicative links between the service provider system and the financial institution system .

It should be appreciated that the service provider system and the financial institution system may in various embodiments include numerous other components beyond those depicted such as additional computing devices datastores routers switches gateways additional software components and so forth. Further while certain functionality may be described as being provided by the service provider computer s or the financial institution computer s such functionality may in various embodiments be provided by other components forming part of the service provider system or the financial institution system either independently of the service provider computer s and or the financial institution computer s or in conjunction therewith. In addition although the service provider system is illustratively depicted in as a single system it should be appreciated that the service provider system may comprise an architecture that includes multiple independent system s and or payment gateways capable of communicating among one another to facilitate the processing of financial transactions. Further the various sets of communicative links and associated communication network s connecting various networked components of the illustrative architecture e.g. the set of communicative links between the service provider system and the financial institution system may also provide for communication between any of the components forming part of such systems. In addition data or information described as being generated transmitted or received by a system e.g. the service provider system may be generated transmitted or received by one or more components of the system e.g. the service provider computer s and vice versa.

In various embodiments the service provider computer s may provide functionality that forms part of a middle application layer of functionality between the client application A and the payment network s that provide access to financial accounts. In such embodiments the service provider system may further include the client application A. Further in various embodiments one or more of the payment networks may form part of the service provider system and may for example correspond to a proprietary payment network associated with a service provider with which the service provider system is associated. In other embodiments the client application A may be provided as a stand alone application that is distinct from but capable of interacting with the service provider system and providing access to the functionality offered by the service provider system . Further in various embodiments the payment network s may operate independently of the service provider system but may provide the service provider system with access to financial accounts held at various financial institutions that are members of the payment network s . In various embodiments a core account processing system associated with the financial institution system may also form part of the service provider system . In addition in certain embodiments the user interface may form part of or be provided by the service provider system .

In various embodiments the client application A may be capable of communicating with one or more of the payment network s independently of the service provider system . For example a payment network may support a set of communicative links that allow the client application A to communicate with the payment network independently of the service provider system through for example pre existing payment gateways.

Referring again to the content location identifier may be presented as part of a presentation of financial account information provided by a user interface . It should be appreciated that the user interface may include one or more user interfaces e.g. web pages that provide various functionality associated with a financial application such as an online banking application. It should further be appreciated that the user interface may be provided as part of an online financial application accessed using a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet device or as part of a dedicated mobile application. The financial application may be a software application running on the financial institution computer s and may potentially be a distributed application. The user interface may in fact be any suitable interface e.g. an online banking interface for providing financial account information to a user e.g. an account holder of the financial account . The user interface may provide various account transaction details including posting dates of financial transactions status indicators of financial transactions available account balance information information relating to pending transactions brief textual descriptions of financial transactions and so forth. In various embodiments the user interface including the account transaction details and the content location identifier may be presented to a user upon receipt of suitable authentication credentials. For example an online financial application may provide one or more interfaces for receiving authentication credentials e.g. a username and password from a user e.g. an account holder of a financial account and may authenticate the user prior to presenting the account transaction details and the content location identifier .

In certain embodiments as depicted for example in the content location identifier may be presented as part of the presentation of information displayed to the user via the user interface . In other embodiments an alternate representation of the content location identifier may be presented such as for example anchor text that is linked to the content location identifier and which is descriptive of or otherwise relevant to the content referenced by the content location identifier . In various embodiments the representation of the content location identifier that is presented via the user interface may be selectable. For example the content location identifier the anchor text representative of the content location identifier and so forth may comprise a selectable hyperlink or some other selectable indicator. Upon selection of the selectable representation of the content location identifier by for example an account holder of the financial account or other user of the user interface a request for the content referenced by the content location identifier may be generated. The request may be generated by for example the financial application with which the user interface is associated. In certain embodiments one or more other components of the financial institution system may assist in generation of the request.

Referring to in particular at operation of the illustrative method the request for the content may be received by service provider system from the user interface or more generally from a financial application providing the user interface . As previously described the request may be generated upon selection of the selectable representation of the content location identifier provided as part of a presentation of information presented via user interface . Although the content location identifier itself is depicted as being presented in it should be appreciated that an alternate representation of the content location identifier e.g. selectable anchor text may be presented.

Upon receipt of the request at operation the service provider system or more specifically one or more components thereof e.g. the service provider computer s may enforce access control to the content by authenticating the received request. Authentication of the request may involve verification that the requestor of the content is legitimately associated with the content e.g. the entity that identified the content or an entity acting on behalf of the entity that identified the content . The online financial account application may provide identifying information associated with the requestor of the content based on a prior authentication of the content requestor by the financial account application. Alternatively the service provider system may require authentication credentials to be provided with the content request or may if directly interacting with the content requestor prompt for the authentication credentials.

Upon authentication of the content requestor the service provider system may retrieve the content . The content or at least a portion thereof may be stored in the local datastore s in which case the service provider computer s may access the local datastore s and retrieve the content therefrom. Alternatively the content or at least a portion thereof may be stored in the remote datastore s . The service provider system may have previously directed storage of the content in the remote datastore s . The service provider computer s may access the remote datastore s and retrieve the content therefrom. Although not depicted in it should be appreciated that in various embodiments the service provider computer s may not have direct access to the remote datastore s . Rather the service provider computer s may transmit a request for the content to the server device s which may in turn access the remote datastore s retrieve the content and transmit the content to the service provider computer s . In various embodiments the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of the content storage and retrieval module to retrieve the content .

At operation the service provider computer s may generate a representation of the content . The representation of the content that is generated may include the content in unmodified form. Alternatively the processor s may execute computer executable instructions provided as part of one or more program modules stored in the memory to modify the content by compressing partitioning or otherwise altering one or more characteristics of the content to generate the representation of the content .

At operation the service provider computer s may transmit the representation of the content to the user interface for presentation to a user e.g. an account holder . The representation of the content may be presented in any of a variety of ways including as part of a pop window generated by the user interface as part of a new browser window or tab or via a software application capable of supporting a format associated with the content as in the case for example of various multimedia content. Various illustrative types of content that may be presented to a user via the online user interface are schematically depicted in . In alternative embodiments the representation of the content received from the service provider computer s by the user interface may be presented as part of a printed paper statement as schematically depicted in . Upon receipt of the representation of the content one or more components of the financial institution system may optionally further modify the content prior to presentation in a printed account statement.

Now referring to in the context of the alternative illustrative data flows depicted in at operation of the illustrative method the request for the content may be received by the server device s from the user interface or more generally from a financial application providing the user interface . As previously described the request may be generated upon selection of the selectable representation of the content location identifier provided as part of a presentation of information presented via user interface . Although the content location identifier itself is depicted as being presented in it should be appreciated that an alternate representation of the content location identifier e.g. selectable anchor text may be presented.

Upon receipt of the request the server device s may access the remote datastore s and retrieve the content at operation . At operation the server device s may generate a representation of the content . The representation of the content that is generated may include the content in unmodified form. In such embodiments the representation of the content may correspond to the content itself and the server device s may simply transmit the content to the financial application providing the user interface at operation . Alternatively the server device s may modify the content by compressing partitioning or otherwise altering one or more characteristics of the content to generate the representation of the content and may transmit at operation the modified content to the financial application providing the user interface for presentation to a user e.g. an account holder . The representation of the content may be presented in any of the variety of ways described earlier.

It should be appreciated that while various program modules are illustratively depicted in as being stored in the memory numerous other program modules may be provided that include computer executable instructions that upon execution by the processor s cause any of the operations described herein to be performed. Further any functionality described as being provided by any of the program modules illustratively depicted in may in various embodiments be performed at least in part by one or more other program modules.

A representation of a content location identifier associated with content relating to a financial transaction may be presented. The representation of the content location identifier may be presented in relatively close proximity to the financial transaction with which it is associated. The example financial transaction depicted in may correspond for example to a P2P payment a transfer of funds initiated via an online banking application or a similar transaction. While anchor text is depicted as being presented in it should be appreciated that any suitable representation of the content location identifier including the content location identifier itself may be presented. As previously described the representation of the content location identifier may be selectable and upon selection by a user may initiate a process for retrieving the content from a resource identified by the content location identifier. The content illustratively depicted in includes an image of an individual to whom the P2P payment was made or to whom the funds were transferred. Additional textual content may be presented in association with the image e.g. name of recipient of funds transferred funds amount etc. . This additional textual content may form part of the content initially identified by the requestor from whom the financial transaction request was received. For example a client application via which the financial transaction request was submitted may provide functionality for associating various types of content e.g. an image and associated textual content to form aggregate content for association with the financial transaction. Alternatively the image may correspond to the content identified by the requestor and the additional textual content may be identified and associated with the content identified by the requestor by the financial account application presenting the content to a user.

The content is illustratively depicted as being presented in a pop up browser window however any suitable mechanism for presenting the content may be provided. The content may have been identified provided by an account holder associated with the financial account with which the presentation of information is associated such as in the case of a P2P payment. Alternatively the content may have been identified provided by the recipient of the funds such as in the case of a request for a P2P payment.

A representation of a content location identifier associated with content relating to an illustrative financial transaction may be presented. The representation of the content location identifier may be presented in relatively close proximity to the financial transaction with which it is associated. The example financial transaction depicted in may correspond for example to a retail purchase transaction or a similar transaction. While anchor text is depicted as being presented in it should be appreciated that any suitable representation of the content location identifier including the content location identifier itself may be presented. As previously described the representation of the content location identifier may be selectable and selection by a user may initiate a process for retrieving the content from a resource identified by the content location identifier. The content illustratively depicted in is an image of a sales receipt associated with the financial transaction . The content is illustratively depicted as being presented in a pop up browser window however any suitable mechanism for presenting the content may be provided. The content may have been identified provided by the retailer or by the account holder.

A representation of a content location identifier associated with content relating to an illustrative financial transaction may be presented. The representation of the content location identifier may be presented in relatively close proximity to the financial transaction with which it is associated. The example financial transaction depicted in may correspond for example to a retail purchase transaction or a similar transaction. While anchor text e.g. View Message is depicted as being presented in it should be appreciated that any suitable representation of the content location identifier including the content location identifier itself may be presented. As previously described the representation of the content location identifier may be selectable and selection by a user may initiate a process for retrieving the content from a resource identified by the content location identifier. The content illustratively depicted in may correspond to textual content provided by a requestor e.g. the account holder at the time that the financial transaction was initiated. Alternatively the content may correspond to an image of a greeting card or other message provided by the requestor to another party. The content is illustratively depicted as being presented in a pop up browser window however any suitable mechanism for presenting the content may be provided. The content may have been identified provided by a retailer or by the account holder.

A representation of a content location identifier associated with content relating to an illustrative financial transaction may be presented. The representation of the content location identifier may be presented in relatively close proximity to the financial transaction with which it is associated. In addition other information such as an access code may also be provided in conjunction with the representation of the content location identifier. The example financial transaction depicted in may correspond for example to a retail purchase transaction such as an online purchase transaction. While the content location identifier itself is shown as being presented in it should be appreciated that any number of alternate representations of the content location identifier may be presented e.g. anchor text .

As previously described the representation of the content location identifier may be selectable and selection by a user may direct the user to a resource e.g. a web page identified by the content location identifier. The content location identifier may be further associated with electronically downloadable or streaming content such as electronic content purchased as part of the financial transaction . In various embodiments an access code may also be presented with the representation of the content location identifier. The access code may have been received as part of the debit or credit instruction that included the content location identifier. The access code may be utilized to download or stream the associated content.

For example selection of the representation of the content location identifier may cause the user to be directed to a resource e.g. a web page . Selection of the representation of the content location identifier may direct the user to a web page identified by the content location identifier. The web page may include a data field for inputting the access code . The user may submit the entered code using for example the submit widget and may be presented with an indication of how much content has been downloaded. The content may correspond for example to a purchased electronic file.

The account statement may include various identifying information . The account statement may further include various headings similar to the headings depicted in respectively and which describe various aspects of the financial transaction information that is presented. Various illustrative types of content may be presented in the account statement in association with the associated financial transactions. The content may correspond to modified versions of original content relating to the financial transactions. For example the original content may have to be reduced in size to generate the content in order to facilitate inclusion of the content in the account statement .

While various illustrative presentations of the information and types of content have been described in connection with it should be appreciated that numerous other variations modifications and so forth are within the scope of this disclosure. Further although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that numerous other modifications and alternative embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure. For example any of the functionality and or processing capabilities described with respect to a particular device or component may be performed by any other device or component. Further although specific example embodiments have been presented it should be appreciated that numerous other examples are within the scope of this disclosure.

Additional types of CRSM that may be present in association with any of the components described herein e.g. any of the components of the networked architecture may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices solid state memory devices or any other medium. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of CRSM.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein CRSM does not include computer readable communication media. Examples of computer readable communication media whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example the distribution of software may be an Internet download.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of embodiments of the disclosure. Conditional language such as for example can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or unless otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

