---

title: ION etching of growing InP nanocrystals using microwave
abstract: High quantum yield InP nanocrystals are used in the bio-technology, bio-medical, and photovoltaic, specifically IV, III-V and III-VI nanocrystal technological applications. InP nanocrystals typically require post-generation HF treatment. Combining microwave methodologies with the presence of a fluorinated ionic liquid allows Fluorine ion etching without the hazards accompanying HF. Growing the InP nanocrystals in the presence of the ionic liquid allows in-situ etching to be achieved. The optimization of the PL QY is achieved by balancing growth and etching rates in the reaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08663491&OS=08663491&RS=08663491
owner: The Florida State University Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08663491
owner_city: Tallahassee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121005
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 201 589 entitled Ion Etching of Growing InP Nanocrystals using Microwave filed Aug. 29 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 079 478 entitled Microwave Etching of Semiconductor Nanoparticles filed on Jul. 10 2008 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. EB R01 00832 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and Grant No. DMR 0701462 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to nanocrystal generation. Specifically the invention provides a novel method of generating nanocrystals with enhanced photoluminescent characteristics.

Over the past decade numerous advances have been made in the synthetic procedures for formation and isolation of high quality inorganic nanoparticles. The size dependent optical properties of colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals are ideal for applications in fields ranging from biological imaging photovoltaics optoelectronic devices biological tagging optical switching solid state lighting and solar cell applications. Chan W. Nie S. 1998 281 2016 2018 Bruchez J. Moronne M. Gin P. Weiss S. Alivisatos A. 1998 281 2013 2016 Bharali D. J. Lucey D. W. Jayakumar H. Pudavar H. E. Prasad P. N. 2005 127 11364 113671 Huynh W. Dittmer J. Alivisatos A. 2002 295 2425 2427 Sun B. Marx E. Greenham N. 2003 3 961 963 Gur I. Fromer N. Chen C. Kanaras A. Alivisatos A. 2007 7 409 414 . Due to the ease of synthesis a significant fraction of the research to date has centered on the II VI family of semiconductors utilizing the type I core shell structures namely CdSe ZnS Park J. Joo J. Kwon S. Jong Y. Hyeon T. 2007 46 4630 4660 Embden J. Jasieniak J. Gomez D. Mulvaney P. Giersig M. 2007 60 457 471 . Recent interest has focused on developing routes to the III V family namely InP Xie R. Battaglia D. Peng X. 2007 129 15432 15433 Gerbec J. Magana D. Washington A. Strouse G. 2005 127 15791 Adam S. Talapin D. Borchert H. Lobo A. McGinley C. de Castro A. Hasse M. Weller H. M ller T. 2005 123 084706 Borchert H. Haubold S. Haase M. Weller H. McGinley C. Riedler M. Moller T. 2002 2 151 154 due to the perceived lower toxicity for InP based nanocrystals Bharali D. J. et al. 2005 127 11364 113671 Xie R. et al. 2007 129 15432 15433 Oda K. 1997 35 61 68 Zheng W. Winter S. M. Kattnig M. J. Carter D. E. Sipes I. G. 1994 43 483 494 Kabe I. Kazuyuki O. Hiroshi N. Nomiyama T. Uemura T. Hosoda K. Ishizuka C. Yamazaki K. Sakurai H. 1996 38 6 12 Yamazk I. Tanaka A. Hirata M. Omura M. Makita Y. Inoue N. Sugio K. Sugimachi K. 2000 42 169 178 . The downside to InP is the poor photoluminescence PL quantum yield QY which is typically 

The general synthetic approach for preparation of colloidal semiconductor nanoparticles employs a bulky reaction flask under continuous Ar flow with a heating mantle operating in excess of 240 C. The reaction is initiated by rapid injection of the precursors which are the source materials for the nanoparticles at high temperatures and growth is controlled by the addition of a strongly coordinating ligand to control kinetics. And to a more limited extent domestic microwave ovens have been used to synthesize nanoparticles. The high temperature method imposes a limiting factor for industrial scalability and rapid nanomaterial discovery for several reasons random batch to batch irregularities such as temperature ramping rates and thermal instability time and cost required for preparation for each individual reaction and low product yield for device applications.

While recent advances in the field have developed better reactants including inorganic single source precursors metal salts and oxides better passivants such as amines and non coordinating solvents and better reaction technologies such as thermal flow reactors the reactions are still limited by reproducibility. Coupled to this problem is the lack of control over reaction times which require continuous monitoring. In the case of III V compound semiconductors the synthetic pathways have rates of growth on the order of days while in the case of II VI s size control is very difficult and depends on the ability to rapidly cool the reaction. In these cases the reaction depends on heating rate heat uniformity over the reaction vessel stirring and rapid and uniform cool down.

Removal of the surface Vsites by active ion etching with hydrofluoric acid HF improves the PL performance of these materials to 40 Gerbec J. et al. 2005 127 15791 Adam S. et al. 2005 123 084706 Micic O. Sprague J. Lu Z. Nozik A. 1996 68 3150 3152 Talapin D. Gaponik N. Borchert H. Rogach A. Haase M. Weller H. 2002 106 12659 12663 . While the use of active ion etching with HF enhances the InP nanocrystal PL it represents an inconvenient extra synthetic step that lowers solubility broadens the excitonic absorption line width and increases the difficulty for ZnS shelling. The development of an in situ active ion etchant can simplify the preparation of this family of material improve the PL QY and maintain the optical properties of the nanocrystal.

The use of ionic liquids in synthesis have attracted attention due to the high thermal stability of the solvent non reactivity of the materials and the added benefit of the solvent being recyclable Antonietti M. Kuang D. Smarsly B. Zhou Y. 2004 43 4988 4992 . In an earlier report our group demonstrated the advantages of using non fluorinated ionic liquids in MW chemistry to accelerate growth of InP and CdSe nanocrystals Gerbec J. et al. 2005 127 15791 . The isolated InP showed typical PL QYs for this family with values on the order of 4 . Following HF treatment the PL QY increases to 38 Id. . The most notable effect of using an ionic liquid in MW chemistry is the efficient conversion of MW energy into thermal energy due to the high MW cross section that ionic liquids possess. In MW chemistry the molecule with the highest cross section selectively absorbs the MW energy and through relaxation heats the solvent or the molecular precursors. The selective absorption leads to the specific microwave effects often quoted in the synthetic literature Kappe O. 2004 43 6250 6284 . Ionic liquids typically are not directly involved in the reaction mechanism and can be considered a spectator solvent allowing non absorbing materials to be rapidly heated in the MW by convective loss although ILs are believed to enhance reactions due to the highly ordered solvent framework Antonietti M. et al. 2004 43 4988 4992 Redel E. Thomann R. Janiak C. 2008 1789 1791 .

Nanocrystals as well as the other systems are rapidly finding applications in biological imaging biomedical technologies electronics and photovoltaics. However current methods to remove materials defects vacancy or add ion removal requires annealing long reaction time or post reaction treatment with a highly dangerous HF solvent. The invention alleviated this shortcomings allowing rapid isolation of materials and improved total yields.

The nanoparticles synthesized by the present invention may comprise semiconductor components. There is no limitation in their composition but typical examples are single substances of Group IV elements such as C Si Ge or Sn single substances of Group V elements such as P black phosphorus single substances of Group VI elements such as Se or Te compounds of Group VI elements such as SiC and compound from multiple Groups such as GeS GeSe GeTe SnS SnSe SnTe PbS PbSe PbTe AlN AlP AlAs AlSb GaN GaP GaAs GaSb InN InP InAs InSb GaS GaSe GaTe InS InSe InTe TlS TlSe TlTe ZnS ZnSe ZnTe CdS CdSe CdTe HgS HgSe HgTe and their ternary and quaternary alloys. Other compounds envisioned are AsS AsS AsSe AsTe SbS SbSe SbTe BiS BiSe BiTe CuO CuO AgS and CuSe CuCl AgBr and AuCl NiS PdS and PtSe CoSe RhS and IrSe FeO FeS FeSe and RuS MnO MnS MnSe and ReS CrS CrSeand MoS VS VSe and NbS TiO TiS and ZrS BeO MgS and CaSe and chalcogen spinnels barium titanates BaTiO .

The invention provides a method to remove defects vacancies and surface add ions during the growth of spherical oblate or elliptical nanocrystals 1 10 nm by generating in situ an active ion etchant halides F Cl Br oxygen . The in situ generation of the active ion is achieved by the selective absorption of microwave energy into an ionic liquid which induces decomposition of the active ion containing counter ion BF PF F ClO PO chlorides bromides acetate hydroxide etc improving the out of batch optical performance of nanocrystals.

The in situ active ion etching process is achieved using a microwave MW based synthetic protocol with a decomposable ionic liquid IL . In situ generation of the active ion is achieved through direct MW absorption by the IL thermal relaxation to the counter ion and subsequent production of active ion resulting in phosphorus vacancy V removal during the growth of the nanocrystal. Choosing an ionic liquid containing an active anion that thermally degrades circumvents the requitiste HF etching step by directly producing an in situ ion source. The concentration of active anion is controlled by the microwave power microwave cross section thermal decomposition rate of counter ion and concentration of the ionic liquid in the reaction mixture of the IL and subsequent thermal degradation of the anion source.

Using this methodology the active ion is available at low concentrations during the reaction and actively removes defects vacancies and add ions from the growing nanocrystal surface. Defect removal improves the materials crystallinity optical properties and electrical properties for a wide range of group IV Si Ge II VI II V III V and III VI semiconductor systems. Without limiting the invention Group II family members include Cd Zn Hg Group III members Al Ga and In Group V family compound members N P As and Sb and Group VI family members O S Se and Te.

The photoluminescence quantum yield PL QY for InP grown under in situ etching conditions is 47 for the additive hmim BFat a mole ratio of 1 10 In to IL . Time dependent degradation studies of the InP grown with the IL indicates the PL properties are maintained in solution for an extended time frame with no detectable change in PL QY after 24 h.

The in situ microwave assisted active ion etching method represents the first technique to produce high PL QY InP nanocrystals out of batch without using post generation HF treatment or core shelling. Additionally it allows in situ vacancy or defect removal during the chemical preparation of nanocrystals.

InP nanocrystals are prepared using separate stock solutions of indium palmitate and tris trimethylsilylphosphine TMS P in a CEM Discover Microwave reactor vessel. Solutions of indium palmitate and tris trimethylsilylphosphine TMS P dissolved in decane were prepared at 50 C. under Argon. Predetermined concentrations of additive listed in the Table were added to the microwave reactor vessel. The indium palmitate and TMS P solutions were injected into the microwave reactor vessel at a molar ratio of 2 1. The solutions were mixed prior to MW irradiation. MW growth is accomplished by ramping the reaction at 300 W single mode focused 2.45 GHz with a ramping time from 1 25 minutes depending on the choice of additive or MW system used. Once the desired temperature of 280 C. was reached the reaction vessel was actively cooled using pressurized air from about 3 psi to 30 psi of the microwave cavity to remove latent heat. The reaction was allowed to progress for a reaction time of 15 minutes. Once the MW reaction was complete the temperature is rapidly reduced to room temperature 2 min using forced air cooling at approximately 70 psi.

 PF and BF anions are prone to thermal decomposition producing controlled quantities of F ions. The thermal production of fluoride ions arises from a Balz Schiemann type reaction seen in . In fact tetrafluoroborate based ionic liquids thermally decompose at 240 C. at a rate of 0.017 min. This results in the anionic fluoride radical etching the surface of the forming nanocrystal seen in . In order to assess the affect on the PL QY of InP by the addition of fluorinated ILs during nanocrystal growth a series of ILs were investigated based on 1 hexyl 3 methyl imidazolium hmim 1 butyl 4 methyl pyridinium bmpy and tetrabutylammonium TBA with the counter ions BF PF F and Cl.

For the optical studies the InP nanocrystals were isolated from the reaction mixture by initial addition of toluene and precipitation by addition of acetone followed by treatment with toluene MeOH 2 . The quantum yields were determined by comparing the emission of InP with that from rhodamine 6G in ethanol QY 95 . Gerbec J. et al. 2005 127 15791 .

Using transmission electron microscopy TEM the MW grown InP are 2.7 0.3 nm spherical cubic morphology nanocrystals seen in . The large disparity represents an upper limit due to imaging limitations for these materials at this size regime. Powder X ray diffraction pXRD analysis of the sample indicates a Zn blende structure F 43m is formed as seen in . Scherrer analysis of the pXRD confirms the TEM size measurement. Solid state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy shows that fluorine is still present after material isolation on the InP samples grown by these methods seen in indicating that InP has been HF etched.

The magnitude of enhancement resulting from adding hmim BFto the MW reactor is clearly evidenced in the dramatic PL improvement observed for the InP nanocrystal grown in the presence and absence of the IL seen in and data not shown. The changes in the absorption and PL spectra for InP grown with the additive added in a 1 0.1 1 1 and 1 10 mole ratio of In to hmim BFare shown in . The PL QYs for each additive condition are compiled in the Table. The BF salts showed the highest overall PL QY improvement followed by the PF based ILs lower QYs while the F and Cl salts did not produce highly emissive materials or led to loss of the nanocrystal. The highest PL QY arises for the ionic liquid hmim BFat a concentration of 1 10. At this concentration it was possible to reproducibly grow InP with a PL QY of 47 . No spectral shift for the PL profile is observed for the various concentrations of hmim BF seen in or bmpy BF as seen in however as the concentration of IL is increased the InP PL QY asymptotes for the hmim BFat a concentration above 1 5 while bmpy BFasymptotes at 1 10 seen in . The difference in hmim and bmpy can be explained due to the higher polarity of hmim and therefore higher MW absorption and subsequent thermal transfer from the IL to the counterion. Aki S. et al. 2001 413 414 The higher thermal transfer leads to higher fluoride ion release in the reaction.

The observed InP PL QY depends on the type of IL and the concentration of IL. For samples grown with a 1 10 mole ratio of the IL the trend observed is BF BF Cl while at a 1 1 ratio the PL QY follows the trend PF BF Cl seen in . The observed anion dependence on IL mole ratio reflects the magnitude of F production with PF having the highest fluoride ion production in time compared to BF . The level of fluoride ion production mirrors the bond energies for the B F bond 174 kcal mol compared to the P F bond 96 kcal mol Lide D. CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics. 88th Ed. 2007 2008 . The weaker bond strength in P F will result in more facile thermal degradation and therefore higher fluoride ion concentrations. At high IL mole ratios the increased fluoride ion concentration leads to aggressive etching and subsequent loss of the materials.

To assess whether the PL improvement requires an IL with a high MW cross section or just an anion capable of producing fluoride ion TBA salts of BF PF and F were tested at reaction temperatures of 280 C. which is high enough to initiate anion degradation. The Table illustrates the combination of IL and counter ion necessary to achieve high PL QY in these materials. Although PL QY improvement is observed for TBA BF the PL QY for TBA BFwas far lower 11 than observed for either hmim BF 47 or bmpy BF 43 . For the TBA salts the magnitude of PL QY followed the trend BF PF F. At high concentrations of the PF or F salts the InP nanocrystals are not formed. As noted earlier it is believed that for the PF and F salts more rapid fluoride generation exists in the reaction and the resultant F ions inhibit InP growth due to formation of InFand reaction with the P source with subsequent formation of PF. The difference in PL QY between TBA and hmim can be explained due to the lower microwave absorption by TBA during the reaction resulting in lower F production for the ILs during the InP growth. The lower MW cross section for TBA is clearly evidenced by the longer MW ramp times observed for the TBA salts seen in the Table.

The experimental results suggest that a slow controlled production of fluoride ions during nanocrystal growth is crucial to produce the highest PL QY in InP. The slow production of fluoride ions apparently allows controlled removal of defects to compete with nanocrystal growth. At high fluoride ion concentrations PF vs. BF the rate of etching is faster than the rate of growth resulting in poor material performance. At low fluoride ion content hmim BFvs. bmpy BF the reaction results in faster growth than etching which yields poor PL QYs. The balance of etching and growth imply that during synthesis of InP nanocrystals an ionic liquid with a fluoride counter ion serves to super heat the reaction through the high absorption cross section for microwave energy of the IL converting that energy to convective energy and produce a transient in situ source for fluoride ions by thermal degradation of the counter ion. MW chemistry allows the careful control of etching relative to growth by balancing the MW cross section of the reactants with the thermal degradation rate for the fluoride containing IL. The careful control provided by the MW leads to a rapid convenient synthetic methodology allowing isolation of InP nanocrystals with nearly 50 PL QYs that are adaptable to a flow through technology. Such a technology allows the use of these materials in bio imaging applications where toxicity issues are a concern for bio nanotechnology.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

