---

title: Power saving in computing devices
abstract: Power saving in computing devices is provided. A first computing device communicates with a second computing device using a first set of tones. A low power event is detected by the first computing device. In response to the detected low power event, a request to communicate using a second set of tones is sent to the second computing device by the first computing device. The second set of tones has fewer tones than the first set of tones, and may be a subset of the first set of tones.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09285861&OS=09285861&RS=09285861
owner: ARRIS Enterprises, Inc.
number: 09285861
owner_city: Suwanee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
The disclosure is directed to power saving in computing devices such as Digital Subscriber Line DSL modems and routers.

Broadband services such as DSL are increasingly becoming an essential part of many households. For example many households rely on broadband services to provide Internet connectivity telephone service e.g. VoIP and television service e.g. IPTV . As the reliance on broadband services has increased so has the need to improve the reliability of such services.

One such improvement is the inclusion of batteries in broadband equipment such as DSL modems and DSL routers. By including batteries the broadband equipment may continue to provide services to a household even in the event of a full or partial power outage. However the amount of power that can be supplied by a battery is finite leading to a need for improved power management for broadband equipment.

In a DSL device such as a DSL modem or a DSL router the save our showtime SOS functionality is used to reduce the amount of power that the DSL device uses when on battery power. For example SOS allows a DSL device to reduce the number of tones that are used to communicate with a digital subscriber line access multiplexer DSLAM in the presence of noise or other interference on the link between the DSL device and the DSLAM. Disclosed herein are implementations of SOS functionality that reduce the number of tones used to communicate when the DSL device is on battery power even where there is no noise or interference. Because communicating using the reduced set of tones uses less power than the full set of tones the amount of time that the DSL device can operate on battery power is increased. By leveraging off SOS functionality the power saving capabilities disclosed herein can be realized in new existing and legacy DSL devices.

In very high bit rate digital subscriber line VDSL standards the feature for reducing the amount of power that the DSL device uses is known as SOS. Disclosed are manners for triggering the SOS so that the DSL connection uses less tones thereby reducing power consumption and concepts for implementing features to support SOS in the DSLAM. As described below the CPE device may have a priori knowledge regarding whether the DSLAM on the other end of the DSL connection supports the SOS functionality such as through a handshake protocol. The handshake protocol may be standardized by the ITU International Telecommunication Union for example.

In an implementation a first computing device communicates using a first set of tones with a second computing device. A low power event is detected by the first computing device. In response to the detected low power event a request to communicate using a second set of tones is sent to the second computing device by the first computing device. The second set of tones may be a subset of the first set of tones.

In an implementation a first computing device communicates with a second computing device using a first set of tones. An indication of a low power event is received from the first computing device by the second computing device. In response to the indication of the low power event an instruction to communicate using a second set of tones is sent to the first computing device by the second computing device. The second set of tones has fewer tones than the first set of tones. The first computing device communicates with the second computing device using the second set of tones.

In some implementations the network may be a network that provides voice and data services for the consumer premises . The network may include a high capacity data backbone associated with the DSL provider . For instance the network may include a circuit switched telephone network and a packet based data network.

The consumer premises may be connected through the central office to the network . The central office may represent a physical location generally controlled by the DSL provider through which the consumer premises connect to the network .

In some implementations the central office may particularly include a DSLAM . The DSLAM may connect multiple consumer premises to the network . In general the DSLAM may collect data from a plurality of modem ports and aggregate the voice and data traffic into one complex composite signal via multiplexing. Depending on its device architecture and setup the DSLAM may aggregate DSL lines over Asynchronous Transfer Mode frame relay and or an Internet Protocol network. The aggregated traffic may then be directed to the network for example. The DSLAM may be implemented using one or more general purpose computing devices such as the computing system described with respect to .

The consumer premises may each represent a subscriber to the DSL service offered by the DSL provider . Each consumer premise may connect to the central office through a link such as conventional twisted pair cabling. Other types of links may be may be used. Each consumer premise may include for example one or more phones set top boxes and computing devices each connected to a consumer premises equipment CPE to receive one or more DSL services such a data and or voice service. Other types of devices and services may be supported.

The CPE may be implemented by a DSL modem a DSL router or a general purpose computing device such as the computing system . The CPE may include circuitry to modulate high frequency tones for the transmission of data to the DSLAM . The CPE may correspondingly receive and demodulate signals from the DSLAM using the same high frequency tones. The CPE and the DSLAM may communicate via the link between the consumer premises and the central office . The CPE may provide a data connection to one or more connected devices e.g. the phone the set top box and the computing device via for example an Ethernet or Universal Serial Bus connection. In some implementations the CPE may also include an integrated router or switch. In these situations the CPE in addition to converting between DSL frequency signals and Ethernet signals may provide local routing services to connected devices.

As described previously reliable broadband services are desirable accordingly the CPE may include the battery . The battery may provide power to the CPE in the event that the general purpose electrical service to the consumer premise becomes unavailable. The battery may include a variety of battery types including rechargeable and non rechargeable battery types. The battery may be internal to the CPE or may be an external battery. A battery powered CPE is typically a requirement for VOIP supported CPEs.

Because the power available to the battery is limited the CPE may further include the power manager . The power manager may lower the overall power used by the CPE and therefore increase the amount of time that the CPE can operate using power from the battery . Moreover in some implementations the power manager may lower the power used by the CPE even when the CPE is using the general purpose power service of the consumer premise i.e. not using the battery . Where there are hundreds of thousands of CPEs in operation even a small power reduction by each CPE may result in a large overall power savings. Thus the disclosed techniques may address saving power when operating in battery mode but also may address saving power when CPE traffic through the CEP is less such as when the user is not using the Internet connection or during dormant times such as at night.

The power manager may detect what is referred to herein as a low power event and may lower the power used by the CPE upon detection of the low power event. One example of a low power event is the CPE switching to power from the battery . When the general purpose power service of the consumer premise fails or partially fails the CPE may automatically begin receiving power from the battery . In addition an interrupt or other signal may be sent to the power manager to indicate the switch to the battery . The power manager may interpret the signal as a low power event.

Other examples of low power events are data based low power events and schedule based low power events. Data based low power events are based on the presence or absence of data being communicated between the CPE and the DLSAM . If no data is communicated between the CPE and the DSLAM for more than a threshold amount of time then the CPE may send an interrupt or other signal to the power manager . The power manager may interpret the signal as a low power event.

For schedule based low power events the power manager may use the schedule to determine low power events. The schedule may include time periods when the power manager may reduce the power used by the CPE . The schedule may be received from the DSLAM and may have been generated by a user or administrator based on typical customer behavior i.e. when customers typically use data or voice services provided by the CPE . Alternatively the schedule may be generated by the power manager based on observed actual usage of the CPE by a customer.

In some implementations the power manager may use a combination of all or some of the battery the schedule and the data based low power events to manage power consumption. For example the power manager may determine to reduce the power of the CPE when there is no data communicated between the CPE and the DSLAM and the schedule indicates that the CPE is unlikely to be used by a customer. However the power manager may determine not to reduce the power of the CPE when there is data communicated between the CPE and the DSLAM and the schedule indicates that the CPE is unlikely to be used by a customer.

The power manager may use the save our showtime SOS engine A to provide increased communication reliability with respect to the link between the CPE and the DSLAM . SOS is a feature that may be incorporated into many CPEs and DSLAMs . The SOS engine A allows the CPE and the DSLAM to adapt to increases in noise or degradations in a signal to noise ratio in the link between the CPE and the DSLAM . The SOS engine A allows the CPE and the DSLAM to maintain a minimum or reduced connection in the presence of noise and therefore avoid a costly retrain of the CPE . Thus the SOS feature may be used in noisy line environments for improving the signal to noise ration between the DSLAM and the CPE but the SOS feature may be used as disclosed when the CPE needs to conserve power such as when the CPE is operating from battery. The existing algorithm between the DSLAM and CPE may be changed to accommodate the add on SOS features. The SOS feature may be enabled when in power save mode for example.

During normal operation the CPE and the DSLAM may communicate via the link between the CPE and the DSLAM by modulating and demodulating data onto a predetermined set of tones. When the SOS engine A detects noise or degradation of the signal to noise ratio on the link the SOS engine A may determine a reduced set of tones that may be used to communicate between the CPE and the DSLAM that avoids the detected noise. The reduced set of tones may be determined using the tone table or may be determined using a formula. The tone table may be stored at the CPE and may have been provided by the DSLAM . The reduced set of tones may be a subset of the predetermined set of tones.

The SOS engine A may then send an SOS request to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM via the link between the CPE and the DSLAM . The SOS request may identify the determined reduced set of tones e.g. the subset of tones . The SOS engine B of the DSLAM may respond to the SOS request by sending the CPE a trigger via the link that instructs the CPE to begin communicating using the determined reduced set of tones. The trigger may be a synchronization signal. Alternatively or additionally the SOS engine B of the DSLAM may determine the reduced set of tones to use for communication and the trigger may include an indicator of the determined reduced set of tones e.g. a reference to the tone table .

After receiving the trigger the CPE may begin communicating with the DSLAM using the reduced set of tones. At a later time when the SOS engine A detects the that the noise is gone or that the signal to noise ratio is normal the SOS engine A may send an SOS request to the SOS engine B of the DLSAM that the normal or original set of tones be used to communicate.

In some implementations the tone table may identify sets of tones that that may be used to communicate between the DSLAM and the CPE under a variety of operating conditions. The tones may be indexed based on the particular frequencies of noise or crosstalk that are observed on the link by the SOS engine A. The reduced set tones may be selected by the SOS engine A from the tone table based on the observed noise such that tones having frequencies that overlap with or include frequencies of the observed noise are not used to communicate between the CPE and the DSLAM .

The SOS engine A may also be used by the CPE to reduce the power used by the CPE . When communicating using the reduced set of tones the CPE uses less power than when communicating using the full or normal set of tones. Thus even in the absence of noise or a low signal to noise ratio the power manager may reduce the power used by the CPE by instructing the SOS engine A to communicate with the DSLAM using a reduced set of tones.

In some implementations the power manager may detect a low power event such as the CPE running on power from the battery and may instruct the SOS engine A to use a reduced set of tones. For example the power manager may use an application programming interface associated with the SOS engine A to generate the instructions. The SOS engine A may then receive the request and may generate and send an SOS request to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM requesting communication using the reduced set of tones.

In some implementations the SOS engine A may select the tones used for the reduced set of tones. The SOS engine A may select the reduced set of tones using the tone table or using a formula. The SOS engine A may select the reduced set of tones that maximizes the amount of power that is saved by the CPE . For example the SOS engine A may select the set of tones with the fewest tones that is supported for communication between the CPE and the DSLAM .

In implementations where the SOS engine B of the DSLAM selects the reduced set of tones the SOS engine A as instructed by the power manager may send an SOS request to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM . The request may specify that there is a low power event. Alternatively the request may specify that there is noise on the link between the CPE and the DSLAM even where no such noise exists. Such fictional noise may allow the CPE to use a reduced set of tones to save power with a DSLAM that does not support using reduced sets of tones for power savings. The SOS engine B of the DSLAM may respond with a trigger that specifies the reduced set of tones or includes a reference to the reduced set of tones in the tone table .

The power manager may determine that the low power event has ended and may determine to return to the original set of tones for communicating with the DSLAM over the link. Communicating with the DSLAM using the reduced set of tones may reduce the performance and available bandwidth of the link between the CPE and DSLAM and therefore may be generally undesirable. The power manager may determine that the low power event has ended when the CPE is no longer using the battery for power as indicated by the schedule or upon data being communicated through the CPE by an attached device.

In response to determining to return to the original set of tones the power manager may instruct the SOS engine A to return to the original set of tones. The SOS engine A may then generate and send an SOS request to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM . The SOS engine B of the DLSAM may respond with a trigger . After receiving the trigger the CPE may begin communicating with the DSLAM using the original set of tones.

In implementations where the SOS engine B of the DLSAM selects the tones the SOS engine A may send an SOS request that indicates that the low power event has ended or alternatively that the fictional noise on the link between the CPE and the DSLAM is gone. The SOS engine B of the DSLAM may then respond with a trigger that instructs the CPE to begin communicating using the original set of tones.

A first set of tones is used to communicate at . The first set of tones is used by a CPE to communicate with a DSLAM . The first set of tones may be a set of tones that is normally used for communication between the CPE and the DSLAM under optimal link conditions i.e. low or no noise .

A low power event is detected at . The low power event is detected by the power manager . The low power event may be the CPE switching to the battery as a power source. Alternatively or additionally the low power event may be the CPE detecting no data activity or a scheduled event. For example the CPE may determine that no connected devices e.g. the phone the set top box the computing device etc. are sending or receiving data through the CPE . The scheduled event may be based on the schedule and may be based on the data usage habits of one or more consumers.

A request to communicate using a second set of tones is sent at . The request may be sent by the SOS engine A to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM in response to the power manager detecting the low power event over a link between the CPE and the DSLAM . The second set of tones may have fewer tones than the first set of tones and communicating using the second set of tones may use less power than communicating using the first set of tones. The request may be an SOS request . The SOS request may be sent to the SOS engine B of the DSLAM even though there is no noise on the link between the CPE and the DSLAM and a signal to noise ratio associated with the link remains normal or acceptable. In some implementations the CPE may determine the second set of tones and the determined second set of tones may be identified in the request . In other implementations the SOS request may request that the SOS engine B of the DSLAM select the second set of tones. The SOS request may comprise an instruction and may be sent using an IP packet or other communication protocol.

A trigger is received at . The trigger may be received by the CPE from the SOS engine B of the DSLAM via the link between the CPE and the DSLAM . The trigger may include identifiers of the second set of tones. For example the trigger may include a reference to the tone table . The tone table may include a variety of predetermined tone combinations that may be used by the CPE and the DSLAM to communicate. The trigger may comprise a synchronization signal and may synchronize the tones used to communicate between the CPE and the DSLAM .

The second set of tones is used to communicate at . The CPE may communicate with the DSLAM using the second set of tones resulting in less overall power consumption than when communicating using the first set of tones. The CPE may communicate with the DSLAM using the second set of tones until the power manager determines that the low power event has ended. For example the power manager may determine that the low power event has ended when the CPE stops receiving power from the battery .

A first set of tones is used to communicate at . The first set of tones is used by the DSLAM to communicate with the CPE . The first set of tones may be a set of tones that is normally used for communication between the DSLAM and the CPE .

An indicator of a low power event is received at . The indicator may be the SOS request and may be received by the SOS engine B of the DSLAM from the CPE . The indicator may have been generated and sent to the DSLAM in response to the power manager of the CPE detecting the low power event. The low power event may be the CPE switching to the battery as a power source for example.

In some implementations the indicator of the low power event may include an indicator of a second set of tones. Alternatively the indicator of a low power event may falsely indicate that a link between the CPE and the DSLAM has noise because the DSLAM may not support communicating using reduced sets of tones for purposes of power saving.

Instructions to communicate using the second set of tones are sent at . The instructions may be the trigger and may be sent to the CPE by the SOS engine B of the DSLAM . The instructions may include the second set of tones or may include an identifier of the second set of tones. The identifier may be used by the SOS engine A of the CPE to determine the second set of tones using the tone table for example.

The second set of tones is used to communicate at . The DSLAM may begin communicating with the CPE using the second set of tones in response to receiving the instructions resulting in less overall power consumption than when communicating using the first set of tones.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing system . In its most basic configuration computing system typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing system may have additional features functionality. For example computing system may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing system typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing system and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable program read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing system .

Computing system may contain communication connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Computing system may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the processes and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter.

Although exemplary implementations may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

While the principles of the techniques disclosed herein have been described above in connection with specific methods systems and apparatuses it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation on scope.

