---

title: Camera module having protruding lens barrel
abstract: An electronic device and camera module are described. The camera module includes a housing for housing components of the camera module. The housing has a top side which defines an opening. The camera module also includes a lens barrel housed by the housing and having one or more lens elements and an actuator housed by the housing and engaging the lens barrel. The actuator is configured to move the lens barrel to a first position in which at least a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening. The camera module also includes an image sensor for receiving light which passes through the lens elements of the lens barrel. The image sensor is configured to produce an electronic signal based on the received light. The electronic device also includes a processor electrically connected to the camera module for receiving the electronic signal from the image sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08786769&OS=08786769&RS=08786769
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08786769
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120717
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 570 896 owned in common herewith and the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to camera modules and more particularly to a digital camera module having one or more movable lenses for focusing the camera.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are often equipped with one or more cameras. For example electronic devices are often equipped with a front facing camera. A front facing camera is a camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which includes the main display of the electronic device. Front facing cameras allow a user of the electronic device to capture an image of the user and to view the display while the image is being captured.

Electronic devices are often also equipped with a rear facing camera. A rear facing camera is a camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which does not include the main display of the electronic device.

Front facing cameras and rear facing cameras are often provided at least in part by one or more camera modules. The camera modules often include an image sensor and one or more lenses. The lenses may be movable relative to the image sensor to focus on a subject.

The height of an electronic device is often related to the height of the camera module provided in the electronic device and the height of the camera module often depends on the focusing capabilities of the camera module. That is when focusing on subjects which are located in close proximity to the electronic device lenses of the camera module are typically moved to a position in which they are fully extended i.e. they are far away from the image sensor . The height of the camera module is often dependent on the distance between the image sensor and the uppermost lens i.e. the lens which is further away from the image sensor when the lenses are fully extended.

In one aspect the present disclosure describes a camera module. The camera module includes a housing for housing components of the camera module. The housing has a top side which defines an opening. The camera module also includes a lens barrel housed by the housing and having one or more lens elements and an actuator housed by the housing and engaging the lens barrel. The actuator is configured to move the lens barrel to a first position in which at least a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening. The camera module also includes an image sensor for receiving light which passes through the lens elements of the lens barrel. The image sensor is configured to produce an electronic signal based on the received light.

In another aspect the present disclosure describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a camera module. The camera module includes a housing for housing components of the camera module. The housing has a top side which defines an opening. The camera module also includes a lens barrel housed by the housing and having one or more lens elements and an actuator housed by the housing and engaging the lens barrel. The actuator is configured to move the lens barrel to a first position in which at least a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening. The camera module also includes an image sensor for receiving light which passes through the lens elements of the lens barrel. The image sensor is configured to produce an electronic signal based on the received light. The electronic device also includes a processor electrically connected to the camera module for receiving the electronic signal from the image sensor.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a controller including one or more processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a camera module microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The electronic device may include a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

The electronic device includes one or more camera modules . The camera module is capable of capturing camera data such as images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor. The camera module will be described in greater detail below with reference to . The camera module may be associated with a front facing camera or a rear facing camera.

A front facing camera is provided by a camera module which is located to obtain images of a subject near a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a main display is mounted. That is when a front facing camera is provided on the electronic device the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera module is directed.

The camera module of the front facing camera may be located above or below the display . In at least some example embodiments the camera module may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face. For example the camera module may be located centrally above the display .

A rear facing camera is provided by a camera module which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . The rear face is typically a face which does not include the main display of the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the electronic device may operate in one operating mode in which the display acts as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with a rear facing camera.

The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The field of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

While illustrates a single camera module the electronic device may include a plurality of camera modules . For example in at least some embodiments the electronic device may include both a front facing camera which includes a first camera module and a rear facing camera which includes a second camera module .

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes or is connected to a power source such as a battery which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information camera data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device may in some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The processor may be electrically connected to the camera module to allow the processor to receive electronic signals representing camera data from the camera module .

In at least some embodiments the software modules may include one or more camera applications or modules which are configured for handing the electronic signals representing camera data from the camera module . The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time an image defined in the electronic signals received from the camera module . The camera application may also be configured to capture an image or video by storing an image or video defined by the electronic signals received from the camera module . For example the camera application may be configured to store the image or video to memory of the electronic device.

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the camera module . For example the camera application may be configured to control a camera lens aperture and or a shutter speed. The control of such features may in at least some embodiments be automatically performed by the camera software based on output received from a light exposure meter.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the camera module and or to control a zoom associated with the camera module . In at least some embodiments the camera application is to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application may in at least some embodiments provide image stabilization for the camera. Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the camera module .

In at least some embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the camera module on a subject. More particularly the camera application may be configured to control an actuator of the camera module to move a lens which is comprised of one or more lens elements in the camera module relative to an image sensor in the camera module . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very close to the camera module e.g. subject at macro position the camera application may control the actuator to cause the actuator to move the lens away from the image sensor.

In at least some embodiments the camera application may provide for auto focusing capabilities. For example the camera application may analyze received electronic signals to determine whether the images captured by the camera are in focus. That is the camera application may determine whether the images defined by electronic signals received from the camera module are focused properly on the subject of such images. The camera application may for example make this determination based on the sharpness of such images. If the camera application determines that the images are not in focus then the camera application may cause the processor to adjust the actuator which controls the lens to focus the image.

While the embodiment discussed above includes a main processor coupled with a camera application which collectively act as an image signal processor to provide image related functions such as auto focusing in other embodiments not shown another processor such as a dedicated image signal processor may provide some or all of these functions.

In the example embodiment of camera application is illustrated as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the camera application may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore in some embodiments the functions of the camera application may be provided by a plurality of applications.

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may include a camera module as illustrated in . The front facing camera may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

In at least some embodiments not shown the smartphone may also include a rear facing camera instead of or in addition to the front facing camera. The rear facing camera may be located on the back face of the smartphone . That is the rear facing camera may be located on a side of the smartphone which does not include the main display . The rear facing camera may include a camera module such as the camera module of .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a tablet computer. Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a tablet computer is illustrated.

The tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However the tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example tablet computer includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . The front facing camera may include a camera module as illustrated in .

In at least some embodiments not shown the tablet computer may also include a rear facing camera instead of or in addition to the front facing camera. The rear facing camera may be located on the back face of the tablet computer . That is the rear facing camera may be located on a side of the tablet computer which does not include the main display . The rear facing camera may include a camera module such as the camera module of .

Reference will now be made to which illustrate example embodiments of a camera module . The camera module may be included in the electronic device of .

Referring first to the camera module is illustrated in lens extended orientation in which a lens which includes one or more lens elements of the camera module is moved away from an image sensor. More particularly illustrates an isometric view of the camera module in the lens extended orientation illustrates a side view of the camera module in the lens extended orientation illustrates a top view of the camera module in the lens extended orientation and illustrates a cross sectional view of the camera module in the lens extended orientation. The cross sectional view is taken along line of . illustrates a cross sectional view of the camera module where the lens which includes one or more lens elements is extended by a lesser amount than in . illustrates a cross sectional view of the camera module where the lens which includes one or more lens elements does not protrude from the camera module.

As illustrated in the camera module includes an image pickup device which may in at least some example embodiments be referred to as an image sensor . The image sensor is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. More particularly the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor . The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera data .

In at least some embodiments the image sensor is a charge coupled device CCD image sensor. In other embodiments the image sensor is a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS image sensor. In some embodiments the image sensor may be of another type. For example in some embodiments the image sensor may be a hybrid CCD CMOS image sensor such as a scientific CMOS sCMOS image sensor . In the example embodiment illustrated the image sensor is rectangular in shape.

In at least some embodiments the image sensor is a surface mount image sensor which may be mounted on a substrate such as a printed circuit board PCB which may be a flexible PCB. The electrical connectors of the image sensor may be connected through the substrate to one or more processors associated with an electronic device in order to provide the electrical signal which represents an optical image to the processor.

The camera module may also include a lens which includes one or more lens elements which may be used to focus light onto the image sensor . The image sensor is exposed to light passing through the one or more lens elements . That is the image sensor is located within the camera module to receive light which has passed through the lens elements of a lens barrel . In the embodiment illustrated there are four lens elements in a lens including a first lens element which is the uppermost lens element and which is furthest away from the image sensor a second lens element which is adjacent to the first lens element a third lens element which is adjacent to the second lens element and a fourth lens element which is adjacent to the third lens element and which is a lowermost lens element i.e. is nearest to the image sensor .

While the camera module of includes a lens which includes four lens elements in other embodiments the lens may include a greater or lesser number of lens elements 

The lens elements may be disposed within the lens barrel . The lens barrel may include a lens barrel housing which houses at least some components of the lens barrel such as the lens elements . The lens barrel housing may be cylindrical or substantially cylindrical. The lens barrel housing may for example be constructed of a plastic material. The lens barrel has a light receiving end and a light providing end . At the light receiving end the lens barrel defines an aperture through which light from outside of the lens barrel may enter and be received within the lens barrel . The aperture may be defined by the lens barrel housing of the lens barrel . The lens barrel may be referred to as a focusing lens barrel since the lens barrel is configured to move relative to the image sensor in order to focus the camera module on a subject.

The lens barrel may in at least some embodiments include a plurality of lens elements which are disposed between the light receiving end and the light providing end of the lens barrel . The lens elements may have a circular perimeter to fit within a cylindrical or substantially cylindrical lens barrel housing . The lens elements may be tightly packed within the lens barrel and may form a lens.

The lens elements may be mounted within the lens barrel housing using one or more supports. The supports hold the lens elements in place and prevent the lens elements from moving relative to the lens barrel housing . That is the lens elements are supported by the supports so that movement of the lens barrel housing results in corresponding movement of the lens elements and the lens formed by the lens elements .

The supports may in some embodiments include one or more prongs. In the example embodiment illustrated the lens elements are supported within the lens barrel housing by two supports which include a seat and a collar .

The collar supports a lowermost lens element . The collar may in some embodiments be affixed to the lens barrel housing and is used to prevent movement of the lens elements relative to the lens barrel housing . In at least some embodiments the collar is a portion of the lens barrel housing which protrudes into a cavity defined by the lens barrel housing in order to support one or more of the lens elements . In the embodiment illustrated the collar is an annular collar and is located at the light providing end of the lens barrel housing . In at least some embodiments the collar may be removable to allow a lens to be inserted into the lens barrel housing . That is the collar may be removed from the lens barrel housing to permit lens elements to be inserted into the lens barrel housing . For example in at least some embodiments the collar may be attached to the lens barrel housing by a threaded connection and may be removed by relative rotation of the collar relative to the lens barrel housing .

In the example embodiment illustrated the lens elements are also supported by a seat which supports an uppermost lens element . That is the seat may restrain one or more of the lens elements against movement in at least one direction. In the example embodiment illustrated the seat restrains the lens elements against upward movement. In the example embodiment of the seat is provided by the lens barrel housing at the light receiving end of the lens barrel housing . The seat and collar hold the lens elements in place within the lens barrel. That is the seat and collar prevent the lens elements from moving relative to the lens barrel . More particularly the lens elements are inserted tightly between the seat and the collar in order to prevent movement of the lens elements within the lens barrel . In the embodiment illustrated the seat is an annular seat.

The lens barrel may also include one or more spacers which separate the lens elements and which hold the lens elements in a fixed orientation and which prevent the lens elements from contacting adjacent lens elements . In at least some embodiments a spacer may be located between each pair of adjacent lens elements . In at least some embodiments the spacers may be annular and may define an opening through which light may pass. The spacers may in at least some embodiments be constructed of plastic. In some embodiments the spacers may be constructed of a material which is compressible such as a rubber material and the collar and seat may compress the spacers 

In the embodiment illustrated in the lens barrel includes three spacers a first spacer a second spacer and a third spacer . In other embodiments a greater or lesser number of spacers may be included. The number of spacers may depend upon the number of lens elements in the lens barrel . The lens barrel the spacers and the lens elements may collectively form a lens.

In at least some embodiments the camera module includes an infrared IR cut off filter which may be referred to as an IR cut filter . An IR cut filter is a filter which is designed to reflect or block mid infrared wavelength light while passing visible light. That is the IR cut filter is configured to remove IR light.

The IR cut filter is disposed within the camera module between the lens elements and the image sensor . That is the IR cut filter is disposed so that light which passes through the lens barrel and which is emitted from the lens barrel at the light providing end of the lens barrel passes through the IR cut filter before reaching the image sensor . In such embodiments light which reaches the image sensor is light which has passed through the IR cut filter . Accordingly the IR cut filter removes IR light so that only visible light is captured by the image sensor . The IR cut filter may have a size and shape which corresponds to the size and shape of the image sensor . In the example illustrated both the image sensor and the IR cut filter are rectangular in shape.

The camera module includes a housing which houses components of the camera module such as the image sensor . In the example illustrated the housing is shaped as a rectangular prism having four sides a first side second side third side and a fourth side .

The housing may also include a bottom side which may in at least some embodiments be a substrate such as a PCB such as a flexible PCB or another electrical connector for connecting the camera module to other components of an electrical device. The bottom side of the housing is located near the image sensor .

The substrate may connect to the image sensor . For example the image sensor may be connected to the substrate on an interior side of the substrate . The substrate may also have a connection interface for electrically connecting the substrate to other components of an electronic device such as a processor . That is the substrate electrically connects electrical components of the camera module such as the image sensor and or an actuator to one or more external electrical components. In at least some embodiments the camera module may be a surface mount camera module which is configured to connect to a PCB via surface mounting techniques. In at least some embodiments the substrate includes a board to board B2B connector for connecting the camera module to a mated connector provided on a PCB of an electronic device .

The housing may also include a top side which may be substantially parallel to the image sensor . The top side may be the side of the housing which is further away from the image sensor . In the embodiment illustrated one or more lens elements are located between the top side and the image sensor.

The top side of the housing is the side of the housing which will generally be nearest the subject of an image captured by the image sensor . That is the top side of the housing is located on a light receiving end of the camera module .

The top side of the housing is in at least some embodiments constructed of plastic. In some embodiments the top side of the housing may be constructed of an opaque or near opaque material or may be coated with an opaque or near opaque material to hide internal components of the camera module from external viewing. That is the top side of the housing may act as a baffle for the camera module . The housing may in at least some embodiments also provide electromagnetic interference EMI shielding to other components of the camera module such as the image sensor .

The top side of the housing defines an opening through which at least a portion of the lens barrel may protrude. As will be described in greater detail below the camera module may be equipped with an actuator which moves the lens barrel relative to the image sensor . That is the actuator moves the lens barrel between two extreme positions e.g. terminal positions including a first position which is illustrated in and a second position which may be the position illustrated in or the position illustrated in . These extreme positions may also be referred to as terminal positions. The terminal positions are the end positions provided by the actuator . That is the terminal positions are the positions which are at the end of the range of the actuator .

The opening may have a shape which corresponds to the shape of at least a portion of the lens barrel . For example in the example embodiment illustrated the opening is circular and the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening has a circular perimeter i.e. the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening may be cylindrical .

The opening may have a size which corresponds to the size of the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening . For example the opening may be slightly larger than the size of the lens barrel which passes through the opening. In the embodiment illustrated the lens barrel has a circular perimeter along the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening and the opening is a slightly larger circle.

As will be described in greater detail below the portion of the top side of the housing which surrounds the opening may be configured to receive a gasket on the external surface of the top side . A cover may be placed over the gasket to seal the camera module from outside elements such as dust and debris. Since the top side is configured to receive a gasket the top side may be referred to as a gasket seat.

In at least some embodiments not shown a seal may be provided on the camera module to seal the portion of the opening between the top side and the lens barrel to prevent dust and debris from entering the camera module . That is a seal may be provided between the portion of the top side which defines the opening and the lens barrel. The seal may be constructed of a flexible material such as rubber and may be located in the opening between the non open portion of the top side i.e. the portion of the top side which defines the opening and the lens barrel .

The camera module includes an actuator which engages the lens barrel and which moves the lens barrel relative to the image sensor . That is the actuator moves the lens barrel between two extreme positions including a first position which is illustrated in and a second position which may be the position illustrated in or the position illustrated in . When the lens barrel is in the second position the lens barrel is nearer the image sensor than when the lens barrel is in the first position.

Accordingly the actuator is configured to move the lens barrel to a first position in which at least a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening defined by the top side of the housing. The first position which is illustrated in is one of the two extreme positions provided by the actuator . The first extreme position represents a position in which the lens barrel is in its furthest position from the image sensor . When in the first position the lens barrel protrudes from the housing of the camera module . That is portions of the lens barrel are on both sides of the opening top side of the housing . In at least some embodiments when in the first position at least one of the lens elements is located outside of the housing . More particularly in the example embodiment illustrated the uppermost lens element is external to the housing .

In at least some embodiments the actuator may be processor controlled. More particularly in at least some embodiments the actuator is communicably coupled to a controller such as the processor of or another processor. For example the processor may be connected to the actuator via the connection interface of the camera module .

The processor may be an image signal processor and may be configured to activate the actuator to cause the actuator to move the lens barrel relative to the image sensor in order to focus the camera module on a subject. Since the lens barrel is a component of the lens movement of the lens barrel results in movement of the lens itself. That is other components of the lens may be moved in addition to the lens barrel. For example movement of the lens barrel results in movement of the lens elements 

The lens of a camera module which includes the lens elements recreates an optical image of a scene to capture in an optical image plane. In order to provide auto focusing the lens which includes the lens elements is moved relative to the image sensor so that the optical image place matches the position of the sensor image plane.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments the processor may be configured to drive the actuator in order to focus the camera module .

The actuator may in at least some embodiments be a voice coil motor based actuator. In at least some embodiments the actuator may include a movable portion and a fixed portion . The movable portion may be affixed to the lens barrel . In the example embodiment illustrated the movable portion is cylindrical and surrounds the lens barrel . The movable portion may move relative to the image sensor and to the fixed portion . The fixed portion may be held in a fixed position with respect to the image sensor . That is the fixed portion may not move relative to the image sensor . The fixed portion may however be configured to cause the movable portion to move relative to the image sensor also causing the lens barrel to move relative to the image sensor . In the example illustrated the fixed portion is fixed within the housing and the exterior of the fixed portion i.e. the portion which is near the housing has a size and shape which corresponds to that of the housing . In this example case the exterior is a rectangular prism and the interior of the fixed portion i.e. the portion which is near the movable portion has a size and shape corresponding to the size and shape of the exterior of the movable portion in this example case the interior is substantially cylindrical .

The movement of the movable portion may be caused for example as a result of a magnetic field produced by the fixed portion . However other types of actuators may be used in other embodiments.

While illustrates one possible position of the lens barrel the actuator may also move the lens barrel from the position of to another position. Referring now to the actuator may be configured to move the lens barrel from the first position illustrated in to a second position which is illustrated in . The second position illustrated in may in at least some embodiments represent a second extreme position. That is the position of the lens barrel in may represent the closest position between the lens barrel and the image sensor that is provided by the actuator . The actuator may move the lens barrel between two extreme positions the first extreme position such as the example position of and the second extreme position which may be the position of .

In the lens barrel is held by the actuator in a position in which at least a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening . In the embodiment of a portion of the lens barrel protrudes from the housing of the camera module . However the portion which protrudes from the housing in the second extreme position illustrated in is not as large as the portion which protrudes from the housing in the first extreme position illustrated in . Accordingly in at least some embodiments the actuator is configured to only move the lens barrel between positions where the lens barrel extends through the opening . The degree to which the lens barrel protrudes from the housing may however vary.

Referring now to in other embodiments the actuator may be configured to move the lens barrel from a first position in which a portion of the lens barrel protrudes from the housing an example of which is illustrated in to a second position in which no portion of the lens barrel protrudes from the housing . The second position illustrated in may in at least some embodiments represent a second extreme position. That is the position of the lens barrel in may represent the closest position between the lens barrel and the image sensor that is provided by the actuator . The actuator may move the lens barrel between two extreme positions the first extreme position such as the example position of and the second extreme position which may be the position of .

The second position illustrated in is similar to the second position illustrated in except that in a portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening and protrudes from the housing while in no portion of the lens barrel extends through the opening and protrudes from the housing.

In at least some embodiments the lens barrel housing may be externally shaped to resemble two or more stacked cylinders. The cylinder s in the stack which are nearer the image sensor may have a greater diameter than the cylinder s which are relatively further from the image sensor .

Also in the embodiment of the lens elements are each approximately the same size. That is the lens elements are each circular and have a common diameter. However in other embodiments the lens elements may be of different sizes. That is the perimeter or diameter of the lens elements may vary. In at least some embodiments an uppermost lens element which is the lens element that is furthest from the image sensor may have a smaller diameter than a lowermost lens element which is the lens element that is closest to the image sensor .

Accordingly the actuator is configured to move a portion of the lens barrel through the opening defined by the housing of the camera module . In order to permit the lens barrel to move freely through the opening the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening defined by the housing of the camera module is designed to pass freely through the opening . For example the portion of the lens barrel which is designed to move through the opening may for example have an exterior size and shape which corresponds to the size and shape of the opening. That is the portion of the lens barrel which passes through the opening may have a similar size and be slightly smaller than the opening .

Referring now to an example embodiment of electronic device is illustrated in cross section. The electronic device includes the camera module of . The cross section is taken along the line of . In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a smartphone . However the electronic device could be another type of device in other embodiments.

For the purposes of illustration the reference numerals identifying features of the camera module have been removed from the illustration of .

In the camera module is in the first position which is described above with reference to . In the first position a lens barrel of the camera module protrudes from the housing of the camera module . The lens barrel may also be moved by the actuator to a second position such as the second position described with reference to or .

In the embodiment of the electronic device includes a gasket which is located on a gasket seat of the camera module i.e. the top side of . The gasket seat is provided on the exterior of the housing of the camera module . The gasket may be an annular gasket which defines a gasket opening. When the camera module is in the first position e.g. the position described with reference to a portion of the lens barrel of the camera module extends within the gasket opening.

The gasket may include a camera module side which is located nearest the gasket seat i.e. the top side of and an exterior side which is located away from the gasket seat.

The gasket may be sized so that the lens barrel does not protrude through the gasket. That is in either extreme position provided by the camera module the lens barrel does not extend fully through the gasket opening to protrude from the gasket . The lens barrel may extend within the opening but may not extend fully through the opening to protrude from the gasket.

The amount by which the lens barrel protrudes from the housing may be less than the height of the gasket .

The electronic device may also include a cover disposed on the exterior side of the gasket to cover the gasket opening. The cover is in at least some embodiments provided by a housing of the electronic device . The cover may compress the gasket against the camera module . The cover and the gasket may seal the lens barrel from dust and debris. In at least some embodiments the gasket is constructed of a compressible material such as rubber.

The cover may in at least some embodiments be constructed of plastic. To permit light to enter the camera module at least a portion of the cover which covers the gasket opening may be clear.

The camera module may be mounted on or connected to a PCB of the electronic device . The electronic device may include other components which are not specifically illustrated in and in practice the area to the left and right of the camera module will include some such components.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative embodiments included of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments included of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

