---

title: Search engine optimization with secured search
abstract: One example includes a method of attributing revenue to keywords for an entity having an entity website. The method may include obtaining the keywords used in a secured search on a search engine that result in a visit to an entity website and determining a position or rank of a webpage of the website on a search results page resulting from searching the keyword. The method may further include estimating, based on the rank of the webpage, a number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141700&OS=09141700&RS=09141700
owner: BRIGHTEDGE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09141700
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
This patent application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 581 961 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ESTIMATING ORGANIC WEB TRAFFIC FROM A SECURED SOURCE filed Dec. 30 2011 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Search engine optimization SEO generally describes the use of computing systems for running computing processes that collect store and analyze search engine data in order to provide recommendations to improve visibility of a website or a webpage in search engines. Search engine results can be obtained by one or more search strategies such as natural un paid organic or algorithmic search results as well as for paid search algorithms of search engine marketing SEM target paid listings. Generally the higher a website is located on a website listing and the more frequently a website appears in the search results list the more visitors it will receive from the search engine s users.

SEO is implemented by Internet Technology IT professionals to improve the volume and quality of traffic to a given webpage or other Internet site. Typical techniques include keywords in title tags keywords in meta tags keywords in body text anchor text in inbound links age of site site structure link popularity in a site s internal link structure amount of indexable text page content number of links to a site popularity relevance of links to site and topical relevance of inbound link tags any of which can include SEO data. Additional techniques are sometimes employed based on the search engine for which the webmaster is attempting to optimize. Since search engine algorithms and metrics are proprietary as opposed to publicly available search engine optimization techniques including the use of algorithms and metrics in conjunction with a computer or computing system are widely used to improve visibility of a webpage or other Internet site on search engine result pages. Entities such as companies and individuals may employ SEO to improve the volume and quality of traffic to their websites to increase sales brand recognition dissemination of their product advertising or for any other purpose.

Recent transitions by search engines include increased use of an encryption protocol called Secure Sockets Layer SSL in order to adopt stronger security standards. SSL and its predecessor Transport Layer Security TLS are useful in preventing eavesdropping and tampering of users communication across a network. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a widely used networking protocol for the World Wide Web. Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS is a combination of HTTP with SSL TLS protocol to provide encrypted communication and secure identification of a network web server.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In general example embodiments relate to attributing revenue to a keyword resulting in visits to a website.

In one example embodiment a method for determining revenue attributable to keywords used in a secured search is disclosed. The method may include obtaining a keyword used in a secured search that resulted in a visit to a website. The method may also include determining a rank of a webpage of the website on a search results page resulting from searching the keyword. The method may also include estimating based on the rank of the webpage a number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword.

In another example embodiment a method for determining revenue attributable to keywords used in a secured search is disclosed. The method may include obtain SEO data including a keyword used in the secured search that resulted in visits to a webpage. The module may also obtain SEO data including at least one revenue attribution metric. The module may then determine a rank of a webpage on a search results page resulting from searching the keyword. Based on the rank of the webpage the module may then estimate a number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword. The module may then generate a report based on the SEO data obtained indicating an aggregate value of the keyword.

In yet another example embodiment a computer readable medium is disclosed. The computer readable medium may be encoded with a computer program having computer executable instructions for causing a computing system to perform operations for determining revenue attributable to keywords used in a secured search. The operations of the computing system may include first obtaining SEO data. The SEO data may include a keyword used in the secured search that resulted in visits to a webpage. The SEO data may also include a predetermined value of the keyword to the webpage. The SEO data may also include a percentage value assigned to the rank of the webpage. The operations of the computing system may also include determining a rank of a webpage on a search results page resulting from searching the keyword. The operations of the computing system may also include estimating a number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword based on the number of searches performed during a period within the search engine using the keyword and a predetermined percentage value based on the rank of the webpage.

These and other aspects of example embodiments of the invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims.

are arranged in accordance with at least one of the embodiments described herein and which arrangement may be modified in accordance with the disclosure provided herein by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Recently search engines have begun to use secured searches and in particular secured organic searches. One type of secured search may be implemented using a protocol called the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS . Some searches may be performed through nonsecured searches through a search engine. In addition some nonsecured searches may be performed using toolbars such as the Google Toolbar. However in a secured organic search when a user selects a website or webpage from a secured search results page the user is directed to the website or webpage by the secured search results page. The search engine may indicate to the website or webpage that the incoming traffic was directed from a secured search results page however no further data may be transmitted to the website. Thus for the portion of visitors who are referred to a website through a search engine utilizing secured search an entity associated with the website including the website proprietor webmaster SEO manger or the like may be able to determine that the visitor came through a keyword search but not determine the keywords used in keyword searches that drove traffic to the entity s website. A keyword may be any input used by a search engine to develop a search result webpage or list based on that keyword. The term keyword may refer to a single word including numbers symbols or any combination of single words numbers and symbols.

Traditionally when a visitor visits an entity s website the entity may be able to determine some or all of the keywords used in the original keyword search that drove traffic to the entity s website. Thus previously an entity may have easily determined keywords that produced higher quantities of traffic and attribute revenue herein termed SEO revenue attribution to keywords. Furthermore the entity may have further optimized the website for the keywords to further increase or maintain the traffic generated by the keyword. However as noted with the introduction of secured search SEO revenue attribution has become more restricted.

Accordingly embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to the use of computing systems and computing processes to perform among other things a method for determining revenue attributable to keywords used in a secured search.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method for attributing revenue to keywords for an entity having an entity website is included. The computer implemented method may require that a sample of the top key words driving traffic to a website be obtained from which a selected keyword is designated. For the selected keyword a rank of the website within the organic keyword search is determined using the selected keyword. A percentage value herein termed a Click Through Rate CTR may be determined. The CTR may be a predetermined percentage value. The CTR may represent the percentage of visits to an entity s website that will occur based on the rank of a webpage of the entity within the organic keyword search. The number of secured searches using the keyword within a given search engine is then obtained from the search engine. The CTR is then used to determine an estimated number of visits to the entity s website by multiplying number of secured searches using the keyword by the CTR. The entity may also predetermine an amount of revenue that is generated by a user visiting the website that is directed to the webpage by searching for the keyword. Revenue attribution is then determined by multiplying the estimated number of visits generated by the selected keyword by the predetermined revenue per visit associated with the selected keyword.

Alternately or additionally in some embodiments the entity may also create a user defined template by grouping webpages together based on the frequency of related keywords appearing within the webpage and monitoring the traffic to the user defined webpages resulting in a product or service being purchased by a customer. An example of such user defined templates according to some embodiments is described in more detail in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 855 668 entitled OPERATIONALIZING SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION filed Aug. 12 2010 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The functionalities described herein can be applied to optimizing webpages for a website including determining an aggregate revenue value for a keyword as discussed in more detail below.

Alternately or additionally in some embodiments the keywords driving traffic to a website may be the result of only nonsecured searches within the search engine. In some embodiments the keywords driving traffic to a website may be the result of only secured searches within the search engine. In yet another embodiment the keywords driving traffic to a website may be the result of a combination of either secured or nonsecured searches within the search engine. Likewise the number of secured searches using the keyword within a given search engine may be obtained from the search engine listing the number of nonsecured searches the number of secured searches or a combination of either secured or nonsecured searches using the keyword within a search engine.

Reference will now be made to the figures wherein like structures will be provided with like reference designations. It is understood that the figures are diagrammatic and schematic representations of some embodiments of the invention and are not limiting of the present invention nor are they necessarily drawn to scale.

The network may include the Internet including a global internetwork formed by logical and physical connections between multiple wide area networks and or local area networks and can optionally include the World Wide Web Web including a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet. Alternately or additionally the network may include one or more cellular RF networks and or one or more wired and or wireless networks such as but not limited to 802.xx networks Bluetooth access points wireless access points IP based networks or the like. The network can also include servers that enable one type of network to interface with another type of network.

The web server can include any system capable of storing and transmitting a webpage to a user. The web server can provide access to the webpages of a website to be analyzed for improving SEO. For example the web server can include a computer program that is responsible for accepting requests from clients user agents such as web browsers and serving them HTTP and HTTPS responses along with optional data contents which can include HTML documents and linked objects for display to the user. Alternately or additionally the web server can include the capability of logging some detailed information about client requests and server response to log files.

The website can include any number of webpages. The aggregation of references to the various webpages can be referred to as traffic. References to a website or a webpage can include any reference to the webpages of a website which directs a visitor to the webpage. It should be noted that webpage as used herein refers to any online posting including domains subdomains web posts Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs Uniform Resource Locators URLs images videos or other piece of content and non permanent postings such as e mail and chat unless otherwise specified.

In some embodiments the deep index engine is configured to use identified search terms related to one or more webpages of the website in order to perform a search of the network to identify ranking of webpages in the website. The deep index engine may be further configured to score the results of the search network with respect to the webpages of the website. This score may include a rank or position at which a particular webpage is displayed within the search results with regard to a keyword or keyword combination. The relative position or rank of the webpages within the search result can affect how the keyword or keyword combination affect actions of a search engine relative to a webpage. Accordingly by determining the relative position of the webpages of a website within search results the deep index engine may be able to determine a current performance metric for each of the webpages and or search terms as they relate to the website.

Alternately or additionally the deep index engine may be configured to score the search results for each of the search terms with respect to other entities including entities found in the competitive listing for the search results. Accordingly the deep index engine may be configured to gather external data related to performance of the webpages of the website.

Alternately or additionally the deep index engine may be configured to crawl the search results related to each of the search parameters to retrieve external data. In particular the deep index engine may be configured to crawl the search results for each of the search terms and analyze data associated with the crawl including on page information and back link data e.g. back link URL anchor text etc. for each URL in the search result. The deep index engine may then analyze the data to identify additional search terms that may be relevant for each webpage but which may not have been searched or on which the webpages do not rank. In some embodiments this analysis may include conducting a keyword frequency search. Accordingly the deep index engine may be configured to surface additional search terms for relation to the webpages of the website. In some embodiments these additional search terms and opportunities are identified and targeted in any channel e.g. SEO paid search social networks etc. . Cross channel opportunities are also a part of the opportunity identification e.g. if a customer is not ranking on a keyword on organic search that a competitor ranks on the customer can immediately target this keyword in paid search .

A deep index engine according to some embodiments is described in more detail in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 436 704 entitled COLLECTING AND SCORING ONLINE REFERENCES filed May 6 2009 which application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The functionalities described herein can be applied to optimizing webpages for a website including determining an aggregate revenue value for a keyword.

The SEO module may be configured for orchestrating and performing operations for obtaining an aggregate value of a selected keyword. The SEO module may obtain the keywords used in a secured search that resulted in a visit to an entity s website by crawling the webpages as needed. The SEO module may then use a rank or a position such as a pixel position of an entity s webpage on a search results page to estimate the number of visits to the entity s website as a result of secured searches of the keyword. The SEO module may then obtain the aggregate revenue value of the keyword based on number of visits and a value of the selected keyword such as a predetermined revenue per visit for the keyword.

The SEO module may communicate with a website database through the network . The website database can include webpages such as search result webpages of the search engine website . The website database can further include webpages relating to statistical data for keyword driven traffic within the search engine website such as a webpage within Google Adwords or Google Webmaster Tools displaying statistical data for keyword driven searches. It should be understood that the data from the search engine result webpages may be stored in any configuration without departing from the embodiments described herein.

The website computing system can obtain SEO data from the search engine result webpages by accessing the search engine website through a web server such as the web server of . Furthermore the search engine result webpages can be collected by crawling the webpages . In some embodiments the webpages can be crawled using the deep index engine of for instance. In some embodiments the webpages can be crawled using a different mechanism.

Referring again to the SEO computing module the ranking module within the SEO computing module can be configured to analyze the webpages of the search engine website obtain one or more metrics SEO data or both from the webpage . The ranking module can include one or more algorithms for analyzing the data from the webpages . For example in some embodiments the ranking module can analyze on page data references to the entity webpages to identify the rank of the entity webpages within search result webpages of the search engine website .

The estimated visit module can obtain data from the ranking module and the webpages and can be configured to determine an estimated number of visits to a website resulting from a secured keyword search on the search engine website using the selected keyword. The estimated visit module can include one or more algorithms for processing the data obtained from the ranking module the webpages relating to keyword statistics and the database containing predetermined values. Based on the data from the ranking module the webpages relating to keyword statistics and the database containing predetermined values the estimated visit module can multiply the number of secured searches performed by the CTR to determine an estimated number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword.

Alternately or additionally the estimated visit module can obtain data from the user defined template discussed above with reference to the copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 855 668. Specifically the estimated module may determine the number of visits to a webpage or a group of webpages having a higher frequency of related keywords appearing within the webpage or webpages and monitor the traffic to the user defined webpages resulting in a product or service being purchased by a customer. Based on the data from the user defined template traffic the estimated visit module can multiply the number of estimated visits based on a sampling of keywords appearing at a higher frequency within the webpage or groups of webpages by the CTR to determine an estimated number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword. Further the sampling of keywords may be used by the ranking module to determine the rank or position of the entity s website for the sampling of keywords. Thus the ranking module may determine the rank or position of keywords provided from resources beyond the keywords provided from webpages relating to statistical data for keyword driven traffic within the search engine website discussed above.

The SEO revenue attribution module can obtain data from the estimated visit module and from the database containing predetermined values and can be configured to determine an aggregate value for the selected keyword. The SEO revenue attribution module can include one or more algorithms for processing the obtained data. Based on the data from the estimated visit module and from the database containing predetermined values the SEO revenue attribution module can multiply the estimated number of visits with a predetermined value per visit to determine an aggregate value for the selected keyword.

The reporting module can compile information from the ranking module and or the estimated visit module and or the SEO revenue attribution module to generate a report of the SEO revenue attribution including the aggregate value for the selected keyword. The reporting module can include one or more algorithms that can generate one or more reports relating to the aggregate value.

In some embodiments as shown in the method may include the steps of obtaining the keywords used in a secured search that resulted in a visit to a webpage block determining a rank of the webpage on a search results page resulting from securely searching the keyword block obtaining the number of secured searches for the keyword block estimating based on the rank of the webpage a number of visits to the website that result from secured searches of the keyword block and obtaining the aggregate value of the keyword block .

Alternately or additionally the number of visits to the website that resulted from a secured search of the keyword block may be estimated by obtaining data relating to the number of visits to individual webpages of the website from which the number of visits to the website can be determined by relative scale.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments. Obtaining the keywords block shown in may include obtaining from a commercial search engine or any search engine the keywords resulting in traffic to an entity s website. Obtaining the keywords block may also include obtaining keywords from data including but not limited to toolbar data API data aggregated demographic data aggregated log data and the like. Further obtaining the keywords block may also include obtaining the keywords from a sampling of keywords from a user defined template as discussed above. In some embodiments only a limited number of keywords may be obtained from a search engine. Furthermore only the limited number of keywords used over a period may be obtained from a search engine. For example the Google search engine may only provide the top 1000 keywords that drove traffic to an entity s website during the last 30 days through Google Webmaster Tools.

Determining the rank of a webpage for a keyword block of of the SEO module may include in some embodiments performing a method shown in . In some embodiments the method may be performed by the ranking module illustrated in . From the keywords determined block of in the method of one keyword is selected block of . The keyword may be selected at random manually chronologically in sequence beginning with the keywords most frequently driving traffic to the entity website or automatically for every keyword listed in the keywords determined block of in the method of .

After selecting a keyword block of the keyword is used in a search engine query block of . The search engine query uses the keyword to generate a search results page in a search engine website. The search results page results may be crawled to collect the results of the search engine query from the search results page block of . Once the search has been performed data may be collected determining the entity s website ranking by reference to the position of the entity s webpage beginning from the topward portion of the page downward in relationship to other listed search results block of . Alternately or additionally the steps of determining the rank may be performed by a deep index engine. Other steps in addition to or in alternative to the steps illustrated in method may also be performed to determine a rank of a webpage.

Estimating the number of visits to the webpage block of the method may include additional steps. Example steps may be illustrated in . The number of secured searches performed for the selected keyword may be obtained by referencing such sites as Google Adwords or the like block of . Additionally the CTR percentage value for a keyword may be obtained by referencing the database shown in where a predetermined CTR value is stored block of .

In some embodiments the CTR value may be predetermined by the entity based on an evaluation of a page rank for the entity s website achieved when searching the keyword. In some embodiments the CTR value may be a value associated with how likely a user that performs a search is to visit a website based on the ranking of the website in the search results page. For example a rank of first may be associated with generating a webpage visit 40 of the time when a search is performed whereas a rank of tenth may be associated with generating a webpage visit 10 of the time when a search is performed. The CTR assignment may be based on statistical analysis brand recognition assumptions keyword association assumptions metrics relating to the cost per click value of the keyword associated with advertising platforms such as Google Adwords and the like. Other metrics such as average orders the number of conversions obtained from an analytics webpage such as Google Webmaster Tools and or the like.

After obtaining the number of searches and the CTR the obtained number of secured searches may be multiplied by the obtained CTR value block of to estimate the number of visits to the webpage that result from secured searches of the keyword block of .

Determining an aggregate value for the selected keyword block of of the SEO module may include additional steps. Example steps may be illustrated in . The number of estimated visits may be obtained block of by referencing the steps shown in . In addition a value of the keyword may be obtained by referencing the database shown in where a predetermined value per visit is stored block . The predetermined value per visit may be assigned by the entity based on statistical analysis brand recognition assumptions keyword association assumptions and or the like. For example the keyword running shoes may be assigned a monetary value of ten U.S. dollars. SEO revenue attribution may be calculated by multiplying the number of visits to the website with the value of the selected keyword block of to obtain an aggregate value for the selected keyword block of . The aggregate value represents the value of the keyword to the entity aggregated over a period.

An understanding of the SEO Module of may be assisted by an example. As noted above due to the recent transitions of some search engines to the use of secured search to provide encrypted communication previously noted an entity associated with a website may not be able to determine the path a visitor took to arrive at the entity s website. For example if a website selling shoes is visited by a visitor utilizing the secured search results page of the search engine website the website entity will not be able to discover whether the user searched for shoes running shoes or some other phrase. However an entity may be able to obtain some of keywords used to develop the organic search leading to visits to the entity s website as shown in block of . Search engines such as Google may allow a website entity or their assigned agents to obtain the top 1000 keywords driving traffic to their website by referencing such sites as Google Webmaster Tools. For each keyword listed a determination of where the entity s website is ranked in the search results page resulting from a search of a selected keyword may be determined as illustrated in block of and may utilize the steps illustrated in .

Continuing the example above the keyword shoes may return a search result that ranks the entity s webpage in tenth place whereas the keywords running shoes may return a search result that ranks the entity s webpage in first place. A place of first or tenth is a ranking based on the relative position of the entity s webpage to the webpages of other websites listed within the search results webpage with the first place being located towards the topward portion of the search result webpage and the tenth place being located nine places below the first place position. The entity may determine that a rank of first place may translate into a certain percentage of visits to the entity s website as shown in block of . A CTR can associate the rank of the entity s website in the search result webpage with visits to the entity s website for the selected keyword.

Continuing in the example above the keyword running shoes having a ranking of first may be assigned a CTR of 40 . In this example the CTR of 40 represents that for every 100 times that the search results webpage for the keyword running shoes lists the entity s website in the first position the entity s will receive 40 visits to the entity s website. Then the total monthly number of searches is determined shown in block of for the keyword running shoes and may be 10 000 searches in this example. This total monthly number of searches for running shoes is multiplied shown in block of by the CTR of 40 in this example to obtain an estimated number of visits shown in block of to the entity s website driven from the keyword search of running shoes. Thus the number of visits to the entity s website in this example is 4 000 visits for the past month. If the entity has assigned shown in block of the keyword running shoes a value of 10 then the number of visits shown in of being 4 000 visits can be multiplied by the assigned value shown in block of . Thus for this example the keyword running shoes has an aggregate value block of of 40 000.

The estimated SEO revenue attribution may be useful to the entity to identify keywords that are more valuable to their business. By identifying keywords that are more valuable to the entity and the entity s business the entity and or the entity s agents may focus on generating legitimate content within the entity s website to increase visits to the entity s website. In addition the aggregate value obtained may allow the entity to analyze some keywords that may result in higher revenue if the keyword search resulted in a higher rank of an entity s webpage within search results webpages.

Some embodiments disclosed herein include a computer program product having computer executable instructions for causing a computing system having the computer program product to perform a computing method of the computer executable instructions for estimating SEO revenue attribution for keywords driving traffic to a website. The computing method can be any method described herein as performed by a computing system. The computer program product can be located on a computer memory device which may be removable or integrated with the computing system.

Some embodiments include a computing system capable of performing the methods described herein. As such the computing system can include a memory device that has the computer executable instructions for performing the method.

In some embodiments a computing device such as a computer or memory device of a computer can include a SEO module a ranking module an estimated visit module a SEO revenue attribution module and a reporting module. The SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module can be configured to perform any of the methods described herein. Also the SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module can be combined into a single module or on a single platform.

In some embodiments the SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module platform can be configured such that on peak and off peak search analysis can be accounted for. Thus since page rank is dynamic and configured to change the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module the reporting module and thus the SEO Module platform may be configured to run dynamically. Alternately the SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module platform may be configured to calculate an average or any other calculation designed to quantify aggregate dynamic data.

The methods described herein can be used for attribution of revenue to a keyword used in a search engine website driving traffic to the webpages of the website. Also it can be used for attribution of revenue to a keyword used in two or more different search engines. Moreover the attribution of revenue to a keyword can be done in view of higher used search engines such as Bing Google and Yahoo search engines.

Some embodiments described herein include a computer program product having computer executable instructions for causing a computing system having the computer program product to perform a computing method of the computer executable instructions for obtaining revenue attribution to keywords driving traffic to webpages within a website. The computing method can be any method described herein as performed by a computing system. The computer program product can be located on a computer memory device which may be removable or integrated with the computing system.

Some embodiments described herein include a computing system capable of performing the methods described herein. As such the computing system can include a memory device that has the computer executable instructions for performing the method.

In some embodiments a computing device such as a computer or memory device of a computer can include the SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module. The SEO module the ranking module the estimated visit module the SEO revenue attribution module and the reporting module can be configured to perform any of the methods described herein.

In an illustrative embodiment any of the operations processes etc. described herein can be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable instructions can be executed by a processor of a mobile unit a network element and or any other computing device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In some embodiments several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those generally found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include a determination application that is arranged to perform the functions as described herein including those described with respect to methods described herein. Program Data may include determination information that may be useful for analyzing webpage rank within a search engine results page. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system such that the work performed such as the carrying out of the methods described by untrusted computing nodes can be verified. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may generally be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations. The computing device can also be any type of network computing device. The computing device can also be an automated system as described herein.

The embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware or software modules.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component can refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the system and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments. It should also be recognized that any module or component described herein can implement the functionalities associated with the name of the module or component.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims. All references recited herein are incorporated herein by specific reference in their entirety.

