---

title: Resource management in a wireless communications network
abstract: Detection of an unbalanced network load and redistribution of network traffic to balance the network load is provided herein. Load balancing across different radios in the same sector of a cell site can be facilitated through detection of the unbalance network load and changes to one or more parameters can be made to rebalance the network load. After radios within a sector are more evenly balanced, network load balancing across sectors can be facilitated. The balancing can be performed to improve system performance, reduce a dropped call rate, as well as to achieve other benefits that can provide an improved user experience as compared to systems that do not attempt to balance the network load.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288716&OS=09288716&RS=09288716
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09288716
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and also generally to the management of resources in a wireless communications network.

The wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world. On the user side dropped calls and poor communication have been blamed for user dissatisfaction. On the network side instances of dropped calls and poor communication can occur due to improperly managed resources which could occur during normal usage and or during periods of heavy usage.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to managing resources e.g. voice capacity data capacity and so forth in a wireless network which can be problematic especially due to the exponential growth of voice and data demand. For example the introduction of advanced mobile devices e.g. smart phones and the proliferation of applications that take advantage of the usable bandwidth on a network have increased the amount of data being consumed within a wireless network. It has been estimated that data demand has grown more than five thousand percent within the last few years. Further it has been observed that as a larger amount of bandwidth is provided the quicker the available bandwidth is being consumed. For example as more capacity is added and as more bandwidth hungry applications e.g. streaming video streaming music and so forth are enabled the number of users taking advantage of these applications is increasing and a larger amount of data is being consumed. However capacity expansion is difficult and expensive. Wireless communications systems can be operated with a planned level of congestion e.g. a projected congestion level in order to manage the capital investment necessary to provide the increasing amount of needed bandwidth. However even in the presence of congestion planning resource management remains important in order to satisfy the network demands.

The disclosed aspects provide for the efficient utilization of network resources e.g. voice capacity data capacity and so forth . In an implementation the disclosed aspects can be configured to utilize as many resources as possible within the geographic area e.g. footprint of the sector s . Since a network only has a finite amount of spectrum or cell sites available to support the demand utilization of the spectrum in a cost efficient manner is important and should be implemented regardless of the demands placed on the system during normal usage during high usage during near congestion periods and so on. Spectral efficiency or bandwidth efficiency refers to the information rate that can be transmitted over a given bandwidth in a communication system. Spectral efficiency is usually measured in bps Hz sector and is a measure of how efficiently the spectrum is utilized by the physical layer protocol and or the media access control e.g. channel access protocol .

The link spectral efficiency has an effect on the spectral efficiency of the network. The link spectral efficiency is the net bit rate or maximum throughput rate divided by the bandwidth in hertz of a communication channel or a data link. Link spectral efficiency can be measured in bps Hz. In an attempt to maximize the link spectral efficiency the transmission technology efficiencies and or the system spectral efficiency of the system can be changed in accordance with the various aspects. For example the transmission technology efficiencies can include efficient coding modulation approaches and so on. The system spectral efficiency is a measure of the quantity of users and or services that can be supported at about the same time by a limited radio frequency bandwidth in a defined geographic area and can be measured in bps Hz sector or in bps Hz per unit area. Changing the transmission technology efficiencies and or the system spectral efficiency can include changing the relative efficiency of the various radios that are deployed on a per sector basis and or changing how well the various radios are deployed between sites as discussed herein.

For example in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS each radio e.g. carrier can occupy about 5 MHz of spectrum in the uplink and about 5 MHz of spectrum in the downlink and there can be several radios per sector. Thus if a network has four carriers per sector the total capacity used among the four carriers can be optimized in accordance with the disclosed aspects. Further from a total system point of view the total capacity of the sector in conjunction with its other neighboring sectors e.g. adjacent sectors can be optimized according to an aspect. In this regard for the avoidance of doubt any embodiments described herein in the context of optimizing resource management are not so limited and should be considered also to cover any techniques that implement underlying aspects or parts of the described aspects to improve or increase resource management even if resulting in a sub optimal variant obtained by relaxing aspects or parts of a given implementation or embodiment.

There are various ways to improve system spectral efficiency by adjusting parameters between carriers e.g. radios and between sectors e.g. sites . The disclosed aspects provide for the evaluation of benefits of various approaches in order to improve capacity quality and coverage. Further adjustments to the system including movement of network traffic between spectrum allocations e.g. radios carriers and so on within a sector and or between sectors e.g. sites are provided.

It is noted that although various aspects and embodiments are discussed herein with respect to UMTS the disclosed aspects are not limited to a UMTS implementation. For example aspects or features of the disclosed embodiments can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. Such wireless communication technologies can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies.

Referring initially to illustrated is an example non limiting system configured to manage resources in a wireless communications network according to an aspect. System can be configured to perform self configuration such that one or more resources can be balanced across radios located in a sector according to an aspect. In an implementation system can be configured to balance the one or more resources across carriers or across different radios in the same sector of a cell site.

For example a first carrier e.g. radio might be handling seventy five percent of the network traffic on the sector and a second carrier might be handling only twenty five percent of the network traffic on the sector. Since the first carrier is handling such a large amount of network traffic the first carrier might have a higher dropped call rate than the second carrier which can result in an increase in user dissatisfaction. Therefore system can be configured to balance the network traffic within the sector so that there is not a large discrepancy between the two or more carriers. For example system can balance the network traffic so that there is a close to a fifty fifty percentage split a forty sixty percentage split and so forth between the first carrier and second carrier. By balancing the network traffic load more evenly across the carriers a lower overall dropped call rate can be achieved as well as the reduction of other communication issues that could result in user dissatisfaction.

System can be implemented in a network e.g. base station access point sector and so forth or at a higher level within the network. In an implementation system can be implemented by a third party. As previously noted although various aspects are discussed herein with reference to UMTS the aspects are not limited to a UMTS implementation. Instead the various aspects can be utilized with other network technologies and UMTS technology is utilized herein for purposes of explaining the various aspects.

System can include at least one memory that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications and or wireless communications. The at least one processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the memory . The at least one processor can be directly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s according to an aspect. Additionally or alternatively the at least one processor can be indirectly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s . For example the at least one processor can direct one or more components to perform the operations.

It is noted that although one or more computer executable components may be described herein and illustrated as components separate from memory e.g. operatively connected to memory in accordance with various embodiments the one or more computer executable components could be stored in the memory . Further while various components have been illustrated as separate components it will be appreciated that multiple components can be implemented as a single component or a single component can be implemented as multiple components without departing from example embodiments.

System can include a resource manager that can be configured to analyze a resource of interest and determine how the resource of interest is distributed across radios located within the sector. The resources that can be managed include but are not limited to voice capacity and data capacity. According to some implementations resources that can be managed include power codes erlangs e.g. a unit that measures network traffic radio links and or combinations thereof. Additionally or alternatively resources that can be managed include resource blocks scheduler blocks or scheduler slots frequency layers power settings power utilization IP loading quality of service QoS and or combinations thereof. In accordance with some implementations management of resources can include balancing a load e.g. a network traffic load associated with cellular network coverage and Wi Fi network coverage. However it should be understood that resources other than those listed can be managed in accordance with the disclosed aspects.

The resource manager can be configured to receive an indication of the one or more resources that should be analyzed. For example the selection of resource s of interest can be dynamically configurable such that different resources can be analyzed depending on various parameters e.g. network operating procedures system efficiencies and so forth . Further although a particular resource might be analyzed and balanced during a first balancing procedure a different resource might be analyzed and balanced during a second balancing procedure which can be a function of changing conditions at the sector. In another implementation the resource s of interest can be identified based on an input that is received e.g. from a network component from a network operator and so on at about the same time that the resources should be analyzed.

In an implementation the resource manager can be configured to use a measurement of capacity per radio to determine how the network load is distributed. For example the resource manager can determine the mean capacity e.g. average capacity per radio such as by using the number of radio links e.g. the number of voice sessions being used . However it is noted that resource manager can utilize other resources to measure the capacity per radio and radio links are merely an example. The resource manager can further use the measurement of capacity per radio to determine the average capacity difference for each radio from the mean e.g. average value. For example resource manager can determine whether the measured capacity for each radio is higher than the mean lower than the mean or about equal to the mean to determine how the network load is distributed.

If the resource manager determines that the one or more resources of interest are not distributed relatively evenly within a sector and or if rebalancing should be performed to improve system performance a notification is sent to a resource balancer . Based on the resource s of interest resource balancer can be configured to determine how to redistribute the resource s to achieve the desired result e.g. reduction in dropped calls better system performance and so forth .

The resource balancer can be configured to slowly move network traffic between the radios in order to more evenly distribute the resource s . In an implementation the resource balancer can choose a parameter that has pre defined e.g. small increments in order to level the network load among the radios. For example in an UMTS implementation the parameter Qoffset2sn which is an offset value representing an offset between a source cell and a target cell can be used by the resource balancer to level the load.

The resource manager can continue to monitor the one or more resources of interest. The monitoring can be performed periodically continuously or based on some other parameter e.g. based on an indication of heavy usage an indication of network traffic nearing a congestion level and so forth . In an example at about the same time as the resource balancer moves the user devices e.g. network traffic among the radios the resource manager can review the one or more resources of interest and determine whether more adjustments should be made. In such a manner a feedback loop can be provided wherein resource balancer continues to redistribute resources incrementally until a more balanced network is achieved.

In accordance with some aspects system can comprise a database that can store default parameter values which can be the parameter values before load balancing is performed. According to an aspect the parameter values at each iteration of the load balancing can be stored in the database. If it is determined that network performance or network traffic levels drop below a certain threshold level the default parameter values can be restored and or parameter values at a previous iteration which exhibited network performance or network traffic levels above the threshold level can be restored.

It is noted that a database can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile memory and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can operate as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data stores databases and so on of the various disclosed aspects is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

As discussed it can be beneficial to improve the sector level spectral efficiency bps Hz sector as well as the system spectral efficiency. Since the sector level spectral efficiency interacts with other sectors a balanced load across radios on a given sector should be attempted. Using a measure of capacity per radio which will be discussed in further detail below the system can attempt to balance each radio carrier .

Included in system can be a capacity evaluator that can be configured to compute the mean capacity per carrier Carrier mean cap . According to an implementation capacity evaluator can ascertain the capacity utilized compared to the network traffic carried such as by evaluating the number of radio links used and the equivalent erlang.

Also included in system can be a differentiator that can be configured to compute the average capacity difference for each carrier from the mean. The average capacity difference for each carrier can be above the mean or below the mean.

Based on the average capacity difference a parameter manipulator can choose a parameter with pre defined increments in order to level the load amongst the carriers and adjust the parameters per carrier towards the mean. For example in an UMTS implementation the parameter manipulator can use Qoffset2sn which biases selection of one carrier over another carrier by a certain dB level e.g. received signal code power RSCP energy per chip to total noise and interference power spectral density Ec No and so forth . In an implementation the parameter manipulator can adjust the Qoffset2sn by 1 dB from Carrier x to Carrier mean cap.

Also included in system can be an analyzer that can be configured to determine if the load between radios has been balanced. For example analyzer can determine if the max Capacity carrier x Carrier mean cap is more than 1 dB. If the maximum is less than 1 dB no further action is taken. If the maximum is more than 1 dB through a feedback loop the capacity evaluator or another system component can be triggered and the mean capacity per carrier can be computed again which should be different since the load has been distributed at least incrementally. A similar process can be performed by the system components until the max Capacity carrier x Carrier mean cap is less than 1 dB according to an aspect.

Thus the appropriate input for the condition e.g. resource to be balanced can be analyzed. For example assume there are four resources or four carriers and radio links are to be balanced. For those four carriers the load across each carrier on the specific group in the face can be analyzed to determine if the carriers are balanced. In this example a first carrier has 50 links a second carrier has 5 links a third carrier has 17 links and a fourth carrier has 12 links. Thus system will attempt to achieve a more even state among the carriers. For example appropriate offsets values can be set to achieve a more even balance of radio links across the carriers.

In another example if the resource of interest is a scheduler all the resources on the face can be evaluated. If it is determined that there are 120 user devices in the scheduler on a first radio and on a second radio there are 12 users the network traffic should be shifted from the first radio to the second radio. The shifting of the network traffic can be performed between the two radios in order to rebalance the network traffic such that each radio has network traffic that represents around 55 and 75 users in this example. Such balancing can provide an increased level of throughput for the user devices which can provide a better user experience.

In an implementation the capacity evaluator might determine that a first carrier is handling 81 scheduler slots a second carrier is handling 65 scheduler slots and a third carrier is handling 65 scheduler slots. In this case although the discrepancy between the carriers is not a large discrepancy the resource balancer might decide that some of the load e.g. scheduler slots should be moved off the first carrier and pushed to the second and third carriers. The redistribution of the load can be performed in order to bring the number of scheduler slots handled by each carrier closer to an even distribution of resources.

To determine how to distribute the resources among the three carriers in the above example differentiator can compute an average capacity difference for each carrier from a mean value. For example capacity evaluator can determine that the mean capacity per carrier in the above example is about 70 scheduler slots e.g. 81 65 65 211 3 70.3 . Thus a resource distributor can determine that the first carrier is 11 scheduler slots above the mean and the second and third carrier are 5 scheduler slots below the mean. The resource balancer can utilize the difference from the mean to redistribute the resources according to an aspect e.g. move 10 user devices from the first carrier wherein 5 are moved to the second carrier and 5 are moved to the third carrier .

In an implementation the capacity evaluator or another system component can be configured to evaluate benefits of various approaches in order to utilize the appropriate approach. For example capacity evaluator can consider one or more of the capacity gained versus the quality under a given capacity and or the coverage under the given capacity.

The capacity can be defined through one or more measurement approaches. For example a measurement approach can be defined as the percentage of network traffic gained versus the baseline e.g. the network traffic before changes . For example this metric can be represented as the traffic after changes minus traffic before changes divided by traffic before changes which can be expressed as traffic after changes traffic before changes traffic before changes

Although the above metric can be useful the metric does not take into account additional potential headroom in capacity in the absence of artificially loading up the system to test the limits.

Another example of a measurement approach that can be used to define capacity includes the capacity utilized verses the network traffic carried for example. In an implementation a power equivalent erlang measurement can be used for the definition. In another implementation the radio links used equivalent erlang can be utilized for the definition. In a further implementation the percentage of radio links used versus the maximum e.g. links used links possible can be utilized for the definition of capacity.

For the power equivalent erlang measurement approach the amount of amplifier power utilized e.g. for power limited systems such as UMTS or LTE as a measure of the capacity utilized and the amount of equivalent erlangs for a measure of network traffic is used. Thus when comparing two algorithms the algorithm with the smallest power used equivalent erlang is desired assuming equivalent quality and capacity.

In high capacity venue situations while power is a good measure to indicate how much of the total amplifier capacity and thus carrier capacity is being used in the system if a carrier uses data and voice it does not allow prioritization of voice versus data. Thus it may be useful to break down power into voice power and data power. Unfortunately in UMTS this may not be possible in some situations since in these situations breakdowns of power are non HS power which includes voice ADCH HS signaling R99 data and HS power power for HSPA . For this reason in some high capacity situations it may be useful to allocate resources based on links used which will be described in further detail below.

Collecting power measurements can be possible during a set of variable amounts of time. For example collection of power measurements might be performed every fifteen minutes from the operational support system OSS . However according to other implementations the collection of power measurements can be performed at other time intervals including random time intervals.

For the radio links used equivalent erlang measurement approach the number of radio links utilized can be analogous to how many voice sessions are being used. This measurement can be useful to allocate resources primarily based on voice and data takes the resources secondarily as might be useful in some high capacity situations.

Using the number of radio links can be a useful measure as it can be measured relatively quickly in wireless systems. For example a command can be issued that will return the number of radio links for all carriers on a given cell site. Another advantage of this measurement approach is that it is often available near real time e.g. approximately once a minute from the OSS.

For the percentage radio links used measurement approach the total number of radio links utilized can be measured as a function of the total number of links possible. For example the number of links utilized should take into account first the four way handover links. According to an aspect the total number of links possible could be used as the maximum number of codes possible.

A potential drawback of the above mentioned measurement approaches is that such approaches do not necessarily evaluate future events that might occur. For example such approaches do not anticipate further network traffic that may be coming into the system such as the case for venues that will have a larger than usual amount of network traffic. These types of venues can include stadiums that have a very large number of users where it might be somewhat necessary to look ahead in time and prepare for potential network traffic coming in order to avoid potential overloads e.g. a network traffic congestion situation . Therefore according to an aspect another way that capacity can be defined is through the use of weights or rankings for each resource. For example the capacity can be defined as weight1 multiplied by the capacity utilized plus the sum of one minus weight1 multiplied by the capacity needed by inactive but registered users camping users versus the network traffic carried. This can be expressed as weight1 Capacity utilized 1 weight1 Capacity needed by inactive but registered camping users vs. traffic carried

The above noted measurement approach can vary the weight percentage trades off capacity now versus future needs. Capacity utilized in this case can be defined as power number of radio links and capacity needed which could be a function of the average capacity used by active users.

In a similar manner there can be several ways to measure quality. The quality measurement should balance dropped calls blocked calls for voice and coverage while some measure of data performance may be useful as well. However in some cases improvement of voice often covers data concerns. The methods to measure these metrics can be a function of the technology and or vendor implementation. While improving all three measurements individually can be different it can be useful to combine the metrics into one composite metric.

According to an aspect the composite metric can be determined based on a weighted linear average. This can be determined based on weight1 w1 multiplied by the dropped call rate plus weight2 w2 multiplied by the blocked call rate plus weight3 w3 multiplied by the percentage coverage gain loss verses the base line which can be expressed as w1 dropped call rate w2 blocked call rate w3 coverage gain loss vs. baseline

The advantage of the above approach is that a determination of what the rates should be to match the composite metric versus customer opinion surveys and other information can be performed.

According to another aspect the composite metric can be determined by a multiplicative metric which can be determined based on a drop rate multiplied by the block rate multiplied by the percentage coverage gain loss verses baseline. This can be expressed as drop rate block rate coverage gain loss vs. base line.

An advantage of the above approach is that it accomplishes the minimization of all three metrics. However it does not have weights e.g. ranking to utilize in order to improve performance.

Additionally or alternatively it is possible to use a composite metric that also includes capacity and the overall metric can be improved. However in some aspects a particular capacity approach can be chosen and then the quality can be measured. In an aspect the quality can be measured by comparing to a similar network traffic load according to an example.

A resource balancer can shift the network traffic from a heavily used radio to a lesser used radio in the same sector. Thus the resource balancer can be configured to redistribute the load. For example the resource balancer can set or reset offsets or other parameters in order to move some of the resources off a heavier loaded radio and onto a lesser loaded radio. The resource balancer can redistribute the load in an attempt to achieve a better throughput a better user experience minimize blocking reduce an amount of dropped calls and or to achieve other considerations.

After the resources are balanced within the sector e.g. the capacity of each carrier is within 1 dB of the average for example resources between sectors can be balanced. Included in system is a sector evaluator that can be configured to balance the load across or between adjacent sectors e.g. between neighboring sectors . For example to ensure that network traffic is not lost the sector evaluator can analyze coverage overlap between adjacent sectors and make a determination whether there is enough overlap such that network traffic can be moved e.g. uniformly for all carriers on that sector between the sectors. For example resource balancer can be configured to move network traffic from a first sector e.g. the sector handling more network traffic to a second sector e.g. the sector handling less network traffic until a balance between the sectors is achieved. In accordance with some aspects resource balancer can move the network traffic between the sectors until there is not enough coverage overlap available.

In an UMTS implementation the resource balancer can be configured to adjust the common pilot channel CPICH to push e.g. re route network traffic from one sector to another sector. After some network traffic is moved sector evaluator can measure the network traffic and if the network traffic is essentially balanced no further action is taken. However if the measurement by sector evaluator reveals that the network traffic between the sectors is still unbalanced resource balancer can move additional network traffic. The feedback loop continues until the network traffic is nearly balanced between the sectors.

In accordance with some aspects a condition can be established to determine whether or not network traffic should be moved between the sectors. For example the condition can be that unless the capacity level carrier is greater than a certain level then no adjacent sector balancing is performed. Additionally or alternatively the default parameter values before any changes were made can be stored in the database . If network traffic levels drop below a certain level then the original parameters retained in the database can be restored. Further parameter values at each iteration of the network traffic balancing can be stored in the database and if needed those parameter values can be reverted to if the network traffic level drops below the threshold level.

In another example system can be configured to use timing propagation delays user device e.g. handset received GPS measurements and so forth to determine the distance from the user device to the site. Based on this distance it can be ascertained whether the user device could be moved to a different sector. If the user device is close to the heavily loaded sector the user device might not be moved to another sector. Instead the respective distance of other user devices can be evaluated and one or more of those devices can be moved to a different sector. However if the user device is farther away from the heavily loaded sector it might be appropriate to move the user device to another less heavily loaded sector.

In a more detailed UMTS example the overlap from Sector ref to each adjacent neighboring Sector y can be estimated as SHOry. For each SHOry that is more than 1.3 dB network traffic can be pushed from Sector ref to Sector y by adjusting the CPICH. The network traffic of Sector ref as compared to each of Sector y can be measured. If the network traffic measurements are essentially balanced e.g. within some pre defined measure no further action is taken. If the network traffic measurements are not essentially balanced the overlap from Sector ref to each adjacent neighboring Sector y is estimated and the process repeats. In such a manner a continuous feedback loop is provided to monitor and improve system performance.

As discussed above the coverage can be allowed to change between adjacent sectors by using parameter changes e.g. in UMTS using CPICH . However adjusting coverage through parameters might not be used. Instead changing the coverage through antenna pattern shaping e.g. tilts can be utilized. One way to estimate what tilts are needed to obtain similar performance as the parameter changing approach but by using tilts instead can be performed by first performing the parameter changes and then measuring the propagation delay of about 95 of the users for both the starting configuration and the ending parameter configuration. After these propagation delay values are obtained after putting the parameters back to normal the tilts can be adjusted in order to obtain similar propagation delay profiles of the final resulting parameter change configuration.

Thus the resource balancer can move the network traffic between the radios and or between sectors based on the activity of each respective user device. For example mode distinguisher can identify the user devices that are in idle mode e.g. monitoring the network camped waiting to use the network and resource balancer can move those user devices from a heavy used radio to a less heavily used radio. Moving the idle mode user devices allows those devices to access the carrier unloaded when access is performed.

In another implementation mode distinguisher can identify user devices that are actively using the carrier or the radio and resource balancer can move the active user devices from a heavily used radio to a less heavily used radio. In this case a forced handover can be performed to redistribute the network traffic.

In a further implementation mode distinguisher might determine that user devices in the sectors e.g. both active devices and idle devices should not be moved between radios. Instead user devices accessing the sector e.g. obtaining access should be directed by the resource balancer or another system component to the radio that is less heavily used as determined by the resource manager .

According to an implementation system can include an output component that can be configured to interface with one or more other components not shown which can be components external to system and or components internal to system. In an implementation Wi Fi network coverage can be incorporated with the wireless communications network e.g. co located in the same sector area and the resource to be balanced might be the load associated with the Wi Fi network coverage and the cellular network coverage in order to maintain or to return to an acceptable performance level.

Further to this example if it is determined e.g. by resource manager that the Wi Fi network is being very heavily used the resource balancer can move at least some of the network traffic from the Wi Fi network to the cellular network. As used herein the term cellular refers to any wireless technology including but not limited to UMTS LTE 3GPP 3GPP2 CDMA as well as other standards.

In another implementation network traffic might be moved from cellular network coverage to Wi Fi network coverage. For example when network traffic is moved from the Wi Fi network the output component can communicate with for example an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF . The ANDSF is an entity that assists with the discovery of non 3GPP access networks and can assist with the rules and or policies associated with those networks. Thus system can perform the determination of whether network traffic or other resources should be distributed more evenly and if needed the information can be communicated to the ANDSF in this example and the ANDSF can change the policy. According to an implementation if the Wi Fi network is overloaded the policy can be changed to re route user devices off the Wi Fi network and onto the cellular network.

According to another example scheduler slots are the resource of interest. If the scheduler is full and the entire face is full but the Wi Fi network is available it might be determined that network traffic should be re routed to the Wi Fi network to assist in offloading the face from the data perspective. It should be noted that the network traffic can be pushed in this manner provided the service is appropriate and can manage the resources. For example voice communications might not be able to be moved to the Wi Fi network but data communications might be able to be moved to the Wi Fi network e.g. if the user device is relatively stationary .

An example classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that can be automatically performed. In the case of communication systems for example attributes can be network resources associated with a pair of sectors and or carriers and the classes can be a threshold condition with respect to the number of network resources. In another example the attributes can be network resources and the classes can be a mobile device mode with respect to distribution of the network resources.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM can operate by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also may be inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The disclosed aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing mobile device usage observing network event occurrences receiving extrinsic information and so on . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to modifying one or more radio network parameters moving network traffic between radios in a single sector moving network traffic between radios of different sectors and so forth. The criteria can include but is not limited to network traffic limitations active mobile device applications service provider preferences and or policies location of the mobile device location of one or more sectors and so on.

In view of the example systems shown and described herein methods that may be implemented in accordance with the one or more of the disclosed aspects will be better understood with reference to the following flow charts. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood that the disclosed aspects are not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methods described hereinafter. It is noted that the functionality associated with the blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process component . Additionally it is also noted that the methods disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. The various methods disclosed herein can be performed by a system comprising at least one processor.

If the determination at is that the resources are unevenly distributed YES at the resource is balanced among the first radio and the second radio e.g. according to the predefined criterion . For example a first set of network traffic is directed from the first radio e.g. the more heavily loaded radio to the second radio e.g. the less heavily loaded radio . In accordance with some aspects method can return to e.g. a feedback loop with reevaluation of the distribution of the resource of interest or a different resource of interest between the first radio and the second radio. If it is determined at that the first radio is still handling more network traffic than the second radio at a second set of network traffic can be directed e.g. moved from the first radio to the second radio. In an implementation directing the first set of network traffic the second set of network traffic or subsequent sets of network traffic can include adjusting an offset value representing an offset between the first radio and the second radio.

According to some implementations evaluating and or reevaluating the distribution of one or more resources of interest can include evaluating a distribution of a voice capability a distribution of a data capability or a distribution of both voice capability and data capability between the radios located in the single sector. Additionally or alternatively the evaluating and or reevaluating can include evaluating Wi Fi network usage and cellular network usage between the radios located in the single sector.

In a further implementation the method can include evaluating distribution of a load between the single sector and an adjacent sector. For example the single sector can have a larger load as compared to the adjacent sector. In this case network traffic can be moved from the single sector to the adjacent sector to balance the load between the single sector and the adjacent sector.

At a determination is made whether the resource is distributed unevenly. For example it might be determined that the first radio comprises a higher distribution of the resource e.g. is more heavily loaded than the second radio. If the resources are distributed fairly evenly NO method continues at with further evaluation.

If the resources are not distributed fairly evenly YES at the resource is balanced among the first radio and the second radio within the sector. For example the resource can be balanced to more evenly distribute the resource between the first radio and the second radio.

According to an implementation the balancing can include identifying respective operation modes of user devices using the first radio or the second radio and distributing the user devices between the first radio and the second radio based on the respective operation modes of the user devices. For example the distributing can include moving idle mode user devices from the first radio to the second radio. In another example the distributing can include moving active mode user devices from the first radio to the second radio. In yet another example the distributing can include allowing other access user devices utilization in the sector wherein the other access user devices are connected to the second radio.

In an implementation method can include determining an average capacity for the first radio and the second radio and determining a first capacity difference from the average capacity for the first radio and a second capacity difference from the average capacity for the second radio. One or more parameters can be changed using small or predefined increments in order to level a load between the first radio and the second radio based on the first average capacity difference and the second average capacity difference.

Method can also include evaluating at distribution of a load between the sector and an adjacent sector. For example it can be determined whether the load between the adjacent sectors is distributed unevenly. If not distributed unevenly or distributed within a certain percentage difference NO method can continue at and or with further evaluation.

If the determination at is that the resources are distributed unevenly YES for example it can be determined that the sector has a larger load compared to the adjacent sector. Thus method can continue at and the resources can be balanced between the sectors. For example network traffic can be moved from the heavily loaded sector to the adjacent sector to balance the load between the sector and the adjacent sector.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to detect unbalanced networks loads for radios within a sector and or between sectors is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or eNodeBs and . Any two eNodeBs can be considered an eNodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. eNode B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM and so on. through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to improve space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory such as memory there can be software which can instruct a processor such as processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a PDA phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including a processor to perform operations. The operations can include determining a mean capacity for a first carrier in a sector and a second carrier in the sector. The operations can also include determining a first average capacity difference from the mean capacity for the first carrier and a second average capacity difference from the mean capacity for the second carrier. Further the operations can include changing a first parameter e.g. a parameter between carriers e.g. radios a parameter between sectors e.g. sites and so forth to level a load between the first carrier and the second carrier. The load is level when the first average capacity difference and the second average capacity difference are nearly equal. As utilized herein nearly equal can mean equal within a few values within a certain range within a percentage plus or minus a specific value and so on 

In accordance with some aspects the operations can include determining that the load between the first carrier and the second carrier is not nearly equal and changing the first parameter or a second parameter to level the load between the first carrier and the second carrier. In a further aspect the operations can include estimating a network traffic overlap between the sector and an adjacent sector and pushing traffic from the sector to the adjacent sector wherein a first traffic load of the sector is heavier than a second traffic load of the adjacent sector.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system module and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

