---

title: Visualizing reach of posted content in a social networking system
abstract: Effects of content communications propagated to users of a social networking system may be tracked and measured by the social networking system. Identifiers of content presented to users within a time period before the users interact with the content are recorded. As users interact with the content, additional data describing the interactions with the content and the users interacting with the content are stored. Various metrics may be determined from the data describing interactions with the content. For example including virality metrics and reach metrics, may be determined and presented to the user that posted the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09430439&OS=09430439&RS=09430439
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09430439
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 229 515 filed on Sep. 9 2011. The subject matter of the foregoing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to visualizing the reach of a content item in a social networking system.

Social networking system users become engaged with other social networking system users by sharing photos real time status updates and playing social games. The amount of information gathered from social networking system users is staggering as large amounts of information in the form of news articles videos photos and game achievements shared with other users of the social networking system may be retained. Certain content posted to a social networking system may become viral as users share content with other social networking system users. But conventional social networking systems lack the capability to measure the virality of a content item as well as other metrics about content that may be useful for users to understand how their posted content is seen by others within the social networking system. In particular conventional social networking systems are unable to fully track user interactions with the social networking system.

Embodiments of the present disclosure allow tracking and measurement of effects of a content item and derivatives of the content item propagated to users of a social networking system. A user of the social networking system provides a content item to the social networking system for presentation to other social networking system users. After the social networking system presents the content item the user providing the content item may request to visualize the reach of the posted content item which describes presentation of the content item to social networking system users.

In an embodiment after presenting a content item to social networking system users the social networking system creates label objects and edge object tracking the content item and derivatives of the content item. When a request to visualize the reach of the posted content item is received the social networking system retrieves the created label objects and edge objects and determines reach data from the retrieved label objects and edge objects. The reach data includes information identifying other users of the social networking system performing actions on the posted content item and on content derived from the posted content item and may also include information describing the actions performed on the content item and its derivatives by the other users. The social networking system then provides the reach data to the device for presentation to the user requesting visualization of the content item reach.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Content items presented through a social networking system may encourage users to perform certain actions on the presented objects. Examples of content items include photos videos textual status updates links to websites and user actions within and outside of a social networking system may be shared by users with other users of a social networking system. Examples of actions performed by a user with a content item include expressing a preference of a page presented via the social networking system i.e. users may like the page sharing a content item with other social networking system users or commenting on a content item. Each action performed by a social networking system user may be presented by the social networking system as a new content item. These new content items describing user actions may be described as stories. These stories may be distributed to social networking system users through different communication channels such as news feeds posting on pages maintained by the social networking system and sponsored stories.

Many different types of actions may be performed through a social networking system. Additional examples of actions include commenting on a photo album transmitting messages between users becoming a fan of a musician joining an event joining a group or other similar actions. A user may perform actions with content items on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system. Moreover one or more derivatives of the original content item may propagate within the social networking system in addition to the original content item. A derivative of a posted content item is a version of the content item that has been modified some way by a user of the social networking system. For example a user may post a content item original content item and a second user may re post the content item re post the content item with added commentary etc. The re posted content item is a derivative of the original content item.

The content is then posted to the social networking system from the device. The content item posted to the social networking system may be for example a copy of the content a link to the content the content plus additional content e.g. story plus a personal plea to adopt the dog etc. The social networking system compiles tracking data as the content item propagates through the social networking system. The tracking data includes reach data for visually depicting user interactions with a posted content item. Additionally in some embodiments some or all of the tracking data may be available to users of the social networking system connected to the user posting the content item.

In alternate embodiments the user specifies a tracking property of the content item to cause the social networking system to compile tracking data. The tracking property may be set at any time. For example the user may set the tracking property of the content item while posting or anytime after the content item has been posted.

After the content item has been posted the user may select a reach tracking option associated with the posted content item. The reach tracking option allows a user to receive one or more reach metrics associated with posted content items allowing the user to ascertain the reach of the content item to other users. For example the user may want to know how many people have actually viewed liked shared or selected the posted content item. Reach metrics are discussed in detail below in conjunction with and also described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 229 515 the 515 application filed on Sep. 9 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments a metric tracking option is associated with the content item. The metric tracking option allows a user to indicate visualization of one or more metrics that are associated with the posted content item and or derivatives of that content item. For example in addition to reach metrics the user may track virality metrics engagement metrics conversion metrics location metrics storyteller metrics or some combination thereof.

After selecting the reach tracking option the device sends a visualization request to the social networking system. As discussed in detail below in conjunction with the visualization request may include one or more request parameters specifying conditions associated with the visualization request. For example a request parameter specifies a type of metric to be visually described to the user e.g. reach virality etc. .

The social networking system determines reach data using tracking data compiled for the content item and provides the reach data to the requesting device. The social networking system monitors the propagation of the content item among users of the social networking system using label objects and edge objects as described in the 515 application. In brief label objects include tracking information associated with a tracked content item and users actions relative to that content item. Label objects tracking different generations of the same content item may be generated. For example a first label item may be associated with a content item posted by a user. A second label item may be associated with a re posting of the content item with a personal narrative by a different user. A third label item may be associated with another user that views the re posted content to identify the other user s action relative to the content item. Thus the social networking system may track various generations of content originating from a single content item. Edge objects store information about users connections on the social networking system. Information in an edge object may include the interactions between the user and other objects on the social networking system which include wall posts comments on photos geographic places and tags in photos. Label objects may be associated with edge objects created from the actions performed on objects.

The social networking system uses the tracking information in the label and edge objects to determine one or more metrics such as reach metrics. Reach metrics approximate the number of unique users performing a particular action on a content item and or derivatives of the content item. For example reach metrics may track viewing a content item sharing a content item expressing a preference of a content item liking the content item selecting a content item or some combination thereof. In some embodiments the social networking system dynamically determines reach metrics as users perform actions. Alternatively the social networking system determines the reach metrics in response to receiving a visualization request. In some embodiments the social networking system may also determine virality metrics engagement metrics conversion metrics location metrics storyteller metrics or some combination thereof.

The social networking system formats the reach metrics into reach data in accordance with the visualization request. For example the social networking system filters one or more reach metrics based on request parameters e.g. remove location information in the visualization request. Reach data may calculate direct reach and indirect reach of a content item in the social networking system. Direct reach of a content item is information associated with one or more users directly connected to the user and performing a type of interaction or types of interactions with the content item. Indirect reach of a content item is information associated one or more users that are indirectly connected to the user and that perform a type of interaction or types of interactions with the content item. The social networking system then provides the reach data to the requesting device. Additionally parameters of the visualization request may indicate whether the social networking system provides a data graph to the device or raw data which the device may use to populate a data graph. After receiving the reach data from the social networking system the device presents the received reach data to the user. In some embodiments the social networking system may also present other metrics based on data received from the social networking system e.g. virality metrics from virality data engagement metrics from engagement data etc .

In the example shown by reach data is presented to the user via a data graph . The data graph generally shows a relationship between the content item posted by the user and its propagation and or propagation of its derivatives throughout the social networking system. For example the data graph depicts four concentric circles that represent a degree of connection between users interacting with the content item and the user posting the content item. In these concentric circles are identified as user circle friends circle friends of friends circle and others circle . User circle represents the user s posting of the content item. The friends circle represents the number of users that have performed a particular action on the content item or derivatives thereof and that are directly linked to the user who posted the content. The friends of friends circle represents the number of users that have performed the particular action on the content item or derivatives thereof that are directly linked to a friend of the user who posted the original content item but not directly linked to that user. The others circle represents the number of the users that performed the particular action on the content items or derivatives thereof that are directly or indirectly linked to friends of friends and are not directly linked to the user who posted the original content item or to friends of the user. An action may be for example viewing the content item sharing the content item liking the content item selecting a content item some combination thereof etc.

In this embodiment the data graph includes soft buttons or other interface elements for selecting a particular action of interest to the user. The soft buttons may for example correspond to particular actions performed on the content item and or derivatives thereof. As shown in the View soft button is selected. Accordingly the friends circle the friends of friends circle and the others circle display reach data associated with the number of users who have viewed the posted content item and or derivatives thereof. In the illustrated example 12 friends 50 friends of friends and 200 others have viewed the content item or derivatives of the posted content item. In some embodiments one or more of the soft buttons may present information describing one or more metrics. For example a soft button may include metric data associated with the content item and or derivatives of the content item and an action associated with the soft button a sum of metric data associated with the content item and derivatives of the content item and an action associated with the soft button or some combination thereof.

In one embodiment the user may select one or more of the soft buttons at any time to change the presented reach data. Further the relative sizes of the friends circle the friends of friends circle and the others circle may vary depending on the number of users associated with each of the concentric circles to more clearly identify the number of users associated with different concentric circles. For example in the example shown by the others circle has the largest number i.e. of users associated with it. However if 40 users are associated with the others circle the others circle would be smaller than the friend of friends circle which is associated with 50 users in but larger than the friends circle which is associated with 12 users in .

In some embodiments the device automatically presents the reach data in a particular format e.g. data graph . For example one or more settings stored by the device or by the social networking system specify the format for presentation of the reach data. In other embodiments the device prompts the user to specify a format for presentation of the reach data when the reach data is received . Additionally the user may modify the format with which the reach data is presented at any time. For example the device may prompt the user to choose a particular format for a data graph before displaying the reach data and may allow the user to choose a different format while the data graph is displayed. Additionally the device may allow a user to set up a default format for presentation of reach data unless a user selection of a different format is received.

Alternate formats for data graphs of reach data are illustrated in . is a data graph visualizing propagation of a content item within a social networking system using a number of connected nodes showing degrees of connections between the users providing the content item and users interacting with the content item and or derivatives of the content item. Each node in the data graph is identified by a number representing how closely the user represented by the node is connected to the user posting the content item. For example the second tier i.e. nodes are labeled 2 are users connected to the user posting the content item the third tier are users connected to a user connected to the user posting the content and tiers above the third tier are others as described above in conjunction with . Additionally the links between nodes represent a particular interaction between two nodes such as when a user expresses an interest in a content item shared by another user.

In some embodiments a data graph may also display reach information applicable to pages and public figures that have other distribution connection types e.g. users who like a page or subscribe to a particular page . In this embodiment a user who administers the page profile may send a visualization request via a device to the social networking system. For example the user may wish to view the reach of the page profile or a particular content item posted on the page profile. And with reference to data graph instead of the user circle the friends circle the friends of friends circle and the others circle the data graph may display a page profile circle a fan subscriber circle and a everyone circle. The page profile circle represents the page profile of a public figure a business a non profit organization a music group etc. The fan subscriber circle represents the number of users who like or subscribe to the page profile and the everyone circle may represent the total number of users. Additionally in some embodiments other circles may be added to the data graph e.g. number of users who view the page profile but do not like the page .

The devices comprise one or more computing devices capable of processing data as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . Examples of a device include a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a laptop computer a desktop computer or any other suitable computing device. A device may execute a social networking application allowing a social networking system user to exchange data with the social networking system via a device and the network . Alternatively a social networking system user accesses the social networking system via a browser executing by the device . User identifying ID information for users of the device previously accessing the social networking system may be stored by the device .

The devices are configured to communicate with the social networking system and or other devices via the network . In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include wired and or wireless communication channels using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 family of standards worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used by the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of the communication channels may be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec . Data sources are sources of content communicating with the social networking system and or one or more devices via the network . Examples of a data source include a news agency website a company website or any other source of content.

The social networking system communicates with one or more devices and or one or more data sources via the network . is an example block diagram of a system architecture of the social networking system . The social networking system includes a web server a content store an action logger an action log a user profile store an edge store a label store a causation tracking module a metric analysis module and a reach data module . In other embodiments the social networking system may include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the devices for example visualization requests metric data instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store and or data source . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native user device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS and RIM.

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos and audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items included in the content store may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social networking system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of content items include suggested connections to users suggestions to perform actions media provided to the social networking system media maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system .

The action logger receives communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions to track them. Examples of actions include adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with a user attending an event or other suitable actions. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users and are associated with the particular users as well.

The action log stores information describing user actions performed internal to the social networking system as well as user actions performed on external websites that communicate information to the social networking system . As mentioned above users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a device . The action log may also include user actions on external websites. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells luxury shoes at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through website plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user. Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this luxury shoe reseller may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including viewing histories content items that were clicked on purchasing activity and buying patterns.

User account information and other information related to a user are stored in the user profile store . The user profiles stored in user profile store describe the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example default formats for data graphs images videos etc. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with information identifying the social networking system users displayed in an image. Additional information that may be included in a user profile includes age gender interests geographic location email addresses credit card information and other personalized information. The user profile store also maintains references to the actions stored in the action log and performed on objects in the content store .

The edge store stores edges describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system . Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system . The information about an edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users is stored in the edge store .

The label store stores label objects including tracking information associated with a tracked content item and users actions relative to the content item. Additionally the social networking system may create label objects tracking different generations of a content item. Label objects may be associated with edge objects created as a result of the actions performed on content items. Label objects are further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 229 515 the 515 application filed on Sep. 9 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The causation tracking module generates label objects stored in the label store associated with edge objects for user actions. The label objects include identifiers for content items presented to the user performing an action prior to the action being performed. When generating a label object the causation tracking module may also identify additional label objects associated additional edges associated with the content item presented to the user. Hence if a content item was generated as a result of a prior user action a label object identifying the user and the action generating the content item is generated and stored in the label store . Subsequently if the content item is provided to an additional user that performs an action after being presented with the content item an additional label object describing the action by the additional user is generated and associated with the label object describing the action generating the content item by the causation tracking module .

The metric analysis module determines various metrics from label objects generated by the causation tracking module . Examples of metrics generated by the metric analysis module include reach metrics virality metrics engagement metrics conversion metrics location metrics and storyteller metrics. A reach metric identifies a number of unique users performing a particular action on a content item and or derivatives of the content item. For example a reach metric tracks users viewing a content item sharing a content item liking a content item selecting a content item or performing other suitable actions with a content item. The reach metric may also identify the number of users e.g. fans subscribers who are linked to a particular page profile in the social networking system . For example the reach metric may identify the number of users who subscribe or like a particular page profile in the social networking system . A reach metric may be segmented based on demographics geographic location types of user actions interests of users and other user characteristics. A virality metric describes how quickly a content item was distributed throughout the social networking system the replication rate of a content item over time. Virality metrics may be compared for different content items. Additional details about a reach metric a virality metric and other metrics e.g. engagement and storyteller are provided in the 515 application.

The metric data module processes visualization requests received from devices and creates metric data from the metric analysis module . Metric data is generated from formatting one or more metrics from the metric analysis module for delivery to the requesting device based on a visualization request. For example reach data is generated from one or more reach metric s formatted for delivery to a device from which the visualization request is received based on information in the visualization request. As noted above a request to visualize a particular data type such as reach data includes one or more request parameters. Examples request parameters specify one or more of a data type a graphic type a metric type one or more filters or other suitable data. A data type specifies whether the device requests raw values that the device uses to create a data graph or whether the device requests a data graph generated by the social networking system . Graphic type identifies a format or type of a graph used to display received metric data. In some embodiments a graphic type specification identifies a default format associated with a user that may be stored in the user profile store . One or more filters identify limits on the metric data that is visualized. For example a user may not be interested in the geographic locations of users when displaying reach data and provides one or more filters to remove the geographic locations of users. Based on the visualization request the metric data module retrieves one or more metrics from metric analysis module and formats the retrieved metric based on the visualization request parameters. For example metric data module filters the raw data from the retrieved metric based on parameters in the visualization request. Generated metric data is communicated to the web server for communication to the device from which the visualization request was received.

If a social networking system user posts a derivative of a previously posted content item in some embodiments the metric data module provides metric data associated with the content item and with the derivative of the content item. For example the metric data module may communicate metric data to a device so that the user associated with the device views interactions with the content item by social networking system after a derivative of the content item is posted but has limited visibility to interactions with the content item prior to posting of the derivative of the content item As another example the provided metric data allows a user of the device to view interactions with the content item before and after posting of a derivative of the content item.

The device receives a request to post the content or re post a content item to the social networking system allowing social networking system users to access the content and sends the content to the social networking system for posting as a content item. For example device receives the request to post the content and sends the content to post as a content item via a local application or a browser that interfaces with the social networking system . In some embodiments the user specifies a tracking property associated with the content item to cause the social networking system to generate tracking data for the content item. In such cases the tracking property may be set when the content is posted or after the content has been posted. Alternatively the social networking system generates tracking data when the content is received by the social networking system . In cases where the user is re posting a content item associated with a different user the device sends a pointer to the posted content item or the posted content item to the social networking system .

After the content item is presented via the social networking system the device receives a request to visualize the reach of the posted content item. For example the user accesses the social networking system and selects a reach tracking option associated with a particular content item. The device sends a visualization request to the social networking system . As discussed above in conjunction with the visualization request includes one or more parameters. The social networking system determines the reach data as further described in conjunction with and and communicates the reach data to the device .

The device receives the reach data associated with the content item and or derivatives thereof from the social networking system and presents the reach data to the user. For example the reach data is presented using a default data graph format. In one embodiment the device receives a format preference for modifying display of the reach data. As discussed above in conjunction with the reach data may include multiple aspects for display. For example referring to a user selects a soft button to change the action presented to the user via the device . Or the user may change the display of the reach data to a different type of data graph. The device then present the reach data to the user based on the received format preference. While is directed toward presenting reach data other metric data may be displayed using a similar process.

The social networking system creates label objects and edge objects tracking interactions with the content item and or derivatives of the content item by social networking system users. Creation of label objects and edge objects is further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 229 515 filed on Sep. 9 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In alternate embodiments the social networking system does not create label objects and or edge objects until a tracking property of the posted content item is set. For example the user selects the tracking property of the content item while posting the content.

As users presented with the posted content item interact with the content item the content item or communications associated with the content item are sent to users of the social networking system connected to the users presented with the posted content item. This allows the users initially viewing the content item to share the content item with other users or to notify other users to which they are connected of their interactions with the content item. Label objects tracking the communications associated with the content item and or tracking interactions with the content item by the users of the social networking system connected to the users initially presented with the posted content item are created . This allows the social networking system to monitor interactions with the content item as social networking system users communicate about the content item or distribute the content item.

After presentation of the content item via the social networking system the social networking system receives a visualization request to visualize the reach of the posted content item. The visualization request may include one or more parameters as discussed above in conjunction with . The visualization request may identify visualization of the reach of the posted content item or may identify visualization of other metrics such as virality engagement or other suitable metric.

Label objects and edge objects associated with the content item and derivatives of the content item are retrieved from the edge store and from the label store . Using the retrieved label objects and edge objects the social networking system determines a reach metric as further described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 229 515 filed on Sep. 9 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. For example users performing actions involving a content item are identified from label objects associated with the content item and data from the edge store identifies connections between users performing actions involving the content item and the user posting the content item. In some embodiments the social networking system determines other metrics such as virality metrics engagement metrics conversion metrics location metrics and storyteller metrics from the retrieved label objects and edge objects.

From the determined reach metric and the visualization request the social networking system determines reach data. For example the social networking system determines reach data from a reach metric and one or more parameters specified by the visualization request. The generated reach data is provided to the device for presentation to the user as described above in conjunction with .

The social networking system may receive visualization requests from other users of the social networking system that have posted a derivative of the content item. The metric data provided to users posting a derivative of the content item may vary in different embodiments. For example metric data provided is provided to a device so that the user associated with the device views interactions with the derivative of the content item after the derivative of the content item is posted but has limited visibility to interactions with the content item prior to posting of the derivative of the content item As another example the provided metric data allows a user of the device to view interactions with the content item before and after posting of the derivative of the content item.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

