---

title: Techniques for estimating distance between members of a social network service
abstract: Techniques for estimating, in real time, the likelihood that any particular member of a social network service is a third degree connection of another member are described. Consistent with some embodiments, various member profile attributes of a member are used as a sort of proxy for determining the likelihood or probability that the member is a third degree connection of another member. For example, in some instances, the number of first-degree connections a member has is used to derive a probability score indicating the likelihood that the member is a third-degree connection of another member, such as a person performing a people-search. Once derived, the probability score for each member may be used in various applications, such as a people-search engine, to boost or increase a ranking score assigned to each search result and used to order the search results when presented to the user who has performed the search.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454750&OS=09454750&RS=09454750
owner: LINKEDIN CORPORATION
number: 09454750
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120718
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer program products for estimating in real time the likelihood that a first member of a social network service is a third degree connection of another member.

Online social network services provide users with a mechanism for defining and memorializing in a digital format their relationships with other people and other entities e.g. companies schools etc. . This digital representation of real world relationships is frequently referred to as a social graph and is typically implemented with a specialized database referred to as a graph database. A graph database is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. Accordingly when two members of a social network service establish a connection for example by mutually acknowledging their relationship nodes representing the two members will be connected via an edge indicating the existence of the particular relationship between the two members.

As shown in the node representing the member with reference number has three first degree connections e.g. members represented by nodes A B and C sometimes referred to simply as friends or direct connections. Additionally the member represented by the node with reference number has nine second degree connections e.g. members represented by nodes A through or friends of friends. Based on this overly simplified example it becomes abundantly apparent that the number of people at each level increases dramatically. In real world examples it is not uncommon for a member to have thousands or even tens of thousands of third degree connections. Because of the large number of third degree connections it is costly and inefficient from a computing resources perspective to have an index stored in memory for the purpose of quickly identifying those members of a social network service who are third degree connections of a particular member. Consequently for various applications that benefit from information identifying a member s third degree connections e.g. such as a people search engine there exists a need for an efficient technique by which to identify members of a social network service who are or who are likely to be third degree connections of a particular member.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for estimating in real time the likelihood that any particular member of a social network service is a third degree connection of another member. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details and or with variations permutations and combinations of the various features and elements described herein.

Because members of a social network service generally have a large number of third degree connections identifying a member s third degree connections efficiently in real time with minimal delay is non trivial. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention involve a technique for estimating the likelihood that a particular member is a third degree connection of another member based primarily upon an analysis of certain attributes in a member s profile. For example for a particular social graph maintained by a social network service a study may be undertaken to identify the various member profile attributes that are the best indicators of the likelihood that a particular member will be a third degree connection of another member. In some instances a particular attribute will by itself be a good indicator. For instance with some embodiments the number of direct i.e. first degree connections or friends that a particular member has may be a good indicator for the likelihood that the member will be a third degree connection of another member. In other instances a comparison of member profile attributes is performed. For instance if two members share in common certain attributes e.g. geographic location email domain address job titles industry in which employed etc. the commonality in the attributes may be used as an indicator of likelihood that the two members are third degree connections.

With some embodiments the particular attribute or attributes that are used to estimate the distance between the members of the social network service are normalized to generate a probability score that represents a measure of likeliness that a particular member is a third degree connection of another member. Accordingly at least with some embodiments the closer a probability score assigned to a particular member is to the number one the more likely the member is a third degree connection of another member. Similarly at least with some embodiments the closer the probability score is to the number zero the more likely that the particular member is not a third degree connection of another member. Accordingly the probability score can be generated in real time and used as an estimate or measure of likeliness that two members are third degree connections. The probability scores can be used by any number of applications that require social graph information and in particular a people search engine.

A wide variety of applications leverage the social graph maintained by a social network service. One application in particular is a people search engine. As its name suggests a people search engine is a search engine that facilitates searching for people. Generally a people search engine operates by enabling a user e.g. a searcher to establish a search query by entering selecting or otherwise specifying various attributes or characteristics of a person and then processing the search query against member profile information and ultimately presenting a list of search results with each individual result providing the name and perhaps some additional information about a person having a member profile matching the search query in some way. To ensure that the most relevant search results are presented in the most prominent positions of the search results list e.g. typically at the top of the list the individual results may be assigned a ranking score or otherwise ranked or weighted based on various relevance criteria and then ordered based on each result s corresponding ranking score. In some embodiments the ranking score is or is at least based on a probability score as described above.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention information obtained via analyzing the social graph can be used to derive the weighting factors used in ranking the search results in order to position the most relevant results first. In particular the relationship that the searcher has to each member representing a search result may be used to derive weighting factors that affect the position of the search results in the search results page. For instance if a member is a first degree connection or direct connection or friend of the searcher it make sense to boost or otherwise positively influence the ranking score assigned to the member so that his or her member profile appears more prominently in the list of search results. Of course other factors other than the degree of connection between two members may also influence the overall ranking score that is used in ordering the search results. In any case to ensure that a search is processed efficiently various relationship information particularly first and or second degree connections for members may be readily accessible via a database stored in memory. However because the number of third degree connections for any particular searcher is likely to be great other techniques such as those described herein may be used to estimate the likelihood that a member is a third degree connection of another member e.g. the searcher . Although these techniques will find particular application in use with a people search engine any number of other applications that may benefit from information indicating or identifying third degree connections of a member of a social network service may benefit from the inventive subject matter described herein.

Consistent with some embodiments to approximate the distance between two members of the social network service various member profile attributes may be analyzed. For example with some embodiments the number or count of direct connections i.e. first degree connections that a particular member has may be used almost like a proxy to represent the likelihood that a member is a third degree connection of another member. In some instances the particular attribute or attributes that are used to derive the probability score representing the likelihood that a member is a third degree connection are stand alone or independent attributes such as the number of connections that a particular member has. In other instances the probability score may be based on the searcher and a particular member sharing in common a particular member attribute or attributes. For example when both the searcher and the member are employed in the same industry in some instances there is generally a greater likelihood that the two will be third degree connections. Similarly if the searcher and the member are both employed at the same company and therefore share in common the same email domain e.g. company.com there is likely a greater likelihood that the two are third degree connections. As described in greater detail below other profile attributes may also be used to derive the probability that two members are third degree connections.

With some embodiments the various member profile attributes that are used to estimate the distance between two members in general and predict whether two members are third degree connections in particular are selected based on some analysis of the collective member profile data and social graph. In particular various techniques including machine learning techniques may be used to identify the particular member profile attributes that are most effective for purposes of estimating the likelihood that any two members of a social network service are third degree connections. Furthermore with some embodiments an algorithm or formula that takes into consideration multiple member profile attributes may be used to estimate the distance between two members in general and establish a likelihood that two members are third degree connections in particular. With some embodiments different factors may be weighted more or less heavily in any particular calculation to derive the measure representing the probability that two members are third degree connections. Other advantages of the inventive subject matter will become readily apparent based on the description of the various figures that follows.

As shown in the front end consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices not shown may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including databases for storing data for various entities of the social graph including member profiles . Although not shown consistent with some embodiments the system may include additional databases for storing other entities such as company profiles educational institution profiles information concerning various online or offline groups as well as job listings. In addition the social graph data structure is implemented with a graph database which is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. Of course with various alternative embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored as part of a member s member profile for example in the database with reference number .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a user may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation or some other entity which may or may not be included in the social graph. With some embodiments various other types of relationships may exist between different entities represented in the social graph data .

The social network service may provide a broad range of applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such at least with some embodiments a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph. With some embodiments members of a social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. Accordingly the data for a group may be stored in database not shown . When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group will be reflected in the social graph data stored in the database not shown . With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Here again membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modelled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social network service. For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Of course other applications or services may be separately embodied in their own application server modules .

In addition to the various application server modules the application logic layer includes the search engine module . As illustrated in with some embodiments the search engine module is implemented as a service that operates in conjunction with various application server modules . For instance any number of individual application server modules can invoke the functionality of the search engine module . However with various alternative embodiments the search engine module may be implemented as its own application server module such that it operates as a stand alone application. With some embodiments the search engine module may include or have an associated publicly available application programming interface API that enables third party applications to invoke the functionality of the search engine module. With some embodiments the search engine module may be a people search engine and provide functionality to search for people only. Alternatively the search engine module may facilitate searching of any type of information entity that is maintained and used by the various applications of the social network system such as companies groups job listings etc.

As illustrated in the social network system includes social graph data stored in memory. For instance with some embodiments a portion of the total social graph data may be resident in memory to provide fast access to certain information such as information concerning the first and second degree connections between members of the social network service. In addition a real time distance estimator is shown. The distance estimator provides various functionality for estimating the distance between members of the social network service for example by deriving a probability score that indicates the probability or likelihood that two members are third degree connections.

Next at method operation a subset of the member profiles are determined to correspond with members who are not first degree or second degree connections of the searcher. For example with some embodiments an identifier for each member profile is used to identify using the social graph data stored in memory e.g. social graph data in the member profiles that correspond with members who are first and second degree connections of the searcher.

At method operation for each member profile that is not associated with a member who is a first or second degree connection of the searcher a score is generated and assigned to the member profile. The score represents a measure of likelihood e.g. a probability score in some instances that the member is a third degree connection of the searcher. Finally at method operation a list of members is presented to the searcher. The list of members is ordered based on a ranking algorithm that takes into consideration various ranking factors including whether a member is a first degree connection a second degree connection and the likelihood that a member is a third degree connection as indicated by the score generated at method operation . Accordingly the member profiles corresponding with members who are not first or second degree connections are presented in the list ordered based in part on the scores generated to represent the likelihood that a member is a third degree connection.

With some embodiments the order in which the method operations occur may differ from that illustrated in . In particular with some embodiments certain operations may occur in parallel or in an alternative order different from what is shown in . For example with some embodiments when a searcher performs a search the first and second degree connections of the searcher are retrieved in parallel with the processing of the search query such that as the member profiles that satisfy the query are identified a determination can be made as to whether the members corresponding with the member profiles are first or second degree connections of the searcher.

Although the examples presented herein describe the use of specific member profile attributes in estimating the distance between two members. Other member profile attributes not specifically described herein may be used. In particular information in a member s profile indicating their current company of employment could be compared against the company of employment of the searcher such that where there is a match the score assigned to the member is increased to reflect the greater likelihood that the two members are third degree connections. Members may specify various skills in their member profiles. These skills may be analysed and compared to estimate the likelihood that two members are third degree connections. Other member profile attributes might also be used.

The various operations of the example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software instructions or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific examples it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

