---

title: Monitoring service in a distributed platform
abstract: Techniques for enabling monitoring across one or more domains are provided. The techniques include identifying information technology resources across one or more domains, collecting information technology dependency information relating to the information technology resources identified across one or more domains, collecting monitoring data from the information technology resources identified across one or more domains, and using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring data into one or more pre-determined metrics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507684&OS=09507684&RS=09507684
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09507684
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 112 210 filed May 20 2011 incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to information technology and more particularly to monitoring services.

The emergence of information technology IT cloud environments with their resource virtualization dynamic allocation image technology brings with it a shift from the traditional static IT environment management towards management as a service for dynamic IT environments.

However challenges arise when trying to manage across IT cloud environments. For example a challenge exists in providing real time awareness of the dynamic IT environment changes given the IT cloud promise for scalability flexibility and seamless provisioning. Also a challenge exists in providing an end to end unified management across different domains from private to public and from local to remote while being efficient and cost effective.

Existing approaches for IT management include management via agents that cover a limited range of products agent less solution management which leverages native management application programming interfaces APIs as they are available for products when directly accessible and remote management that uses remote access and data collection techniques for static IT environments.

The existing approaches however include a number of shortcomings when trying to leverage the approaches across domains and in IT cloud environments. For example existing approaches monitor only a limited range of products require local connectivity cannot deal with dynamic IT environments or cross domains and cannot build an end to end e2e global view from partial monitoring results.

Principles and embodiments of the invention provide techniques for a monitoring service in a distributed platform.

An exemplary method which may be computer implemented for enabling monitoring across one or more domains according to one aspect of the invention can include steps of identifying information technology resources across one or more domains collecting information technology dependency information relating to the information technology resources identified across one or more domains collecting monitoring data from the information technology resources identified across one or more domains and using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring data into one or more pre determined metrics.

One or more embodiments of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of a computer product including a tangible computer readable storage medium with computer useable program code for performing the method steps indicated. Furthermore one or more embodiments of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

Yet further in another aspect one or more embodiments of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of means for carrying out one or more of the method steps described herein the means can include i hardware module s ii software module s or iii a combination of hardware and software modules any of i iii implement the specific techniques set forth herein and the software modules are stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or multiple such media .

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Principles of the invention include enabling monitoring as a service in a distributed platform. One or more embodiments of the invention include creating a monitoring service for providing required mechanisms to enable clients using the environment to enable services.

In one or more embodiments of the invention it can be assumed that services of a client may be hosted by a variety of domains. By way of example a compute domain a desktop domain and a storage domain together may be required to host an enterprise analytics service that Client A wants to host and provide to its customers. Note also that Client A can be interested for example in providing the monitoring of its service in a meaningful way but that none of the domains separately provide such a monitoring view.

In order to provide the monitoring view from a client vantage point one would likely need to collect monitoring information from each domain that is the compute desktop and storage domains individually and aggregate the collected information into the metrics that a client monitoring view wants. Such action may further require for example transforming individual metrics into a form that can be aggregated discovering unmeasured components and performing additional measurements or using predictive models to provide measures and combining these individual metrics into client metrics by using service dependency models.

In addition as each domain provider may dynamically update or change the service deployments for a variety of reasons the dependent components should be discovered and updated dynamically and the collection and aggregation process should be updated accordingly.

As such one or more embodiments of the invention include providing control over IT resources that lead to a systematic approach to unified remote IT management. Additionally the techniques described herein include generating rules necessary to align available data into meaningful measures as well providing management methodology for dynamic systems.

Accordingly and as detailed herein one or more embodiments of the invention can include the following steps. IT resources across multiple domains are identified including but not limited to private and public domains third party hosted static local etc. and IT dependency relating the identified IT resources is gathered. Also knowledge is acquired about how to capture monitoring data from for example products self managed IT entities for instance public domains third party managed environments etc. as is knowledge about how to leverage the monitoring data.

Further one or more embodiments of the invention include collecting monitoring data from environments that are static as well as dynamic across multiple dimensions such as for example a count of replicated IT resources in a cluster for instance go from 2 WAS to 30 WAS due to a load increase type of product providing a given functionality for instance go from Access database DB to DB2 due to a load increase etc. Additionally the collected monitoring data is adapted aggregated and or segregated to align heterogeneous metrics into meaningful measures. An aggregation process can be guided for example by an application dependency graph.

As illustrated in a service that a client wants to monitor may be composed from a set of cloud hosted applications possibly on a distributed set of cloud domains with each domain being controlled autonomously by a respective domain owner. In such a situation a client may require for example a monitoring service that can collect relevant information from each domain perform additional monitoring and stitch together disparate monitoring information into a meaningful set of monitoring information to present and meet the monitoring requirements of the client.

As noted herein there are several challenges in such a scenario. For example gathering information from each domain that may make it amenable to provide e2e monitoring information can prove challenging. Also the individual domains may not have the required level of information to connect these measured information pieces to provide the monitoring view that a client needs. Further as noted in existing approaches there is no framework to build such e2e views that spans across different domains and works where some information may be missing. One or more embodiments of the invention however overcome these challenges.

Component includes the customer s IT infrastructure located on the customer s premises which may include for example network devices servers middleware applications desktops storage communication devices etc. Additionally component is an IT compute cloud environment that provides to the customer additional IT infrastructure for example network devices servers middleware applications etc. . Also component is a desktop cloud environment that provides to the customer additional desktop services and component is a storage cloud environment that provides to the customer additional storage services.

Further in component is the IT cloud environment where the management service also referred to herein as MaaS is provided from to the customers. Component is the customer delivery portal that can include an enterprise dashboard IT dashboard historical reports events alerts recommendations etc. Component serves as the customer interface to the remote IT management tools and services. Also component represents the remote IT management tools and services.

Component includes but is not limited to the following functionality and processes. For example component can include the functionality of discovering and identifying the IT resources involved in a customer IT infrastructure including the local as well as the remote resources. Component functionality can also include gathering IT resource dependencies supporting the acquisition of knowledge regarding how to capture monitoring data and how to leverage the monitoring data and its meaning as well as deploying the necessary resources to enable monitoring and management of the customer s IT resources and collecting the monitoring data. Additionally component can also include the functionality of systematizing the noted acquired knowledge acquired to generate specific data processing rules such as but not limited to data aggregation segregation adjustments necessary to align the heterogeneous information collected from the various monitoring data providers IT resources agents management tools etc. in a meaningful way for incident notifications reporting etc.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the step of systematizing the acquired knowledge acquired to generate specific data processing rules can be facilitated by discovering the application service dependency graph that provides the run time dependent components for the service. Using such a graph one or more embodiments of the invention can include combining component wise monitored information into meaningful e2e monitoring information that a client monitoring view may require. Accordingly one or more embodiments of the invention include managing this dependency graph and using this to aggregate and translate individually monitored information into MaaS provided information to the aggregated view for clients.

Also in addition to the above descriptions component of can also include the functionality of adapting and updating the noted steps as the cloud dynamically adapts or changes the service deployments.

Step includes collecting information technology dependency information relating to the information technology resources identified across one or more domains. This step can be carried out for example using a service delivery agent module and or a management service module. Dependency information can include by way of example network and platform dependency information dependent servers and corresponding statistics etc.

Step includes collecting monitoring data from the information technology resources identified across one or more domains. This step can be carried out for example using a service delivery agent module and or a management service module. Monitoring data can include for example count of replicated information technology resources in a cluster type of product providing a given functionality dependency information amongst resources functionality components etc.

Step includes using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring data into one or more pre determined metrics. This step can be carried out for example using a management service module and or a customer delivery portal. Using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring data into pre determined metrics can include aggregating the monitoring data into metrics desired by a client monitoring view. Additionally using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring data can include using an application dependency graph to aggregate the monitoring data. Further using the dependency information to aggregate the monitoring includes transforming individual metrics into a form that can be aggregated.

Also one or more embodiments of the invention include performing one or more measurements on unmeasured components and or using a predictive model to provide one or more measurements on unmeasured components.

The techniques depicted in can also include using the aggregated monitoring data to facilitate unified remote information technology management. Additionally one or more embodiments of the invention include dynamically updating the collection and aggregation steps. Also the techniques depicted in can include collecting information pertaining to how to capture monitoring data collecting information pertaining to how to leverage the monitoring data as well as generating one or more rules to align the monitoring data into one or more aggregated measures.

The techniques depicted in can also as described herein include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each of the distinct software modules being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium. All the modules or any subset thereof can be on the same medium or each can be on a different medium for example. The modules can include any or all of the components shown in the figures. In one or more embodiments the modules include a service delivery agent module a management service module and a customer delivery portal module that can run for example on one or more hardware processors. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system as described above executing on the one or more hardware processors. Further a computer program product can include a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium with code adapted to be executed to carry out one or more method steps described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

Additionally the techniques depicted in can be implemented via a computer program product that can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code was downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. Also in one or more embodiments of the invention the computer program product can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code are downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium with the remote system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

One or more embodiments of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

One or more embodiments can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example one or more mechanisms for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and one or more mechanisms for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in one or more of the associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As noted aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon. Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Media block is a non limiting example. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module component segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that any of the methods described herein can include an additional step of providing a system comprising distinct software modules embodied on a computer readable storage medium the modules can include for example any or all of the components shown in . The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules and or sub modules of the system as described above executing on one or more hardware processors . Further a computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium with code adapted to be implemented to carry out one or more method steps described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry one or more appropriately programmed general purpose digital computers with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

At least one embodiment of the invention may provide one or more beneficial effects such as for example providing control over IT resources that lead to a systematic approach to unified remote IT management.

It will be appreciated and should be understood that the exemplary embodiments of the invention described above can be implemented in a number of different fashions. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the invention. Indeed although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art.

