---

title: Automated content and bookmark distribution
abstract: A method of submitting content on behalf of a client to multiple service providers includes the steps of receiving a request from a client to submit content to a plurality of service providers and processing the request utilizing a server. The step of processing includes the steps of retrieving client login information necessary to submit the content to the plurality of service providers, logging on to the service providers using the client login information, if necessary, and submitting the content to the plurality of service providers through a client device. The steps of processing, retrieving, logging on, and submitting are performed automatically by the server after the request is received without additional input from the client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08359352&OS=08359352&RS=08359352
owner: Onlywire, LLC
number: 08359352
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120112
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 649 668 filed Dec. 30 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to content distribution by publishers or end users to service providers and more particularly to automated content distribution to multiple service providers through a single user interface.

Publishers such as bloggers writers website owners and developers business owners or other creators or distributors of content are constantly looking for ways to increase traffic to their content and drive more users to purchase or consume their products or services. Such content may be hosted on the publisher s website for example and may include a piece of information such as a URL notes status update blog post article document image video or other media. It is well known and documented extensively that backlinks e.g. hyperlinks or referrals to the publisher s content are the root driver for the amount of traffic directed to a website and are crucial for optimal search engine placement and click through to the website. For this reason publishers trying to drive traffic to their websites spend a great deal of time distributing the content using a manual re keying process to submit content to each of a plurality of target services or service providers e.g. social or business networks such as Facebook LinkedIn Twitter etc. bookmark aggregation services such as Del.icio.us email providers instant message services blogs websites and other community or information portals where publishers submit content. This manual re keying process is time consuming costly and inefficient.

Another well known method to increase traffic and backlinks to a website is to provide website visitors the ability to bookmark and share the content with their friends and co workers. This method of bookmarking and sharing typically involves providing a hyperlink to an end user that they may email or bookmark to a single service e.g. a social network or email address. Publishers can build their own website button or tool to provide their end users with this bookmarking and sharing feature. However as with the submission of content by a publisher to multiple service providers prior bookmarking and sharing buttons or tools only allow a user to submit content to a single service at a time and require the user to manually re key the content submission for each of a plurality of target services.

In one example a method of submitting content on behalf of a client to multiple service providers includes the steps of receiving a request from a client to submit content to a plurality of service providers and processing the request utilizing a server. The step of processing includes the steps of retrieving client login information necessary to submit the content to the plurality of service providers logging on to the service providers using the client login information if necessary and submitting the content to the plurality of service providers through a client device. The steps of processing retrieving logging on and submitting are performed automatically by the server after the request is received without additional input from the client.

In another example a system for submitting content on behalf of a client to multiple service providers. The system includes means for receiving a request from a client to submit content to a plurality of service providers and means for retrieving client login information necessary to submit the content to the plurality of service providers. The system also includes means for logging on to the service providers using the client login information if necessary and means for submitting the content to the plurality of service providers through a client device wherein no additional input from the client is required to submit the content after the request is received.

In yet another example an apparatus for submitting content to multiple service providers includes a computer readable medium embodying a computer executable program. The computer executable program includes a first routine that submits a request to a server to submit content to a plurality of service providers a second routine that receives login information from the server and a third routine that routes the login information and the content to the service providers via a client device.

Referring to the system according to one embodiment is a distributed hardware and software application network that includes a central server client devices content distribution tools service providers and one or more processing consoles . The server can be any suitable combination of hardware e.g. a computer with processors memory network connections etc. and software stored on the server or otherwise executable by the server as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill. The various components of the system are configured to communicate to each other through any suitable wired or wireless network such as the Internet. Modifications to the system can be made without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure e.g. the central server and the processing console can be combined into a single unit and or the content distribution tools need not be integrated into the client devices.

In use a client e.g. publishers and end users submits a request to distribute content through a content distribution tool associated with a client device or the server . Examples of client devices include for example a PC or Mac computer or a mobile device. The content distribution tool provides the client with one click content submission capabilities and is responsible for communication between the server the client device and the service providers . In one embodiment the content distribution tools include a software application installed onto or otherwise executable through the client device . In some specific examples of content distribution tools include an application programming interface API A a web browser plugin B a bookmark and share button C and a smartphone application D. The request submitted by the client is routed to the server which processes the request and routes the submitted content through the client device to submit the content to the service providers without a separate re keying process by the client for each of the service providers. In one embodiment a visual indicator on the client device e.g. in the client s web browser informs the client that the content distribution tools are communicating with the service providers . There are numerous reasons for this client server model such as to ensure that all content publishing requests originate from the actual user who performed the submission. This reduces potential liability on the part of the owners and operators of the server who did not create the original content. Another reason for the client server model is to spread out the content submissions among multiple geographic locations thus spreading out the risk of denial by the service providers .

Referring more specifically to a client submits the request to distribute content to the server via one or more content distribution tools based on the client s technical capabilities and preferences. In one embodiment the content distribution tools are installed onto at least one client device that is located within the same physical network that the client utilizes to submit the request. The content distribution tools may be written in any programming language and can exist as a standalone application or as a web browser plugin e.g. the plugin B of . One of the benefits of utilizing the web browser plugin B is the ability for plugins to utilize pre existing network proxy servers that are typically employed in an enterprise IT environment. Such web browser plugins B can be made available for a number of different browsers e.g. Firefox and Internet Explorer.

The bookmark share button C is another content distribution tool that can be placed on a client s web pages to provide end users of the website with the same multi submission features that the publisher uses to submit content. For example an end user can use the bookmark share button C to share the content with multiple services e.g. social and professional networking sites and emails of their friends or co workers in a simultaneous and automated fashion. Providing this functionality to end users has an exponential impact on the number of backlinks provided to the client s website. The bookmark and share button C can be configured to function with any type of webpage as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill.

The API A allows clients to submit a request to distribute content to the server directly by transmitting a formatted HTTP query to the server. Such a formatted HTTP query can generally take on the form http serveraddress.com api add url address title wherein the query includes an address for the server a website for the content and a title of the content. However the HTTP query can take on other forms and include more or less information as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. HTTP authentication with a username password may be required when submitting requests via the API A. In other embodiments different data transfer formats such as JSON and XML can be used without departing from spirit of the present disclosure.

The mobile device or smartphone application D is a mobile version of the content distribution tool that is configured to run on smartphone devices e.g. the iPhone and Android devices. The smartphone application D provides clients with the ability to submit content manage postings and analyze performance all from a mobile device. The smartphone application D performs the same routing of communications between the server and the target services as described above. From the perspective of the server the publisher s mobile device looks just like any other client device that can be utilized for the routing of content distribution requests.

Referring now to the processing console many service providers employ a human verification mechanism e.g. Captcha before the content can be submitted. Typical human verification mechanisms limit automation of the content submission process by requiring a user to enter an onscreen password before the submission of the content is accepted. The password can be a series of any characters that is designed to be unreadable by a computer. The processing console provides a mechanism to submit the necessary passwords without requiring further input from the client as will be described in more detail hereinafter.

Next at a block the client installs any necessary software onto their client device to support the content distribution tools described hereinabove. The software can be accessible via the same website through which the client created the account. As discussed previously such software may include a browser plugin B or a bookmark share button C for example. In one embodiment the client can customize the appearance of the plugin B and the button C as would be apparent to one of skill in the art.

After the client has created an account and has installed any necessary content distribution tools the client is ready to submit a request to distribute content to one or more service providers . At a block the client submits such request using any of the content distribution tools described herein. The server processes the request and submits the content to the target service providers on behalf of the client at a block . In the present embodiment the server processes the request to identify the service providers and any client login information necessary to submit the content to the service providers . The server can also identify any human verification requests required to submit the content and submit responses to such requests as will be described in more detail hereinafter. In the present embodiment the server routes the content through the client device to the target service providers enters the necessary client login information and responds to any human verification requests to submit the content to the service providers. If no client login information and or human verification requests are required then the server can merely route the content to the service providers as would be apparent to one of skill in the art. The hardware and or software components of the server can be configured to perform some or all of the steps of processing the request identifying service providers identifying and retrieving login information identifying human verification requests routing content through the client device entering client login information and responding to human verification requests as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill.

Next control passes to a block and the server notifies the client via the content distribution tools email instant message invoices etc. when the submission process is complete and if there were any failures and what caused those failures e.g. incorrect login information and or incompatible content. The block may also report additional information to the client e.g. a number of overall submissions activity levels of sub accounts within a publisher pass fail statics human verification requests performed and analytics to monitor and track performance of the content submissions. Such analytics may include a number of backlinks that were created and how much increase in traffic is produced directly or indirectly from the submissions.

The present disclosure provides publishers with the ability to submit content e.g. web pages articles documents status updates and other forms of digital content to multiple service providers through a single user interface.

Numerous modifications to the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the foregoing description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is presented for the purpose of enabling those skilled in the art to make and use the disclosure and to teach the best mode of carrying out the same. The exclusive right to all modifications within the scope of this disclosure is reserved.

