---

title: Presenting items based on activity rates
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods may operate to monitor an activity level with respect to queries submitted to an online marketplace over a certain time period to calculate an activity rate, to determine that a predicted change in the activity rate has crossed a specified threshold rate, and to display a landing page identifying at least one of items or item groups associated with the queries on a display based on the determining.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595084&OS=08595084&RS=08595084
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08595084
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 001 283 filed on Dec. 11 2007 issuing as U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 357 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The ubiquitous presence of networked computers and the growing use of databases web logs and email has resulted in the accumulation of vast quantities of information. Many individual computer users now have access to this information via search engines and a bewildering array of web sites. Some of these sites provide the opportunity to purchase items via an online marketplace which may comprise an online auction environment an online retail or wholesale purchase environment or any other online environment where goods and or services are made available for purchase.

During the lifetime of an online marketplace a number of items are offered for sale. The interest in various items waxes and wanes over time so that it is not always apparent which items are popular at which times. That is a seller may offer items for sale but often has no way of knowing whether the items offered are popular at the time the offer to sell is made. When there is no substantial buying history associated with the items offered for sale the problem of determining popularity becomes even more difficult.

Some of the embodiments disclosed herein seek to address the challenge of detecting a level of interest as well as other problems encountered when processing data associated with the conduct of an online marketplace by introducing the concept of interest level monitoring and forecasting. Thus rather than intuitively sensing whether interest in a particular item is trending upward or downward objective criteria can be applied in a proactive fashion to determine the actual level of interest and thus the popularity of various items.

For example in some embodiments the frequency and content of online queries can be monitored. The term query as used herein may comprise one or more search terms a bid on a particular item or product completion of a Buy It Now BIN sale a question issued to the seller of an item viewing an item watching an item demographics related to a buyer viewing or making a bid on an item or any other action directly initiated by one or more buyers in an online marketplace. A query may also comprise an indirect action initiated as a result of buyer activity. An example of such indirect action might be a seller acting to place five additional identical items on sale in response to learning that the first item of the same type has been sold.

Queries may serve to indicate interest in a catalogue of products individual products groups of items or even individual items. In a simple implementation one might monitor the level of queries dealing with an individual item ten times a day. Increased interest would be indicated if for example it was determined that the number of queries in the first four hours of a given day was significantly higher than the average for the past two weeks.

Average levels of interest can be determined empirically. Query terms and associated activity for a selected marketplace can be recorded constantly periodically or aperiodically. Statistics regarding the queries can be developed such as how often they ve been issued how many items people look at as a result of those queries how many bids people make and how many purchases including immediate or BIN purchases are made as a result.

To reduce the amount of information recorded an initial interest threshold level such as a daily average level may be chosen such that information associated with queries or the content of the queries themselves are not retained unless the number of queries rises above that level e.g. ten per day or 100 per day . Once the number of queries over time reaches or exceeds this first threshold more detailed data may be recorded. When the number of queries passes a second higher threshold a merchandising threshold rate one might conclude that an appropriate level of interest is now present and additional action should be taken. For example a flag or other indication of heightened interest may be set and in response a cluster of items associated with the queries may be created perhaps for presentation to individuals making subsequent related queries.

For example assume that several queries are received that include the name of a famous personality in conjunction with one or more clothing items. If sufficient interest is indicated e.g. by receiving a specified number of subsequent queries over time that include the name of the personality subsequent queries that include the personality name even those that do not mention clothing items may result in the presentation of a cluster of clothing items that have been previously associated with the personality.

To determine whether sufficient interest exists in a topic then some merchandising threshold rate should be detected or observed. This implies receiving a selected number of queries over a specified time period. The time period or window should be large enough to detect a change among the number of marketplace queries and small enough to permit taking timely action based on spikes or temporary changes in popularity. In other words once the change in popularity is detected there should be sufficient time remaining to take advantage of the item s popularity.

Determining that the reverse situation exists may also be useful. That is when interest in an item begins to wane as detected by the number of queries over time falling below the merchandising threshold or some other threshold e.g. a reduced interest threshold the presentation of special offers or other merchandising operations associated with elevated interest levels may be halted. Alternative merchandising efforts may also be launched such as special promotional or clearance sales to bolster waning interest. If the number of queries over time falls still further perhaps below an average level or the initial interest threshold or some other threshold level then the process may return to searching for elevated interest in the future.

For example assume that an average number of queries for a particular item is determined to be 500 per day. Some embodiments might operate to record queries for any item that has more than an initial interest threshold rate averaging at least 100 queries per day e.g. the first or initial interest rate threshold and so queries for this item having an average of 500 queries per day would automatically be recorded.

Further assume that once the rate of queries reaches 1000 per day the second or merchandising threshold rate merchandising offers based on the content of the queries and associated items will be presented. This demonstrates the use of a threshold rate based on actual activity. Initial interest rate and merchandising thresholds may be fixed values e.g. 100 views per day or proportional to other activity e.g. when item views exceed the daily average by 25 . Thresholds may differ based on price points e.g. lower priced items may have a higher threshold for detecting interest and higher priced items may have a lower threshold . Group or global thresholds with respect to products groups of items categories and even an entire web site may also be set.

In some cases merchandising may be initiated based on an increasing level of activity that leads to the expectation or forecast of sufficient activity in the future that will surpass the merchandising threshold. Thus in the immediately preceding example if 500 queries are received within a four hour time period rather than over one day a forecast of 6 500 3000 queries might be made for one day which clearly exceeds the 1000 query per day merchandising threshold rate. In that case merchandising might begin after the fourth hour based on the rate of increase in interest or a forecast level of interest rather than the actual level of interest.

Another possibility for forecasting involves noting the patterns of activity throughout the day over the entire marketplace. For example if marketplace activity general peaks between 10 am and noon such that 25 of the daily query volume occurs in this two hour period and queries for a particular item approach 50 of the average daily number for that item during this same time period the forecast might be that the total number of queries received for that item by the end of that day will be double the average expected number. If this amount surpasses the merchandising threshold rate for that item then clustered presentations of items responsive to queries that occur after that time period during that day may be made. Many other possibilities for forecasting future query activity can be implemented including the described methods of tracking individual item query related data or tracking overall marketplace queries or queries related to sub groups of items in the marketplace and relating that activity to individual item query activity.

Forecast and measured elements may even be combined. For example a merchandising system may operate to allocate merchandising opportunities based on a measured level of increased interest for a selected group e.g. based on detected demographics coupled with some level of expected forecast revenue increase.

Merchandising engines or modules may operate to merchandise items in order of priority associated with their popularity score. For example if queries associated with a first brand of item increase by 20 and the queries associated with a second brand of item increase by 40 then twice as much time might be allotted to presenting merchandising promotions for the second brand as to the first. Thus when an item is flagged for achieving sufficient interest to merit merchandising the category of product type can be recorded as well as demographics of those making the query and other data. This data may be used to further target merchandising efforts.

For example it may be noted that queries are made by a certain age group or come from a certain area of the country and that the persons making those queries are typically interested in sporting goods. This information can be used to focus merchandising promotions on clusters of items that fall into the sporting goods category.

As a further example even queries related to items that do not fall into a standard category such as birds nests can be tracked. Assume there are several sellers of birds nests and each nest is slightly different. In this case there is no manufacturing product identification number each item is unique. Even so attributes might be associated with the items so that one is listed as having a brown colour and another as being black. One weighs less than 100 grams while another weighs over a kilogram etc.

Assume that the number of queries for birds nests increases and most of those making the queries are viewing seagull nests. Once the merchandising threshold is passed or is forecast to be passed then merchandising of birds nests and seagulls birds nests may be initiated. Or if 50 of the queries are for seagull nests and 25 of the queries are for eagle nests then presentations may be weighted in favour of seagull nests and then eagle nests. And even though a standard bird s nest category may not initially exist one can be created based on the flagged interest level and further subdivisions may be made based on attributes applied by sellers as well as other discriminating descriptive information.

A specific landing page may be constructed for display in response to queries made after the merchandising threshold level of interest has been reached. Thus if the queries in relation to a sports celebrity have passed the merchandising threshold instead of a generic web page that gives the results of the query a landing page might be displayed to present additional or specially tailored information. For example news stories links and or statistics regarding the sport celebrity s career may be shown.

In addition relationships between items and item groups with increased popularity and buyer demographics can be developed. Then related items and item groups may be advertised on any available page where appropriate viewer demographics are later detected e.g. on the same site where activity on the web pages is monitored to detect increased interest or even on another site having unrelated pages such as where the monitored web site might place advertising . Demographics may comprise personal attributes e.g. age location and or behavioral attributes e.g. previous purchase interest current interest . Increasing popularity may thus be used to initiate the capture of demographic information for individuals groups and communities as well as to present advertising to audiences having demographics that are related to those which have already been collected.

News sites on the Internet may be mined to secure additional information related to queries that reach sufficient levels of interest. Categories or items associated with some selected percentage or number of past queries can be highlighted on the landing page perhaps encouraging those making future queries to investigate those particular categories or items. This may have the result of helping to provide a more complete query result for those queries that were originally directed to a more general topic.

In various embodiments an activity level with respect to queries submitted to an online marketplace may be monitored over a certain time period to calculate an activity rate. It may be determined that a predicted change in the activity rate has crossed a specified threshold rate. A landing page identifying at least one of items or item groups associated with the queries may be displayed on a display based on the determining that the predicted change in the activity rate has crossed the specified threshold rate. More information regarding various embodiments that employ these mechanisms is provided below with respect to .

Here the activity level associated with a number of queries per hour made over three days can be observed. As the activity level changes over time beginning at point it can be seen that the initial interest threshold e.g. four queries per hour has been reached and is passed at the second point . However the number of queries drops below the initial interest threshold at the end of the first day at point .

After the beginning of the second day it can be seen that the activity level shows the number of queries has passed both the initial interest threshold as well as the merchandising threshold e.g. ten queries per hour . Later on in the second day the activity level has fallen below the merchandising threshold at point but rises above it again near the end of the second day at point . Thereafter the activity level on the third day remains above the merchandising threshold level as determined at points and in some embodiments a forecast may be made at point to the effect that the activity level will remain elevated above the merchandising threshold for the remainder of the third day .

Depending on the various parameters selected clusters of items or item groups associated with the queries may be presented in response to receiving related queries after detecting the elevated activity level noted at points and or . For example in some embodiments the level of interest shown at point may be considered too brief to engage in merchandising presentations. Only after the activity level shown at points and continuing on to point are detected might special merchandising presentations be engaged.

Categories of items such as Toys are only one of many types of classification mechanisms that can be used to classify queries or to associate with queries that are made for the purpose of clustering items for merchandising presentation. For example item attributes e.g. size color weight price seller rating etc. and the user s previous history of color choices can also be used. Thus a user making a query within the category of Clothes with a known preference for the size Large after a high level of interest has been detected with respect to Red clothing might be shown a landing page of large red shoes dresses and blouses before other items. The landing page presentation may thus be weighted to favor the history of a particular buyer or demographics associated with the buyer.

Tags are keywords that can be associated with a given object typically an item as another kind of classification e.g. expensive toys 60 s rock and roll etc. . While attributes are generally fixed e.g. size of a ring color of a sweater length of a pool table tags are more flexible. This is because tags may be assigned by a computer system in an automated fashion e.g. by analyzing keywords in an item description appropriate tags may be selected or by users. Thus in some embodiments tags can also be used as part of query tracking as well as associated with the cluster of items for display.

Users e.g. buyers sellers bidders employees neighborhood members etc. can even attach tags to themselves. Such self assigned tags may include hobbies favorite books movies and shows gender age friends trading partners. Users may also be associated with system assigned tags or tags arising out of profile information e.g. geographic locations feedback items purchased items sold saved items watched items searches price range of purchases time and or date of purchases etc. .

Controls may be presented to a user to further focus or limit the presentation. For example a visual slider control e.g. see slider in might be used to select sizes colors price ranges etc. In more complex embodiments sliders may be used to weight presentations so that for example sellers with a high trust rating are displayed ahead of sellers with a low trust rating. Items that have many purchases from a particular seller might be displayed before those sold by persons with less experience. In some embodiments the control which may be something other than a slider such as a knob or switch widget can be used to broaden or narrow the number of items seen on any particular level. Many other variations are possible.

Here the BROWSE menu option has been selected calling up the MONITORING BROWSER page . This selection permits the user to view information about monitored items and to enter parameters affecting item level of interest monitoring. Other menu options might include choosing to view an index of groups that can be monitored an index of items that can be monitored a summary of monitoring that is already in progress or items that have a forecast level of interest due to exceed the merchandising threshold rate before the end of the day. In another area of the GUI the user may be permitted to view previous monitoring efforts perhaps researching sampling window time period sizes previous periods of increased interest or how well current levels of interest correlate with prior forecasts .

In the individual item monitor area an item or query identification number may be assigned to monitor levels of interest in a particular category e.g. clothing and subcategory e.g. dresses . A sample size time period denoting an interval at which the number of queries will be periodically recorded may be specified. The initial interest threshold rate for recording query activity can be specified using an interest threshold and a time period e.g. queries over the interest time period of twelve hours . Once the parameters have been selected monitoring can be initiated using the BEGIN widget . The merchandising threshold rate e.g. shown here as 1000 queries within twelve hours can be specified as well. In some embodiments a message field in the GUI may be used to inform the user of items associated with query quantities that have exceeded the merchandising threshold rate that day etc.

In order not to overwhelm the reader with examples many other possibilities have not been shown. However it should be understood that many different classes of information can be used to determine the types of queries that are to be monitored when determining a level of interest. For example demographic information can be monitored. Keywords can be monitored. Indeed any of the information specified as part of a query can be selected for monitoring. Users can also specify as part of a monitoring request or intervene after monitoring begins to override prior monitoring requests to note for example that the interest level associated with certain keywords should always or never be monitored.

For example in this particular display a number of guitars are illustrated. The display may be in graphic form as shown with the images of acoustic guitars given priority over electric guitars . Moreover single neck guitars may be given priority over double neck guitars . The ordering may be based on the frequency of such designations in buyer queries seller listing titles or any number of data available to the system implementing the methods described herein.

In some embodiments the gallery may be continued on another page perhaps by selecting e.g. clicking on the widget . News items relating to the items displayed or a link to further information e.g. recent sales on similar items may be viewed by selecting the link . The visual slider control may be used to narrow or broaden the number of items displayed. Many other variations are possible as noted above.

The apparatus may include one or more processors coupled to a memory . Queries such as those made by a user with respect to various items forming part of an online marketplace may be received by the apparatus and stored in the memory and or processed by a combination of the processor and the query reception module . Thus many embodiments may be realized.

For example an apparatus to process changes in item or product popularity may comprise a query reception module to receive queries associated with gathering information regarding items for sale or to be sold in an online marketplace. The query reception module may comprise a full application a thin client or other software and or firmware to receive and process queries made within the context of an online marketplace

The apparatus may include one or more processors to monitor an activity level associated with the queries over a monitoring time period to provide an activity rate AR . The processor s may also be used to determine that the AR has crossed a merchandising threshold rate i.e. a merchandising threshold that specifies a number of queries made over a specific period of time such as 100 queries per day or 50 queries per hour .

The apparatus may include a display generation module to generate information related to displaying a cluster of items or item groups associated with the queries responsive to the processor s determining that the AR has crossed the merchandising threshold rate MTR . One or more of the processors and the query reception module may be included in a single server . The apparatus may include one or more memories to store a data structure e.g. a database that includes a variety of information including terms from the queries associated with item titles item descriptions item categories item attributes and or item tags. Information related to users such as information taken from user profiles may also be stored in the data structure .

The apparatus may include one or more user input devices perhaps used to generate the queries . The user input devices may comprise one or more of a voice recognizer a keyboard or keypad a touch screen or a mouse . The display and or the touch screen may be used to display one or more GUIs such as those shown in . The GUI may be used to arrange the presentation of a landing page in response to the determination that the monitored AR has exceeded or is forecast to exceed a selected MTR.

A system to process changes in item or product popularity may include one or more of the apparatus such as one or more terminals and one or more servers . The terminals may take the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a point of sale POS terminal and other devices that can be coupled to the servers via a network . Terminals may include one or more processors and memory . The network may comprise a wired network a wireless network a local area network LAN or a network of larger scope such as a global computer network e.g. the Internet . Thus the terminal may comprise a wireless terminal. Each of the servers and terminals may be used as a source of queries as well as a station where item monitoring parameters may be entered as shown in .

Therefore many embodiments may be realized. For example a system may comprise a network of servers and any one or more components of the terminal such as a query reception module one or more processors and a display generation module that operate as described previously. The system may thus include a client terminal that can be used to provide the queries and to display items item groups and other information. The query reception module may be divided between the client terminal and the network of servers . The network may comprise a global computer network such as the Internet.

Storage in conjunction with server operations may be accomplished using the memory the storage unit or both. One or more data structures including databases may be maintained by the server to track presentation factors used to weight the display of various information according to the content of the queries that have been received and or factors specified by users entering the queries.

For example an MTR can be set to indicate what level of activity or AR e.g. queries per unit time should prompt merchandising activity. An increased interest rate IIR threshold might be set so that when the IIR threshold is crossed by the AR information contained in queries i.e. query information or other information associated with queries e.g. user identity user profile information item catalog information item attributes tags etc. can be recorded. A reduced interest rate RIR threshold may also be set to halt information recording activity when the AR falls below the RIR. Other thresholds described above may also be established at this time.

Presentation factors PFs may be used to adjust the order of item presentation according to the order of query terms for example. PFs may also be used to determine how closely results of queries will be coupled to the level of interest. Therefore the method may include receiving a PF to weight the order of presentation of the items or item groups in clusters that are later presented to the user making a query. A visual slider control can be used to provide a PF in some embodiments.

The method may continue on to block with monitoring the activity level associated with queries made in an online marketplace over a monitoring time period to provide the AR. If it is determined that the AR has crossed the IIR then the method may include recording at least some of the queries associated with the AR when the activity rate is greater than IIR threshold. In this way queries and other information can be recorded when the AR rises above some minimum desired level. The method may include recording queries and other information continuously or non continuously such as at periodic intervals for selected time periods. Queries may also be recorded aperiodically or randomly.

The method may include determining whether the AR has crossed the MTR at block . If not the method may continue with further monitoring activity at block . If so then the method may go on to block with determining whether the AR has crossed the MTR in a first direction indicating increased interest. If not then the method may include determining that the AR has crossed the MTR in a second direction indicating decreased interest. In most cases traversing the MTR in a positive direction indicates increased interest while traversing the MTR in a negative direction indicates decreased interest e.g. see arrows and respectively shown in .

If decreased interest is indicated the method may continue to block with presenting a cluster of items or item groups in conjunction with decreased prices or decreased presentation frequency. If it is determined that interest has waned to the point that the AR has fallen below the RIR threshold at block the method may include terminating recording of queries and or other information at block .

If increased interest is indicated at block then the method may include presenting a cluster of items or item groups associated with the queries on a display. The activity of blocks and can occur in response to the MTR being crossed by the AR whether the AR has crossed the MTR in either a positive or negative direction. Thus in some embodiments the method may include monitoring the AR determining when sufficient interest occurs by detecting that the AR has crossed the MTR and then presenting a cluster of items or item groups when sufficient interest arises. Items may comprise goods or services and may be characterized as products when forming part of a catalog which is a collection of predefined products.

Presenting the cluster at block may include displaying a landing page including the cluster on a display in response to detecting a new query associated with prior queries that have been used to detect an increase in the level of interest . Thus each time a new related query is entered a focused or specialized landing page may be displayed.

For example the method may include presenting the cluster of items or item groups in conjunction with increased prices or increased presentation frequency when increased interest is indicated at block . That is increased interest may dictate the presentation of increased prices or increased presentation frequency and vice versa as indicated by blocks and .

The presentation of items at block may include presenting the cluster of items or item groups derived from viewing activity associated with the queries. In this way items can be selected for presentation based on what was actually viewed in conjunction with prior queries. For example demographic activity may be used as described above to initiate the addition of a presentation module to other web pages perhaps connected to the landing page or disconnected entirely from the entity presenting the landing page. Thus in response to detecting a new query associated with prior queries e.g. detecting demographics associated with current queries being related to demographics associated with prior queries the method may include displaying a landing page including a cluster of items or item groups on a display adding a merchandising module to another web site page or both.

The landing page may include a visual slider mechanism having a plurality of positions to indicate a selected relevance level associated with the presentation of visible elements e.g. see slider shown in . This enables users to control the level of image relevance during their browsing experience. It should be noted that a slider may comprise a visual representation of a conventional sliding mechanism such as a linear potentiometer or any other type of control that allows selection of multiple choices such as a visual representation of a knob a multi pole switch a dial etc. The slider can thus be used to control relevance during visual browsing e.g. by selecting a PF or simply to select one item from among several in a given level or group. Thus the method may include presenting a visual slider mechanism to select individual ones of the items or item groups that are presented. Still other embodiments may be realized.

For example some computer implemented methods of processing item or product popularity changes may begin at block with setting thresholds and or PFs as described with respect to block above. The method may continue on to monitoring one or more activity levels associated with the queries to provide one or more corresponding ARs as described with respect to block above.

Monitoring at either block or may comprise monitoring in association with a query term included in queries that are entered one or more of a number of queries a number of items viewed a number of item types viewed a number of groups viewed a number of group types viewed a number of bids a bid amount a number of items watched a type of item watched a number of immediate purchases made e.g. BIN purchases an amount associated with immediate purchases made a term included in a viewed item title a term included in a viewed item description associated demographics an item tag an item category or an item attribute among others.

The method may continue with detecting an actual change in the AR or determining a predicted change in the AR and then go on to determining that the actual change or the predicted change has crossed the MTR at one of blocks . If the MTR is not crossed or no prediction is made that the MTR is expected to be crossed then the method may go on to include further monitoring activity at block . Determining that the actual change or the predicted change has crossed the MTR may include for example determining that the MTR was crossed in one of a first direction to indicate increased interest or a second direction to indicate decreased interest.

Detecting that an actual change in the AR has occurred may include determining that the activity level measured over the monitoring time period has exceeded or fallen below an average activity level by a selected amount. That is detecting the amount of actual change usually involves measuring the present change in activity level per unit of time.

Determining that a predicted change in the AR has occurred may include forecasting that the activity level measured during a first time period will exceed or fall below an average activity level by a selected amount within a second time period subsequent to the first time period . That is determining that a predicted change in the AR has occurred may using a currently measured change in activity level per unit of time to forecast a predicted activity level in the future. Thus the method may also include forecasting a future AR based on the current AR and one or more of the time of day the day of the week a calendar period and or an overall site activity level.

Responsive to determining that the actual change or the predicted change has crossed the MTR the method may comprise displaying a landing page including items or item groups associated with the queries on a display and or adding a merchandising module to another web site page in conjunction with a merchandising promotion at block . Thus a landing page can be displayed in conjunction with a promotion when sufficient interest arises either as measured or predicted. Alternatively or in addition a merchandising module can be added to a related web page or some other web page that is unrelated to either the entity monitoring the queries or the web site through which queries are monitored.

A merchandising promotion may comprise a number of activities or presentation tactics including one or more of a sale a hyperlink to a current news story a hyperlink to an informational document an auction created responsive to receiving one or more queries a catalog of products a collection of items offers to previous buyers or offers to previously interested potential buyers. The items and item groups presented may be associated with queries using one or more of demographics item titles item descriptions item categories item attributes or item tags. That is items products and groups of items products can be matched to queries using titles descriptions categories attributes and or tags.

The methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order. Moreover various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in repetitive serial or parallel fashion. Information including parameters commands operands and other data can be sent and received in the form of one or more carrier waves.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions defined in the software program. Various programming languages may be employed to create one or more software programs designed to implement and perform the methods disclosed herein. The programs may be structured in an object orientated format using an object oriented language such as Java or C . Alternatively the programs can be structured in a procedure orientated format using a procedural language such as assembly or C. The software components may communicate using a number of mechanisms well known to those skilled in the art such as application program interfaces or interprocess communication techniques including remote procedure calls. The teachings of various embodiments are not limited to any particular programming language or environment.

Thus the methods described herein may be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. dedicated logic programmable logic firmware e.g. microcode etc. software e.g. algorithmic or relational programs run on a general purpose computer system or a dedicated machine or any combination of the above. It should be noted that the processing logic may reside in any of the modules described herein.

Therefore other embodiments may be realized including a machine readable medium e.g. the memories of encoded with instructions for directing a machine to perform operations comprising any of the methods described herein. For example some embodiments may include a machine readable medium encoded with instructions for directing a server or client terminal or computer to perform a variety of operations. Such operations may include any of the activities presented in conjunction with the methods described above. Various embodiments may specifically include a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform any of the activities recited by such methods.

The applications themselves are communicatively coupled e.g. via appropriate interfaces to each other and to various data sources so as to allow information to be passed between the applications or so as to allow the applications to share and access common data. The applications may furthermore access one or more databases via database servers e.g. database server of . Any one or all of the applications may serve as a source of queries thresholds presentation factors and associated information for processing query data according to the methods described herein. The applications may also serve as a source of determined user preferences and or expressed user preferences.

In some embodiments the applications may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list or publish information concerning goods or services for sale a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the applications may include a number of marketplace applications such as at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation applications allow users that transact business perhaps utilizing a networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. When for example a networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within a networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such reputations for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of networked systems to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system. For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties.

Marketplaces may be customized for specific geographic regions. Thus one version of the applications may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the applications may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The applications may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by a networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by a networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers.

Navigation of a networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via a networked system publication application . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within a networked system. Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications including the interest level detection and processing applications described herein.

In order to make listings available on a networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible marketplace applications may operate to include one or more imaging applications which users may use to upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application can also operate to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Listing creation applications allow sellers conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via a networked system and listing management applications allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications can assist sellers with activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within a networked system.

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of a networked system such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings on the networked system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging applications may utilize any number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via wired e.g. Ethernet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via a networked system. The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

A networked system itself or one or more users that transact business via the networked system may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and may be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

Turning specifically to the system an Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more commerce applications e.g. similar to or identical to the applications of and interest level detection and processing applications e.g. similar to or identical to the modules of . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases similar to or identical to the structure of such as registries that include links between individuals their profiles their behavior patterns user generated information queries thresholds and activity level forecasts.

Further while the system employs a client server architecture the various embodiments are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well be applied in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The various applications and may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client it will be appreciated may access the various applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the application programming interface API server . The programmatic client may for example comprise a browser module to enable a user to submit selections of items or queries perhaps performing batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based system . Client applications and support applications may perform similar or identical functions.

In some embodiments the machine may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may comprise a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory all of which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. liquid crystal displays LCD or cathode ray tube CRT . The display unit may be used to display a GUI according to the embodiments described with respect to . The computer system also may include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device which may comprise a wired and or wireless interface device.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies according to various embodiments. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include tangible media that include but are not limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media.

Certain applications or processes are described herein as including a number of modules or mechanisms. A module or a mechanism may be a unit of distinct functionality that can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Modules may also initiate communication with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

In conclusion it can be seen that various embodiments can operate to present a unique exploration experience to a user accessing large quantities of information. The embodiments disclosed can present clusters of items perhaps in conjunction with specially designed landing pages that contain information directly focused on the queries made by the user. This type of interface can be offered as an alternative to that available when more conventional keyword based searching mechanisms are used. Increased user satisfaction may result.

The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

