---

title: Systems and methods for dynamically valuating a gift card
abstract: A gift card that dynamically changes its value based on how it is used. For example, a gift card may have a different value in accordance with a merchant where the card is used, a merchant category, a product being purchased, a product manufacturer, etc. The gift card may operate within a traditional credit/debit card processing infrastructure, wherein the card processing infrastructure transmits the merchant details along with the authorization/approval request to a card processor and/or card issuer. The gift card may be authorized for a specific value for that merchant, the merchant category, product, etc. Thus, the gift card may have a value of $25 at a first store, but the same gift card may have a value of $50 at a second store in accordance with a predetermined value factors assigned to the stores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08602300&OS=08602300&RS=08602300
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08602300
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120501
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 364 002 filed Feb. 2 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 167 199 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Traditional gift cards are a one size fits all product. For example some gift cards are tied to a particular store and have a single value. Thus if a mom gives a 25 STARBUCKS gift card to her daughter then her daughter must spend the 25 at STARBUCKS. However if her daughter wanted to spend 25 at TARGET she would not be able to use the STARBUCKS gift card there.

Some gift cards available from major credit debit card issuers e.g. VISA MASTERCARD or AMERICAN EXPRESS may be used anywhere VISA MASTERCARD or AMERICAN EXPRESS are accepted. These gift cards however are also one size fits all products and because they may be used anywhere the daughter may purchase products and or services that are objectionable to the mom. For example if a mom gives the daughter a 25 VISA gift card her daughter may spend 25 on any product or service the daughter wishes.

However there is not a gift card that incentivizes the recipient to make acceptable choices. For example mom may like for her daughter to buy a book or school supplies using the gift card but her daughter may go to Whataburger with her friends to purchase burgers and fries. What is needed is a gift card that dynamically adjusts its value and that incentivizes the recipient to follow certain behaviors in order to obtain maximum value from the gift card.

A gift card that dynamically changes its value based on how it is used. For example a gift card may have a different value in accordance with a merchant where the card is used a merchant category a product being purchased a product manufacturer etc. The gift card may operate within a traditional credit debit card processing infrastructure wherein the card processing infrastructure transmits the merchant details along with the authorization approval request to a card processor and or card issuer. The gift card may be authorized for a specific value for that merchant the merchant category product etc. Thus the gift card may have a value of 25 at Starbucks but it may have a value of 50 at Best Buy in accordance with a predetermined value factor.

In some implementations the credit debit card processing infrastructure may be augmented or eliminated as the gift card may use Smart Card or near field effect NFE technology.

In some implementations the gift card value may increase value over time if unused. Thus if the gift card has a value of 25 and is unused in the current month it may be worth a greater amount in a next month.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Disclosed herein are implementations for providing a dynamic gift card that may change value based on how when or where the gift card is used. In a transaction between a buyer using the dynamic gift card and a merchant the merchant details may be communicated with the authorization approval request which may in turn authorize the gift card for a specific value for that merchant merchant category product or service time of purchase etc. For example if the purchaser presents a gift card for a purchase at STARBUCKS the card may have a value of 25. However using the same gift card if the purchaser presents the gift card for purchases at BEST BUY it may have a value 50. The gift card processing may be implemented within a credit card processing infrastructure or on the card itself using Smart Card or near field effect NFE technology. In some implementations the gift card may increase value over time if unused. Thus if the recipient of the card delays making purchases a 25 gift card this month may be worth a greater amount next month.

As shown in a customer may purchase a plurality of goods or services from a merchant in a conventional manner using e.g. a gift card. The gift card may be an AMERICAN EXPRESS VISA MASTERCARD branded gift card or other major credit debit card issuer s card such that it may be accepted at locations that accept AMERICAN EXPRESS VISA MASTERCARD credit and or debit cards. As part of the transaction between the customer and the merchant the customer may provide to a point of sale location e.g. a cashier a checkout counter etc. products or services for purchase. At the point of sale a merchant representative may scan a barcode read an RFID or key in information regarding the products or services for purchase. The customer may then present the gift card as a vehicle to pay for the products or services. The merchant may then process the gift card in a manner similar to a credit or debit card using a terminal apparatus. After the merchant has received an approval for the gift card purchase from the card issuer in the manner described below the merchant may complete the transaction with the customer .

With respect to processing of the gift card used for the purchased items or goods the merchant and the card issuer operate in a manner that may include a third party credit card processor . In some implementations the credit card processor may be the same entity as the card issuer . In order to receive payment for the purchased goods or services the merchant transmits a communication to the card issuer via the credit card processor as shown in . The merchant credit card processor and card issuer transmit digitally encoded data and other information between one another as part of the process. The communications link between the merchant credit card processor and card issuer preferably comprises a network link on which electronic signals can propagate.

The transaction information that is transmitted by the merchant to the card issuer may include a merchant identification number a billing descriptor a gift card number and the purchase amount. As discussed further below the billing descriptor may include an indication of the reference number associated with the customer s order the name of the merchant and a detailed product descriptor identifying the individual item or service. The gift card number may identify the type of card that can be used by the credit card processor to identify the appropriate card issuer to contact for authorization.

Upon receipt of the transaction information the card issuer may evaluate the gift card number to determine whether the received number is a valid number and thereafter determine whether the purchase price is within the pre established value of the gift card. If the purchase price is within the pre established value the card issuer then deducts the amount from the remaining value of the gift card and transmits an authorization number to the merchant via the credit card processor . The card issuer will then initiate the transfer of the purchase amount less a handling fee to the pre established merchant account at the merchant bank .

The CPU may be embodied as a single processor or a number of processors operating in parallel. The data storage device and or ROM are operable to store one or more instructions as discussed below in conjunction with which the CPU is operable to retrieve interpret and execute. The CPU preferably includes a control unit an arithmetic logic unit ALU and a CPU local memory storage device such as for example a stackable cache or a plurality of registers in a known manner. The control unit is operable to retrieve instructions from the data storage device or ROM . The ALU is operable to perform a plurality of operations needed to carry out instructions. The CPU local memory storage device is operable to provide high speed storage used for storing temporary results and control information.

As discussed further below in conjunction with respectively the data storage device may include a card database and a merchant database . The card database may store information regarding each gift card issued by the card issuer . The merchant database may store information about merchants value factors Vf and incentives associated with each gift card. Each database and the tables contained therein will be described in further detail below.

The communications port connects the card issuer to a network interface thereby linking the card issuer to the merchant via the credit card processor and to one or more merchant banks . In addition the communications port may optionally connect the card issuer to a printer which may be utilized among other things to print gift card balance statements etc. The communications port preferably includes multiple communication channels for simultaneously connecting the card issuer with multiple parties.

Regarding the illustrative processor numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

For example when purchases are made using card number 3715380194716680 at merchant ID or the card will have its full remaining value available because the associated Vf for these merchants is 1. However when this card is used at the merchants identified by merchant ID or it will have an available value that is only half of its remaining value because the value factor V associated with merchant IDs and is 2. As such for purchases made at merchant IDs and the card will have an associated unused value for that transaction that will be stored in the card table .

The incentive may represent a bonus amount associated with purchases at the merchant identify by the merchant ID . For example with respect to merchant purchases made their using card number 3715380194716680 may receive a 10 bonus amount. Therefore if a bearer presents card number 3715380194716680 having a remaining value of 25 the bearer may be able to use the card for purchases up to 27.50 because there is a 10 incentive associated with merchant for that card.

In some implementations the incentive amount may change over time. For example the incentive amount may increase over time to encourage the recipient to carefully consider purchases. In contrast the incentive amount my decrease over time to encourage quick use of the gift card at particular merchant or for purchases of particular products.

As shown in different merchant IDs may be associated with one or more card numbers . For merchant IDs not specifically associated with a card number a default value may be utilized having a default value factor and or incentive amount .

In some implementations the merchant database may not include card numbers . For example it may be that all cards issued by the card issuer that are used at merchants identified by the merchant IDs would be afforded the same value factor and incentive amount for each identified merchant. In such cases a single default value would apply for merchants not specifically identified by the merchant IDs .

At merchant factors may be determined. These may include defining one or more merchants and their respective value factors to be placed in the merchant database and associated with the card for which the value was set at 602. The merchant factors may be predetermined by the card issuer based on specific merchants merchant classifications categories product offerings etc. In some implementations the merchant factors may be based on the point of purchase of the gift card e.g. the gift card was purchased at a supermarket therefore all supermarkets have a favorable i.e. lower merchant factors . In some implementations the purchaser may log onto a web site to set the merchant factors for the gift card to set personal preferences.

At incentives may be applied. These may include defining incentive amounts in the merchant table for one or more merchants. The incentive amounts may be determined by the card issuer a manufacturer a merchant etc. The process ends and the operational flow continues at in .

After the card initialization process has been performed the gift card may be used by a recipient bearer for purchases. For example the gift card bearer may present the gift card to the merchant for processing as part of a transaction for goods and or services at . The customer may present the gift card to the merchant who in turn swipes the gift card using a magnetic card reader a smart card reader or using near field techniques in order to obtain information about the card for electronic processing. Alternatively or optionally the merchant may enter the gift card number at a terminal device.

At one or more of a merchant ID billing descriptor gift card number and a purchase amount may be communicated to the card processor. The merchant ID MID may be an alphanumeric indicator of a particular merchant. Optionally or additionally a terminal ID TID may be sent to the card processor . The billing descriptor may an indication of the goods and or services being purchased. For example it may be a UPC number a SKU number or some other unique identifier of the products and or goods being purchased. The card number may be the card number associated with the gift card being used by the customer . The purchase amount is the purchase price of the goods and or services being purchased by the customer from the merchant .

At the merchant ID the billing descriptor the card number and or the purchase amount may be communicated to the card issuer. This information is passed to the card issuer by the card processor for processing at . In some implementations the card processor and card issuer may be the same entity. The transaction may be processed at in accordance with the operational flow shown in .

Referencing at database operations are performed. For example the CPU may access the card database and or the merchant database to retrieve the remaining value of the gift card at as well as other information relevant to the transaction from the tables and .

At using information regarding the merchant the value factor and incentives associated with the merchant for the gift card may be retrieved the remaining value associated with the gift card may be adjusted to determine a new remaining value at . In some implementations the following expression may be used to determine the new remaining value of the card in view of the above identified parameters after a transaction 

At is determined if the remaining value is greater than zero. If so then the card issuer may authorize the transaction. If it is determined that the card value is not greater than zero then it is determined at if the card value is equal to zero. If so then the transaction is authorized the card may be canceled and any unused amount that is returned to the purchaser. If the card value is not equal to zero then at it is determined that the card value is less than zero. The transaction may be authorized up to the remaining balance on the card where after the card is canceled and any unused amount that is returned to the purchaser. It is noted that the unused amount may be disposed of in any way in accordance with disposition instructions. For example in addition to being returned to the purchaser it may be donated to charity deposited in a bank account used to offset other financial obligations e.g. loans etc.

Returning again to at the authorization from the process is communicate to the merchant. The authorization may be communicated from the card issuer to the card processor and then to the merchant as shown in .

At the transaction is completed. The customer may then take possession of the goods services. The process ends at .

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary implementations may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

