---

title: Permitting participant configurable view selection within a screen sharing session
abstract: A screen sharing session between a participating computer and a presenting computer can be established. A copy of a graphical user interface screen from the presenting computer can be presented within a display on the participating computer. A selection of the sub-portion of the copy of the graphical user interface screen from the participating computer can be received. Boundaries of the sub-portion can be determined and can be transmitted from the participating computer to the presenting computer. Responsive to receiving the boundaries, the remotely located computer can define the sub-portion of the graphical user interface screen of the presenting computer. The defined sub-portion of the graphical user interface screen can be conveyed over a network from the presenting computer to the participating computer without conveying data for other portions of the graphical user interface screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557878&OS=09557878&RS=09557878
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09557878
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120425
---
Web conferencing has become a staple of enterprise collaboration permitting exchange of ideas and resources over geographically distant locations. Web conferencing technologies often include capabilities that permit real time collaboration and remote log in functionality. For example desktop sharing can allow remote access and remote collaboration on a person s computer by a remote participant. Traditional web conferencing often can include a participant such as a presenter coordinating the conference. During conferences a presenter often can be required to determine what content is to be transmitted and presented to other participants. Participants of a conference can receive selected content and can have no control over what content is being transmitted to their display devices. Further when a participant views previously recorded presentations from a remote location the participant can have no control over what content of the presentation is being transmitted to their display devices. That is for cases in which multiple participants can access a web conference each participant can have the same information transmitted to their display devices.

Several drawbacks of this approach arbitrarily limit participant control of received and presented content. In many cases only certain portions of the presentation are relevant to a particular participant. That is relevant portions of content within a presentation can differ from one participant to another participant. Consequently each participant may be forced to view content that is relevant and content which can be irrelevant. This drawback can quickly become prevalent when a participant utilizes a display device that has a smaller screen. For example smaller display devices often shrink the shared content to adequately present the content within the screen. Consequently small display devices can make it difficult for a user to focus on the relevant shared content of the presentations and ignore the irrelevant content.

These drawbacks can exist even when the shared content is part of a single application. For example many applications for example some Integrated Development Environments IDEs include multiple windows presenting different information. Frequently during a presentation the relevant portion for a participant can be one window e.g. editor window but for another participant the relevant portion is another window of the same application e.g. outline view . The result can be a confusing experience for one or more participants attempting to focus on relevant content.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system an apparatus a computer program product and a method for permitting participant configurable view selection within a screen sharing session. A screen sharing session between a participating computer and a presenting computer can be established. A copy of a graphical user interface screen from the presenting computer can be presented within a display on the participating computer. A selection of the sub portion of the copy of the graphical user interface screen from the participating computer can be received. Boundaries of the sub portion can be determined and transmitted from the participating computer to the presenting computer. Responsive to receiving the boundaries the remotely located computer can define the sub portion of the graphical user interface screen of the presenting computer. The defined sub portion of the graphical user interface screen can be conveyed over a network from the presenting computer to the participating computer without conveying data for other portions of the graphical user interface screen.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a system an apparatus a computer program product and a method for permitting participant configurable view selection within a screen sharing session. An application can execute on a first computer which can present content on a first display of the first computer. A set of remotely located computers can each receive a sub portion of the content on the first display. The set of remotely located computers can include a second computer a third computer and or an nth number of computers. A second user specific sub portion of the content of the first display can be defined. Only the second user specific sub portion of the content of the first display can be sent from the first computer to the second computer meaning the non selected portion of the content is never conveyed from the first computer to the second computer. The second computer can display the second user specific sub portion of the content on a second display of the second computer. A third user specific sub portion of the content of the first display can be selected. The third user specific sub portion of the content of the first display can be sent from the first computer to the third computer meaning the non selected portion of the content is never conveyed from the first computer to the third computer. The third computer can display the third user specific sub portion of the content on a third display of the third computer.

Yet another aspect of the present invention can include a system an apparatus a computer program product and a method for permitting participant configurable view selection within a screen sharing session. A screen sharing engine can be configured to selectively convey a user specified portion of a shared content within a screen sharing session of a presenting computing device to a participating computing device. A data store can be able to persist a mapping and or a user preference. The mapping can associate a position and or a dimension of the portion. The user preference can be associated with the user specified portion.

The present disclosure is a solution for permitting participant configurable view selection within a screen sharing session. In the solution a presenter and a participant can engage in a screen sharing session e.g. desktop sharing . In the session the presenter can interact with a computing device to select content to be shared. For example the presenter can select an application on the presenter s laptop to share with the participant. The content can be presented on a computing device utilized by the participant e.g. participant s mobile phone . The participant can select content within the display of the different computing device which can be relevant. For example the participant can use a marquee tool to select a portion of the application which has value to the participant. The selected content can be transmitted to the different computing device associated with the participant for the remainder of the session. That is content not selected by the participant is not transmitted to the computing device associated with the participant.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a presenting computer or entirely on the presenting computer or server. In the latter scenario the presenting computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein presenting device can be a computing device able to share content within a screen sharing session . For example device can be a desktop computer executing a remote desktop service which can share an application e.g. Application A . Participating device can be a computing device able to receive content which can be presented within the session of desktop environment . For example device can be a mobile phone receiving an interactive view of content . Interaction with shared content within environment can affect content within desktop environment . For example session can be a desktop sharing session allowing a participant to interact with shared content via desktop environment . That is content within environment can be mirrored within environment enabling collaboration between a user acting as a presenter and a participant e.g. participant . For example a copy of the graphical user interface shared by presenting device can be displayed on participating device . It should be appreciated that interaction can occur in real time or near real time.

Presenting device and participating device can utilize a desktop environment to permit interaction with session and content . Desktop environment can be a graphical user interface for accessing configuring and modifying shared content . Environment can include a window manager an environment application programming interface API and the like. Environment can include but is not limited to JAVA based Desktop Environment K Desktop Environment KDE GNOME Xfce and the like. Environment can include content which can be shared as content . Shared content can include icons windows toolbars folders wallpapers desktop widgets and the like. For example shared content can be a file manager hierarchy view e.g. tree view .

In scenario shared content can be an application executing within environment . The application can include a window and or one or more frames e.g. frame presenting content. For example the application can be an integrated development environment IDE with a parent window a first frame presenting source code e.g. frame a second frame presenting compilation output e.g. frame and a third frame presenting project information. It should be appreciated that the scenario is not limited to multiple frames and can permit content selection with a single content frame.

During session participant can interact with selected content to select relevant content. For example participant can right click on Application A e.g. selected content to obtain options within a context menu for selecting content. Selected region can be created manually and or automatically. In one instance selection of content menu option can present a selection tool to manually create region . For example region can be created by dragging a mouse cursor diagonally from a start point to an end point to establish a rectangular region around content of interest. In another instance content selection can be rapidly selected by leveraging application segmentation. In the instance frame can be automatically determined from application hierarchy e.g. parent child window relationship . For example when context menu is presented within frame choosing selection option can automatically select the frame as selected content based on mouse focus.

In one embodiment selected region can be visually distinguished utilizing one or more traditional and or proprietary effects. For example region can be visually distinguished using a marquee effect e.g. marching ants . Visual distinction can include but is not limited to two dimensional graphical effects three dimensional graphical effects and the like. Visual distinction can include but is not limited to colorization effects fading effects shading effects highlighting effects and the like.

In one instance the selected region dimension and position can be determined upon selection creation. In the instance the selected region can correspond to coordinates of a Cartesian coordinate system. For example region can correspond to two coordinate pairs which form a rectangle having a top left hand coordinate position at x1 y1 and bottom right hand coordinate position at x2 y2 . Selected region information can be conveyed to presenting device to enable selected content to be transmitted. Device can process region information to determine selected content . For example a mapping of selected region within desktop environment based on selected region can be created to enable selected content to be determined. Selected content can be communicated to device for the remainder of the session . For example a sub portion of a graphical user interface shared by presenting device can be displayed on participating device . That is content not selected e.g. frame is not transmitted to the device . It should be appreciated that this functionality of the disclosure e.g. not transmitting non selected content is different from existing shared screen session capabilities.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrated purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that presenting device and participating device can be proximately or remotely located to each other. It should be appreciated that selected content can be chosen utilizing traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance selected content can be picked using a magic wand selection tool a lasso selection tool and the like. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can function within environments which support multiple desktops. In one instance when desktop environment changes from a desktop displaying content to a different desktop displaying different content content can persist within environment . In another instance when desktop environment changes from a desktop displaying content to a different desktop displaying different content an appropriate selected content for the different desktop can be displayed within environment .

In one instance desktop environment and or environment type can be a two dimensional desktop environment three dimensional desktop environment and the like. It should be appreciated that the disclosure can support any combination of desktop type. For example the disclosure can support content selection between a three dimensional environment and a two dimensional desktop environment . Content selection within three dimensional environments can be achieved utilizing traditional and or proprietary selection mechanisms.

In step a screen sharing session can be initiated. The session can be initiated in a traditional and or proprietary manner. For example the screen sharing session can be initiated via an email invitation. In step a participating device can be identified and the content can be presented. The participating device can be automatically and or manually identified. In step a participant associated with the participating device can be prompted to select relevant content. In one instance the participant can be prompted via a pop up dialog. In the instance the pop up dialog can present one or more tools which can be utilized by the participant to select content. In step the participant specified content can be selected. In step the selected content information can be communicated to the presenting device. In step a mapping can be created for the selected content. In step the mapping can be utilized to determine selected content. In one instance the mapping can determine a screen area of the presenting device corresponding to a selected region e.g. participant selected content of a participating device.

In step the selected content can be conveyed to the participating device. The selected content can be conveyed in a traditional and or proprietary manner. In step the participant selected content can be displayed upon the participating device. In step if another participating device is present in the session the method can return to step else continue to step . In step if the session termination is received the method can continue to step else continue to step . In step the selected content can be optionally refreshed. In step the session can be terminated. In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Method can be performed in real time or near real time. Method can be performed in serial or in parallel. It should be appreciated that method can be a functionality of an application programming interface API . Steps can be optionally performed for each participating device within the shared screen session.

Collaboration server can be a hardware software entity able to provide function for assisting participants of a screen sharing session to achieve a common task. Server functionality can include but is not limited to session security session authentication session encryption session network throughput load balancing and the like. Server can include but is not limited to screen sharing engine screen sharing session application interface data store and the like. In one embodiment server can be an IBM LOTUS SAMETIME server.

Screen sharing engine can be a hardware software element for permitting real time collaboration between one or more computing devices . It should be appreciated that real time collaboration functionality can include remote login capabilities. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to content selection session initiation session maintenance session termination and the like. Engine can include but is not limited to selection manager transmission component sharing handler settings and the like. In one embodiment engine can be a functionality of IBM LOTUS SAMETIME software. For example engine can be a functionality of IBM LOTUS SAMETIME client.

Selection manager can be a hardware software component for enabling content selection within application from device . Selection manager functionality can include graphical user interface rendering e.g. visual selection indicators toolbar presentation e.g. selection toolbar and the like. In one instance selection manager can permit additive and subtractive selection of content . For example a region can be dynamically grown by a participant when the participant draws a new region within application . In one configuration of the instance region can be manipulated utilizing traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. For example region can be shrunk by an arbitrary number of pixels through a shrink region interface dialog. In one instance region can be specified using a traditional masking image editing functionality. For example a participant can graphically paint region with a mask selection tool. In one embodiment selection manager can permit saved selections to be persisted e.g. settings between sessions .

Transmission component can be a hardware software entity for selectively conveying participant specified content e.g. selected content . Component functionality can include but is not limited to selected content compression content ordering content verification e.g. checksum and the like. Component can support traditional and or proprietary communication protocols. Protocols can include but is not limited to Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP Remote Frame Buffer RFB protocol Session Initiation Protocol SIP and the like.

Sharing handler can be a hardware software component for managing content selection within session . Handler functionality can include but is not limited to mapping creation mapping maintenance mapping storage and the like. In one instance handler can be utilized to retrieve relevant mappings for each session. In the instance selected content can be determined based on participant credentials. In one embodiment handler can support location awareness computing device resource availability and the like.

Settings can be one or more options for establishing the behavior of system server and or engine . Settings can be manually and or automatically established. Settings can include but is not limited to selection manager options transmission component settings sharing handler options and the like. In one instance settings can be presented within interface permitting user configuration. For example an administrator can configure settings which can be presented within an administrative interface.

Screen sharing session can be a semi permanent interactive information interchange between two or more computing devices . Session can include but is not limited to a remote desktop session a desktop sharing session an application sharing session and the like. In one instance session can be a functionality of a web conferencing software. Session can include a multi chat session telephony session and the like. In one embodiment session can include multiple screen sharing sessions.

Application can be one or more programs permitting user interaction to perform a task. Application can include but is not limited to business software computer aided design software database software decision making software educational software image editing software industrial automation software spreadsheet software telecommunication software video editing software video game software word processing and the like. For example application can include multiple applications such as a web browser and a file manager. Application can include but is not limited to content settings and the like. In one instance application can execute within server device and the like.

Content can be a visual media associated with application . Content can include but is not limited to text content images video animation and the like. Content can include but is not limited to document content data content application content electronic service content web page content electronic mail message content and the like. Content can include user generated content automatically generated content and the like.

Selected content can be a visual media associated with content . Content can include but is not limited to text content images video animation and the like. Content can include but is not limited to document content data content application content electronic service content web page content electronic mail message content and the like. Selected content can include user generated content automatically generated content and the like.

Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation mapping settings and the like. Interface can be present within the context of an administrative interface a web browser application an integrated development environment IDE and the like. In one embodiment interface can be a screen of an IBM LOTUS SAMETIME server configuration interface. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. Interface can be communicatively linked to server .

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist mapping settings and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Mapping can be a dataset utilized to determine selected content within content . Mapping can include but is not limited to a device identifier an application identifier a selected content identifier a content identifier a participant identifier position information dimension information and the like. For example mapping can include an entry which can associate a selected content e.g. Content A with an application e.g. App A and a computing device e.g. Device A . In one instance mapping can be dynamically updated during session . In the instance mapping can permit selected content to change in real time based on participant requirements.

Computing device can be a software hardware element for executing session . Device can include but is not limited to user preferences application and the like. Hardware can include but is not limited to a processor a non volatile memory a volatile memory a bus and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile phone a mobile computing device a portable media player a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and the like.

User preferences can be one or more established settings associated with selected content application session and or content . Preferences can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance historic preferences can be utilized to build preferences . In one instance frequently used portions of an application can be employed to determine content preference. In the instance region can be automatically determined and selected content can be automatically conveyed.

Network can be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Virtual Private Network VPN and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment the disclosure can be leveraged to improve view capabilities of one or more collaborative tools. In the embodiment selective content sharing can be achieved within a streaming content a slideshow presentation a recording a whiteboard presentation and the like. In one instance engine can be a functionality of a screen sharing service. In one embodiment engine can be a functionality of a collaboration appliance device.

Interface can include but is not limited to options and or which can be participant configurable. Option can permit multiple content selection capabilities enabling highly customizable content selection. For example a participant can specify two regions for which content can be conveyed. Option can allow resolution specifications to be set for displaying selected content. In one instance option can include a default setting based on a participating device display resolution. In one embodiment option can include aspect ratio settings. In another instance option can permit the magnification of selected content by a participant specified factor. Option can permit presentation settings for selected content to be specified. In option position aspect ratio and the like can be locked. For example a window displaying selected content can be stickied e.g. pinned to a participant specified location.

In one embodiment when multiple regions are shared the shared content can be positionable and adjustable on the local display of the device receiving the content independent of the other participants. Positions of the sub portions can vary. For example in a wide angle display a participant can position the sub portions side by side in a left to right position but when the display device is rotated to be in a long view format the sub portions can be shifted either automatically or manually by the participant such that the sub portions are positioned in a top to bottom position. Alternatively the participant can choose to stack the sub portions over one another. That is how a participant positions the sub portion on their local display device is up to them and is independent of how other participants in the same session re position their sub portions.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Interface can be present in the context of a context menu drop down menu configuration interface screen and the like. In one instance interface can include screen sharing options region selection options e.g. visual options and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

