---

title: Pre-emplaced electrical vehicle restraint
abstract: A vehicle restraining system using an electrical impulse to disable the control system of a targeted vehicle including a roadway module placed at a location to engage the targeted vehicle for delivering the electrical impulse to the vehicle; a roadside module for generating the energy required for the electrical impulse and delivering the energy to the roadway module; and an operator interface module for operating the restraining system. In addition, a method of disabling the control system of a vehicle by delivering an electrical impulse to the vehicle includes the steps of charging a vehicle restraining system; setting the charged vehicle restraining system to disable the next encountered vehicle; detecting the next encountered vehicle, and delivering the electrical impulse to the targeted vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08439595&OS=08439595&RS=08439595
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08439595
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to vehicle restraining systems and more particularly to an electrical restraining system that disable selected vehicles.

There is a strong need for technology of stopping a vehicle without injury to the vehicle occupant or significant damage to the vehicle. A vehicle restraining system may be deployed at a security check point. With civilian insurgence and terror warfare becoming an increasing problem in many regions vehicle stopping technology is in demand by the military as well as law enforcement agencies.

U.S. Patent Application Publication 2006 0045618 discloses a vehicle restraining system which may employ nets to restrain the vehicle. The restraining system includes a container having a hinged door fixed on the truss assembly. The system also includes two spaced apart guides that extend from within the container to a portion of the truss assembly that contacts the ground. A gravitationally deployable restraining device stored in and deployed from the container includes sleeves clips and keepers to deploy the restraining device to snare a vehicle. The nets are susceptible to damage caused by the vehicle running into them. The restraining devices may need to be replaced after each use. In addition the system may cause injury to the occupants and damage to the vehicle.

Other alternative systems include barrier systems tire spike strips and electrical based stoppers such as high powered microwave based systems and direct injection systems. These devices have various disadvantages such as poor reusability failing to selectively target vehicles and their emplacement may severely impact normal traffic flow. It is thus desirable to develop a reusable easy to deploy inexpensive vehicle restraining system.

The present invention aims at developing a restraining system for non lethally stopping an unauthorized vehicle by disabling the vehicle s control electronics with high power electrical impulses.

Conventional vehicle checkpoint restraints yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a vehicle restraining system using an electrical impulse to disable a targeted vehicle. The system comprises a roadway module placed at a location to engage the targeted vehicle for delivering the electrical impulse to the vehicle a roadside module for generating the electrical impulse and an operator interface module for operating the restraining system.

In another aspect various exemplary embodiments provide a method for disabling a vehicle by delivering an electrical impulse to the vehicle comprising steps of charging a vehicle restraining system causing the charged vehicle restraining system to deliver the electrical impulse to the targeted vehicle.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other systems and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. Additionally the terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Furthermore although certain methods are described with reference to steps that are presented herein in a certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art the novel method is therefore not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. The terms comprising including having and constructed from can also be used interchangeably.

In one aspect the present invention is directed to a vehicle restraining system which employs an electrical impulse to disable a selected vehicle. The system comprises a roadway module placed at a location to engage the selected vehicle for delivering the electrical impulse to the selected vehicle a roadside module for generating the electrical impulse and an operator interface module for operating the restraining system.

The electrical impulse herein is defined as an electrical impulse with a voltage sufficiently high to at least temporarily disable the control electronics of a vehicle. A skilled person in the art may use simple experimentation to determine the necessary voltage for disabling a particular type of vehicle.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the restraining system according to the present invention is shown in an elevation view implemented at a vehicle checkpoint. This system can be referred to as a pre emplaced electric vehicle stopper PEVS system. A roadway tandem ramp containing a roadway barrier module therein may be located behind multiple modular concrete Jersey barriers which are designed to slow down incoming traffic. A first detail perspective view shows the tandem ramp that connects to a roadside module by a high voltage interface cable . A second detail perspective view shows an operator interface module located for example at a checkpoint . A control cable connects the roadside module to the operator interface module . An exemplary embodiment may employ three barriers arranged in a serpentine configuretion in to slow down a vehicle . More barriers may be used to induce the slowed traffic into a single lane such that the vehicle must pass directly over tandem ramp . More barriers may be disposed in between the tandem ramp and checkpoint to slow down or retrain the vehicle before checkpoint .

Personnel at checkpoint may operate the restraining system using the operator interface module preferably located sufficiently far away from tandem ramp to enable a sentry to operate the restraining system from a safe standoff distance. In one embodiment the operator interface module and tandem ramp may be 1000 feet or more apart. Exemplary embodiments therefore preferably use a lengthy control cable which may be for example an optical fiber.

The three primary modules the barrier module the roadside module and the operator interface module may be environmentally sealed to protect the subassemblies and components within. This provides the advantage that water and or dust will be prevented from fouling the system and causing damage to sensitive parts therein. The three primary modules and some of the subsystems within them may also be shielded from electromagnetic interference EMI . This is to prevent potential interference with the normal function of the device by the EMI from the various components or outside interference such as radio signals lightning or EMI emitting devices.

A. The Roadway Barrier Module Referring to the Jersey barriers limit traffic to a single lane thereby directing the vehicle to pass over the tandem ramp disposed between two parallel barriers . Referring to with perspective view the tandem ramp may include a modular speed bump comprising an approach ramp an exit ramp and a bridge there between to support and protect the barrier module . The weight of the vehicle is transferred to the bridge of the tandem ramp to prevent damage to the tandem ramp from passing traffic. The tandem ramp also serves to slow the vehicle so as to facilitate engagement of electrodes of the tandem ramp with the vehicle for delivery of the electrical impulse. The tandem ramp may be any suitable commercial off the shelf COTS speed bump structure or can be customized for a particular shape or size according to various embodiments.

The tandem ramp also includes two electrodes shown in in the retracted or rest position are located at the top of the tandem ramp . Electrodes can rise to an elevation position to physically contact the vehicle for delivering an electrical impulse to the vehicle when disposed over the tandem ramp . The control electronics of vehicle can be disabled by application of a sufficiently powerful electrical impulse. Various exemplary embodiments can disable the vehicle for at least a short period time preferably at least 2 to 5 minutes in this manner. After delivery of the electrical impulse the electrodes may be retracted to their rest position.

The internal components of one embodiment of the barrier module are shown in in a perspective view . The tandem ramp may contain a pulse charged high voltage resonator or oscillator which modulates the system waveform pneumatic connections for actuating electrodes an interface for the high voltage transmission line feed through connection and vehicle detection triggering hardware such as a pressure plate sensor used to determine when the vehicle is suitably positioned for delivery of the electrical impulse by the barrier module .

The barrier module is designed to deliver a high voltage electrical impulse generated by a high voltage oscillator which comprises the transmission line feed through connection at least one capacitor and a peaking switch . Any commercial capacitor capable of storing a sufficient quantity of charge to deliver the desired electrical impulse may be used. In an exemplary embodiment two capacitors shown in correspond to 1500 kV General Atomic peaking capacitors. The switch can switch on the capacitor which then delivers the electrical energy to electrodes . The switch may be a dry air peaking switch which may be custom designed for specific conditions if desired.

The electrodes have arms designed to contact with the targeted vehicle for delivering an electrical impulse thereto upon raising the electrodes . Referring to each electrode includes a rigid frame arm and a flexible spring steel face plate for contacting the targeted vehicle . Preferably electrodes are designed to maximize the contact surface between the electrodes and the vehicle to facilitate delivery of the electrical impulse with minimal electrical resistance. In exemplary embodiments the electrodes may be actuated by a pressurized two port air cylinder that also provides resistance to the impact between the electrodes and the vehicle when the electrodes are raised into its impulse delivery position. The two port air cylinder also facilitates remote actuation of electrodes via pressurization of either side of the cylinder . A linear dampener is optionally attached to the electrode to prevent rebound from the impact of the electrodes with the vehicle .

In another embodiment electrodes may be attached to a bus plate through a pillow bearing such as the dampener that connects electrodes to the arms for the oscillator of the barrier module . Optionally a cam attached to the grounded electrode by a shaft depresses the spring mounted piezoelectric sensor that can alternatively constitute a strip. In response the sensor produces voltages proportional to the speed of deflection of the electrodes that trigger the system. The sensor connects to an exterior connector for connecting cable with the roadside module . In exemplary embodiments the exterior connector constitutes a Bayonet Neill Concelman BNC connector and the cable is an RG 223 cable. shows additional details in the perspective views and of the relationship among the electrodes the sensor and the exterior connector .

B. The Roadside Module The primary function of the roadside module is to generate the energy required for the electrical impulse and transmit it to the barrier module upon receipt of a command from the operator interface module . Referring to a perspective view in the depicted roadside module comprises a battery module a primary high voltage power supply HVPS control electronics a pneumatic carbon fiber bottle an Optical Relay Subassembly ORS with a stop switch fiber optic connectors the high voltage transmission line a Marx generator for producing sparks and a power cutoff i.e. kill switch .

The outer enclosure of roadside module is environmentally sealed and shielded against electromagnetic interference EMI . The outer enclosure can be access restricted with exterior interfaces for only the high voltage output cable the control fiber optic cable and an access panel for changing the battery module and the pneumatic bottle . Several of the subsystems of the roadside module are preferably housed in separate thin walled EMI shielded enclosures to protect them against local interference from high power electronics.

The primary electrical power source or battery module of roadside module may be any charge storage device capable of withstanding the high average 4 kW and peak 25 kW powers drawn by the restraining system while in operation. The battery module is preferably as compact as possible while still maintaining the necessary functionality. In some embodiments traditional lithium ion batteries are preferred for their high energy density. Unfortunately lithium ion batteries are prone to gaseous electrolyte venting which leads to thermal runaway when high currents are drawn or when the cells are over or under charged.

Lithium iron phosphate LiFePO cells are preferable for various embodiments because they are more stable for operation with high peak power and are better able to withstand cell voltage abuse while maintaining a high energy density as compared with other stable rechargeable cells.

In one exemplary embodiment shown in in a perspective view the battery module serving as a power source can be a 133 V volt LiFePObattery pack consisting of forty 3.3 V 10 Ah amp hour cells . Such a battery pack generates peak currents in excess of 200 A to drive the restraining system and can maintain stable operation for hundreds of 1 second bursts on a single charge. The dimensions of the battery pack in this exemplary embodiment are 12 4.5 2.5 . Internally the battery pack in this exemplary embodiment is separated into four packs of ten cells each cell equipped with direct connections to individual cells for balanced charging and thermocouples to monitor the battery temperature. These four packs of batteries are connected in series and electrical power transmits via a connector interface .

The batteries of the primary power source s battery module are optionally connected through the connector interface that connects to a sub assembly denoted the ORS which manages the supply rails for the rest of the subsystems in the tandem ramp . The ORS is housed in an EMI shielded sub enclosure and has external interfaces for battery connection fiber optic lines and coaxial conductors that are used for connecting the supply rails to the rest of the system components.

The ORS facilitates normal operation of the prime power source . In one exemplary embodiment the 133 V potential from the LiFePObattery pack is passed through a DC to DC converter to provide a 24Vsupply to the system controller and the HVPS . The unregulated 133 V battery voltage from the battery module may also be passed to the HVPS through the high power relay which is controlled by a fiber optic latch the combination constituting the ORS . Such a design of the ORS may provide a key safety feature for the restraining system which enables the sentry at the operator interface module to cut off the supply voltage to the electronics remotely by turning off the restraining system through a kill switch . Loss of the 24 V converter also results in the opening of this high power ORS that can provide a key failsafe of the restraining system. In addition to these functions the ORS may also monitor the voltage and temperature of the HVPS relaying this information to the system controller through a fiber optic serial interface controlled by a field programmable gate array FPGA .

The HVPS power supply receives energy from the primary power source constituting the battery module . In exemplary embodiments the HVPS is resonant suitable for constant current and high voltage. The HVPS is preferably capable of enduring the harsh operating environment associated with operation of this restraining system such as the environment which may be encountered in connection with energy weapons. In addition the HVPS is preferably suitable for use with a lower voltage prime power source or battery module and the much higher associated currents.

Referring to the perspective view of the power supply in in an exemplary embodiment the HVPS utilizes a 300 A insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT half bridge module to drive a modified COTS high voltage transformer tank . The drive signals which are generated by the system controller are relayed to the HVPS through isolated fiber optic connections. Output voltage is monitored by a secondary side voltage divider which relays the signal to the system controller through a CPLD feedback circuit . An oil insulated protection circuit adjacent the tank protects the output rectifier from reflected transients and reverse voltages. Additionally a bleed off resistor in the protection circuit prevents the generator from maintaining a charge in the event of a misfire. This can also be a key safety feature for the high voltage side of the roadside module .

The system controller is a computer based control system. The system controller has multiple functions interfacing with the operator interface module controlling the HVPS monitoring voltage and temperature readouts of the prime power source as the battery module monitoring pneumatic pressures and controlling the pneumatic actuators. Additionally the system controller may optionally be capable of recording diagnostic logs and providing readouts on various system components. The system controller is housed in an EMI shielded enclosure to prevent interference from other components of roadside module . In some embodiments the EMI shielded enclosure may by optionally be made from aluminum and is provided with multiple fiber optic connectors one Bayonet Neill Concelman BNC input for power and two ports for connection of pressurized air lines.

In one exemplary embodiment the system controller is built around a Freescale ColdFire Microcontroller and a Spartan II FPGA. Such a system controller has ten fiber optic transmitters and six receivers which interface through the FPGA to the microcontroller. The system controller of this exemplary embodiment further comprises two pressure transducers in order to monitor the pneumatic systems. The system controller utilizes a super capacitor backup supply to enable turning off primary power source and switch into a suspended low power state.

The Marx generator in the roadside module is charged by the HVPS . The generator can when fired produce high voltage electrical impulse for charging the barrier module s oscillator . Any generator suitable for producing a high voltage electrical impulse may be used for without departing from the invention s scope. In one exemplary embodiment a commercially available Marx generator from Applied Physical Electronics LC can be used using fifteen capacitive stages charged to 40 kV to produce an open circuit output voltage of 600 kV. The Marx generator impedance is around 60 ohms and fires into a 230 kV 50 coaxial cable load with customized feed through interfaces on the generator and the oscillator s electrodes .

A pneumatic system preferably a dry air pneumatic system can be used in the restraining system to set breakdown voltages in the generator and roadside module peaking gap as well as to actuate electrodes from the rest position to the raised position. The system controller exercises some of control over various components through this pneumatic system. Optionally ventilation valves are used to prevent over pressurization of the pneumatic system components due to thermal expansion. Compact regulators are used to set the pressure of the generator and peaking gaps. A four port solenoid driven valve is used to pressurize and exhaust the two sides of the electrode actuation cylinders . In one exemplary embodiment a COTS 17 ft 4500 psig carbon fiber bottle typically used for paint ball systems is used as a dry air source for the pneumatic system. A three stage 4500 psig dry air compressor is used to charge the cylinders .

C. The Operator Interface Module The operator interface module is connected to roadside module using fiber optic control cable preferably of sufficient length for example length of 1000 feet or more to provide a suitable stand off distance between the operator interface module and the tandem ramp . One exemplary operator interface module is shown in perspective view in . Inside of the operator interface module there is a simple control board that manages the various interface indicators and user inputs. The simple control board also manages the serial communication with the system controller of roadside module . Operator interface module is preferably powered by its own battery such as a COTS rechargeable lithium ion battery.

Referring to the perspective view in of an exemplary embodiment the operator interface module has an on off toggle switch which also functions as a remote emergency stop for the high voltage components of the tandem ramp . The status indicator LED array provides feedback to the operator on system pressure and voltage levels. For example three LEDs in the status indicator array serve as a generalized error code that can provide more detailed information on system faults. A status check button sends requests for information and receives the information from the system sensors such as the vehicle sensor . The received information may be displayed on the status LED array . The arm button on the operator interface module enables the sentry to charge the capacitor and arm the system. The enable button enables the sentry to command the restraining system to engage the next encountered vehicle. An arm buzzer may be included to provide sentries with a non visual confirmation that the restraining system is armed. A hatch panel provides physical access to the operator interface module .

D. The High Voltage Interface The high voltage interface cable may be a special cable transmission line connecting the high voltage generator to the barrier module s oscillator . The cable must be suitable for transmitting high voltage power from the generator . In one exemplary embodiment an Okonite 230 kV rated x ray cable is used.

The connections at both ends of cable are preferably sealed and mated to the generator and barrier module s oscillator . A skilled artisan may modify the connecting terminals of the cable according to specific structural features of either the generator or the oscillator . On the side of the generator the cable mates with the output of the spark gap and seal the pressurized enclosure used to insulate the generator as shown in the perspective view of illustrating the cable wrapped by an outer braid and ending with a threaded connector a ground GND connection with strain relief an enclosure seal and a potted seal at a connector interface . To accomplish this the terminal of the cable may be sealed around an inner conductor using a silicone potting material shown by the potted seal that matches the dielectrical properties of the cable s insulation. The outer braid of the cable is sealed using a rubber boot typically used to seal COTS cable assemblies.

The side of the cable at the barrier module requires in an exemplary embodiment the entire assembly to be encapsulated in silicone potting to prevent arcing and flashover along the length of the cable . As shown in the perspective view of regarding the vacuum potting process to facilitate the cable being encapsulated. A field shaping flange supports a mold made from semi cylindrical portions held together by adjustable straps to position a cable dielectric and a blocking inductor . the field shaping flange is used to manage the transition point at the termination point of an outer conductor of the cable . The blocking inductor is integrated into the potted assembly to prevent output from the barrier module s oscillator from ringing back down the transmission line conduit formed by the cable .

At the terminus of the cable a fitting can be attached to plug into the internal terminal of the tandem ramp . The exemplary embodiment may use a customized cable which is produced from the custom mold which contains the terminus of the cable between the connector and the connector interface . Once removed from the mold the potted assembly may be shrink wrapped and a custom dust cap can be used to prevent damage to the assembly when not in operation.

The vehicle restraining system of the present invention may be deployed at vehicle security check points at locations such as Forward Operations Bases FOBs Continental United States CONUS and Outside the Continental United States OCONUS military bases and or Department of Justice facility locations as well as any other location desiring to control vehicular access.

The restraining system of the present invention has several advantages over the currently fielded vehicle stopping systems such as restraining nets. These advantages include lower cost per engagement a cost reduction by a factor of 50 to 100 times may be achievable a high degree of reusability the ability to selectively target vehicles that the emplacement does not interrupt normal traffic flow the ability to quickly remove affected vehicles and the effectiveness of the system is not tied to the momentum of the target.

The disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made by those sufficed in the art in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meanings of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of present PEVS invention.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

