---

title: Social network system with correlation of business results and relationships
abstract: A system that generates a social network and correlates business results within that social network receives, from an enterprise application, a business object, an associated system of record and corresponding enterprise members. The system generates a social object for the social network, where the social object corresponds to the business object. The system assigns social members to the social object and receives any changes to the business object. The system then correlates the change in the business object to each of the enterprise members and social members via the social object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619845&OS=09619845&RS=09619845
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09619845
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121217
---
One embodiment is directed generally to a networked computer system and in particular to a social network system that tracks relationships and business results.

A social network service or system or social network is an online service platform or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people who for example share interests activities backgrounds or real life connections. A social network service typically includes a representation of each user typically referred to as a user profile his her social links and a variety of additional services. Most social network services are web based and provide means for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. Social networking sites allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual networks.

The use of social network services in an enterprise business context is increasingly popular. Because social networks connect people at low cost they can be beneficial for entrepreneurs and small businesses looking to expand their contact bases. These networks often act as a customer relationship management tool for companies selling products and services. Companies can also use social networks for targeted advertising in the form of banners and text ads. Since businesses operate globally social networks can make it easier to keep in touch with contacts around the world.

One embodiment is a system that generates a social network and correlates business results within that social network. The system receives from an enterprise application a business object an associated system of record and corresponding enterprise members. The system generates a social object for the social network where the social object corresponds to the business object. The system assigns social members to the social object and receives any changes to the business object. The system then correlates the change in the business object to each of the enterprise members and social members via the social object.

One embodiment is a social network system that creates social objects that correspond to business objects from enterprise business applications. The relationships among members of an enterprise business application and among members of the corresponding social object and the relationships between all members is stored and analyzed and can be used to create an enterprise social graph . The social network further can determine and correlate the contribution of all members that are involved in achieving a business goal embodied within a business object with the relationships shown in the enterprise social graph.

Social network server system in conjunction with the other devices of substantially provides the functionality of a social network as disclosed in more detail below. Social network server is coupled to an enterprise application server . Enterprise application server in one embodiment is a server or servers that execute enterprise applications such as human resource HR applications customer relationship management CRM applications enterprise resource planning ERP applications etc. In one embodiment the enterprise applications on server are the E Business Suite or Fusion applications from Oracle Corp. Server can be directly coupled to server or can be coupled in any other way such as over a network. In addition the functionality of server can be included on server . Further server can be coupled to clients directly through a network or other means rather than through server . Server is generally not part of social network but provides the business objects and system of records that are used to generate social objects.

Computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by processor and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media and communication media. Communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

Processor is further coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse are further coupled to bus to enable a user to interface with system .

In one embodiment memory stores software modules that provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules include an operating system that provides operating system functionality for system . The modules further include a social network module for providing social network functionality and an enterprise social graph as disclosed in more detail below. System can be part of a larger system such as an ERP system if that functionality is not already provided by server of . Therefore system can include one or more additional functional modules to include the additional functionality. A database is coupled to bus to provide centralized storage for modules and and store data such as user profiles social objects conversations etc. Storage of these items can also be done remote from system .

In one embodiment social network of is a secure enterprise collaboration and social network software application and platform designed to facilitate social interactions within the enterprise environment as opposed to a consumer environment connecting people applications and business processes within and across businesses. Social network includes user profiles conversations and social objects .

A conversation in social network in one embodiment is a persistent shared stream of posts and comments i.e. messages including for example text rich text documents audio video programmatic content referred to as gadgets etc. A conversation has a defined membership ranging from Private i.e. membership of one self through N members consisting of individuals and or groups of individuals or sub groups to Public with visibility open across all members of social network . Posts within a conversation are viewed with new posts beneath old posts i.e. multiple posts can be read as text on a page in a book or vice versa or in any type of hierarchical format.

One embodiment generates social objects. All data from enterprise applications and business processes can potentially be socialized as a social object. Social objects contain records from a business application or process referred to as a system of record that are mapped as a visual and programmatic integration into social network via social network server . For example a sales opportunity from within a CRM enterprise application e.g. the name of a sales prospect and related data for the sales prospect such as the estimated probability that a sale will close the expected revenue of the sale etc. is integrated into social network as a social object. As a result social objects are explicitly coupled with conversations where the social object can be discussed in context and a record of that discussion can be retained for future viewing.

A social object may be generated for social network for any business object of an application that users may desire to collaborate on over social network . Examples of social objects include 1 an Opportunity social object from a CRM application 2 a Customer social object from a CRM application 3 a Service Request social object from a CRM application 4 a Business Process Shipment Escalation social object from a business process application 5 a Portal subject social object from a web portal application 6 a General Ledger Period Close social object from a financial ERP application 7 an Inventory Item social object from an inventory ERP application and 8 an Ordered Product social object from a distributed order orchestration application e.g. Fusion Distributed Order Orchestration DOO application from Oracle Corp. .

In one embodiment a conversation for social network can be created for any collaborative purpose including having a specific discussion making a decision or resolving a problem. A conversation can be related to a social object. The conversation can have membership which is identical a superset or a subset of the social object membership. For example a conversation can be created that is related to a sales opportunity social object in which the sales team works on preparing the presentation for the customer. A second related conversation can be created in which only the sales lead works with the legal team in reviewing contractual changes requested by the customer. Through related conversations multiple parallel threads of work between different constituent parties all related to the changing of state of an object within the system of record e.g. the opportunity changes from a state of Negotiation to a state of Won is achieved while maintaining the relationship understanding and contextual persistent of the collaboration that drove the changes. For example related conversations for an Opportunity social object may include a conversation for preparing a presentation with the suggested presentation content and best practice notes for delivery and a conversation for finalizing the contract with the appropriate draft contract for the deal size industry product and sales region with the associated legal team member added. A social object can also be related to another social object.

Social object further includes a wall that shows a history of all of the changes that have occurred on the social object. For example at the win probability is shown to have been updated by Julian Henderson from 50 to 60 on May 14 2012 at 11 44 a.m. At a new member Charles Dreyfus was given access to the social object on May 14 2012 at 11 43 a.m.

Social object further includes a list of all members of the social object at . The members who are currently online for that social object e.g. member are shown with a typical thumbnail picture but members who are currently offline e.g. member are shown as a grayed out thumbnail picture.

Social object further includes a list of all conversations related to social object at . A user can view one of the conversations by selecting the conversation. In one embodiment social object and new related conversations such as related conversations are created when the user is interacting with the external or third party enterprise system such as a CRM or ERP system executing on for example server of . For a given business object within a system of record of an enterprise application a social object and a customized set of related conversations with content can be created programmatically e.g. as a pre defined template to assist with the collaboration required to change the state of the system of record. In one embodiment an application programming interface API from the enterprise application to the social network application allows changes in the system of record to be communicated to the social network system and vice versa. A selectable list of other social objects that are related to social object can also be displayed.

In the example of tab is selected to generate a conversation. However because the object is not yet shared a message indicates that the object is not yet shared and a Share button is provided to share the object. Sharing the object causes a social object to be generated that corresponds to business object . An API to social network server and social network is used to generate the social object.

At social network module receives from an application a business object and associated system of record. In one embodiment the application is an enterprise application such as a CRM or ERP application. An example of a system of record for a business object is shown in section of . An API to social network server and social network of is used to receive the business object.

At social network module generates a social object that corresponds to the business object and that comprises the system of record. An example of a social object is social object of in which the system of record is shown in section .

At social network module assigns one or more members to the social object. An example of assigned members are members of social object of .

At social network module associates a wall to the social object. The wall displays changes to the system of record. An example of a wall is wall of social object of .

At the social object is displayed assuming it has been created with the system of record. For example as shown in social object is displayed within the system of record for data storage replacement opportunity.

At it is determined if there are any existing conversations for the social object. If no at a conversation is created at . The new conversation at is automatically related to the social object.

If conversations exist the conversation is selected at and the conversation is then related to the social object at .

The functionality of can be performed within an enterprise application as shown in or within social network . An API to social network server and social network is used to provide the integration of .

As disclosed social network allows a social object to be generated and one or more conversations can be related to the social object. The social object is a set of properties tied to a wall. These properties are directly connected to the object in the system of record and are updated either when they are changed in the system of record directly or through actions in social network . Changes made within social network are pushed back to the system of record to keep the object s properties current at all times. All changes can be logged on the wall and related conversations can easily be created to discuss specific issues concerning the social object. The social object can be exposed through any type of applications including the web client Outlook from Microsoft Corp. or other email applications standalone embeddable clients and all mobile clients.

Social network includes a set of predefined integration mechanisms that enable the user to define how and what data is retrieved from the system of record how to display that data in social network for example through social objects and who within social network has access to the data.

These predefined mechanisms are built to handle the most common application chores such as specifying membership lists in social network and property sensitivity i.e. not everyone should be able to see or update all properties without authorization and updating properties in both directions. For example when a social object property is updated in the system of record that change is published in social network based on the user permission rules that the user has defined.

Social objects are defined in social network as records within a system of record such as customer or service records from a CRM system. Social object records include metadata and a wall which includes membership lists and related conversations. Social objects expose system of record information to users who interact with and collaborate around the data through a user interface of social network .

The social objects provide a uniform and collaborative view of information from all integrated system of record. The social objects provide a wide range of services and capabilities in one embodiment including 

As an example of the functionality of a social object after a CRM Opportunity social object retrieves a stream of data input from the social object s wall the process may unfold as follows 

Communication also works in the other direction. When the Opportunity is updated from within social network the change is reflected in the system of record as well. Before the change is made social network checks to ensure that the user has the right to update the object from changing a simple property to changing the state of the object for example from Pending to Won . There is no need to go back into CRM to update key fields as social network automatically provides the updates.

A typical business object within an enterprise application such as business object of includes a set of members or a defined team that is put together to achieve a business goal. As an example is a screenshot showing an example business object for a CRM system of record. Business object is an Opportunity business object and includes information such as the name of the account a win probability and a status which in is listed as Open but can be revised within business object or from within a corresponding social object as discussed above to Won Lost etc. The team members are listed at by selecting the Opportunity Team tab . As shown in business object includes three team members Andrew Kershaw Fredric Daurelle and Charles Drewry. 

An enterprise graph can be generated to track relationships between individuals and business objects. The graph can be used to generate metrics that are useful in evaluating an individual s performance determining an individual s expertise and knowledge etc. For example for business object the enterprise graph will link all team members to the opportunity defined by the business object. If business object is ultimately won in terms of a successful sale i.e. the business goal of the business object is achieved an enterprise graph can correlate or attribute that sale to each of the team members. Through analysis of the relationships created and assigned by enterprise applications and processes the enterprise graph is generated. For example the human resources hierarchy lines of business and management teams are a set of relationships on which strength can be attributed. In addition the enterprise application defined teams such as the sales team and project team are recorded as shown in for access to specific objects within a system of record which creates another set of relationships.

Further through analysis of the collaborative interactions between individuals within social network or any collaboration data set such as an email corpus a social graph is calculable depicting the relationships connections and the strength of the tie between individuals. The social graph can be used to highlight individuals of value within an organization who for example are key conduits between separate lines of business referred to as Organizational Network Analysis . A social graph within social network is generated through the collaborative interactions within the conversations or social objects and by following individuals within the network.

The enterprise or social graphs can be considered a collaboration graph which is a graph modeling a social network where the vertices represent participants of that network usually individual people and where two distinct participants are joined by an edge whenever there is a collaborative relationship between them of a particular kind. Collaboration graphs are used to measure the closeness of collaborative relationships between the participants of the network.

Although enterprise graphs and social graphs are generally known enterprise graphs and social graphs and or the data underlying the enterprise graphs and social graphs are typically not linked and as a result relevant information is not easily available including linking changes in a business object to all relevant individuals including individuals linked in the enterprise graph and individuals linked in the corresponding social graph. For example an enterprise sales team that won an opportunity might have used the assistance of someone outside of the enterprise team such as a legal specialist and contacted this individual via email. However neither the enterprise graph or social graph will link or correlate this individual to the sales win or to any business driven metric.

Therefore one embodiment of social network combines an enterprise graph and a social graph into an enterprise social graph that can support the finding of expertise skills or an individual from a specific line of business and added to a specific conversation or social object within social network . Further the enterprise social graph can be used within the enterprise applications answering questions like which are the most shared presentations The enterprise social graph provides a single view of all connections for a business object including direct business object connections and connections via the corresponding social object in the form of a collaboration graph. Further embodiments may not generate an actual visual enterprise social graph instead the relationships correlations can be tracked internally by social network using generated data.

In order to generate the enterprise social graph and the data underlying the enterprise social graph a social object is created from the business object as discussed in conjunction with above. For example is a screenshot showing a social object that corresponds to business object of for the CRM system of record. Within social object more members can be added. For example at a new member Josh Lannin is added with the comment of I need your help on the presentation. It is your expertise. This new member will now be part of social object and included in the generated enterprise social graph even though he is not a member of the enterprise team for business object . As shown at social object includes five members while business object at of only includes three members. Additional members can be added to social object directly or through the generation of new related conversations. If business object is ultimately won Josh Lannin s expertise on the presentation can be determined from the enterprise social graph as a contribution reason for the win. Members can be part of business object and not social object and vice versa.

Therefore social network through the integration with systems of record business objects represented as social objects brings the enterprise defined network into the social graph. For example the sales team assigned within a CRM application is reflected in the social object within social network . The integration model of the social object allows the team defined within the system of record to be either expanded on the social object or for specific individuals or groups to be brought into the context through the related conversations. The resulting network of individuals represents the full set of contributors to the progression of the state of the object within the system of record.

For example the network created by the combination of the two graphs social and enterprise within social network includes the legal and business practice specialists who are not named members of the CRM defined team but are critical to the successful progression to close of a sales opportunity. The resulting enterprise social graph is calculable against the network within social network .

The results or value of content individuals or groups within the enterprise social graph can be accurately determined by correlation of the enterprise social graph with the underlying system of record object that created the initial context for the relationships. For example the legal specialist that is always part of the network associated with successful financial services deals greater than 2M can be correlated to this business object via membership in the corresponding social object. By correlating the measure of success within a system of record result e.g. the deal is won with the enterprise social graph generated by the network collaboration associated with the system of record data driven intelligent recommendations can be made either within enterprise applications or social network . For example using the enterprise social network a decision can be made that the above mentioned legal specialist should be part of a new sales team for the 2.5M deal with Big Bank .

However as discussed above in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the enterprise application relationships are combined with previously known social network relationships. Therefore referring to network the connection c of could be the result of 2 working on a sales opportunity team with 4 in a CRM system as reflected in a business object. Within social network the connections between individuals that work on the sales opportunity team are not restricted to those defined within the CRM system i.e. the named sales team but are extended to those outside of the CRM system within the wider enterprise through the integration of the corresponding social object that allows the broadening of the collaborative access to the opportunity.

Within the enterprise social network graph or diagram that combines the strength of the relationship or connections between nodes in accordance with embodiments of the present invention is valuable information. For example referring again to network connection a has a stronger relative relationship than b as indicated by the thicker line for connection a because 1 interacts more on the social network with 2 than 2 exchanges emails with 3 . Connection c is the strongest relative relationship for node 2 as both 2 and 4 are on the same CRM based sales opportunity team which generates the highest level of interaction frequency.

The relationships and their relative strengths produced with the combination of enterprise and social data provides valuable information that can be utilized for traditional network analysis. Embodiments allow for the allocation of a business application result to the network connection. The connection is a result of the full set or extended relationships derived by integrating business applications with the social applications using social objects and correlates the measurable achievement to the full set of relationships that are associated with a business result.

Referring to network connection d is visually represented as a darker denser color than connections a and b because the connections between 2 and 5 are based upon sales opportunities all of which were won within the forecast close date at the forecast value in the CRM system. Connection d is derived through the social object integration provided by social network connecting the social object the CRM application. In contrast connection c is a lighter color while thicker than connection d as the result of connections between 2 and 4 that are also based upon sales opportunities including some of which were won within the forecast date but were not within the forecast value some of which were won but were neither at the forecast value or within the forecast date and some which were lost.

Therefore the information provided by network in accordance to one embodiment allows a user to infer that while the connection between 2 and 4 may be strongest in terms of frequency the connection between 2 and 5 has a higher enterprise value as it is the result of more successful enterprise measured achievements. Specifically a recommendation based on connection d is a higher value recommendation to an individual and to their enterprise than connection c . The derived value form network can be generated by embodiments of the present invention because of the correlation of business measurable results with member relationships introduced through integrating enterprise applications with the social network using social objects.

One embodiment allows a user to drill down to each connection of the enterprise social graph to view the underlying data that forms the connection. illustrate a drilling down of connection d of in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Drilling down into connection d gives further insight into the nature of the connection and allows for a higher level of targeted recommendation based on the context in which that connection is being used for a recommendation.

Each connection strand is made up of multiple threads each of which can have a correlation with business results. Referring to the connection strand d between nodes 2 and 5 nodes can be any object such as a person or a piece of content has been formed as an aggregate of thread results attributed by the social object integration with enterprise applications including contribution from threads and . Thread is from a social relationship e.g. both nodes are members of the same social object thread is from a relationship via a human capital management HCM application thread is from a relationship via CRM application and thread is from a relationship via an ERP application. Each thread includes a numerical score e.g. 0.639 for HCM thread . In the example of the relatively high CRM score attributed to the connection vs. the relatively low ERP score would encourage a user to recommend node 5 e.g. the member corresponding to node 5 based on the connection d to node 2 in the context of a sales requirement i.e. CRM application but not in the context of a Quarter Close i.e. an ERP Financials application .

Embodiment allow a user to further drill down into a connection as shown in . The CRM strand within connection d has been formed as an aggregate of thread results attributed by the social object integration with the CRM sales application. The additional attribute data available through the social object integration allows a further refinement of the recommendation of 5 based on the connection d with 2 . For example the high score at i.e. 0.892 attributed to Financial Services on large value deals i.e. greater than 3M with the specific product i.e. Exalogic allows the recommendation to be made when in similar context whether directly matching or with an inferred similarity e.g. highly regulated industries but the recommendation is not valid for mid value retail sales context .

At a business object for a system of record of an enterprise application is received along with corresponding business object members. The business object includes one or more updatable business goals or metrics such as whether a sales opportunity was won and how much revenue was achieved.

At a social object corresponding to the business of record is generated as disclosed in conjunction with above.

At social object members are added to the social object such as by directly adding new members or through related conversations. The group of individuals the make up the subject object members is different than the group of individuals that make up the business object members. Specifically the social objects members include the business object members plus additional members.

At a corroboration type enterprise social network is generated using the business object members and the social object members. The enterprise social network graph in one embodiment is a collaboration graph where the vertices represent participants of that network and where two distinct participants are joined by an edge whenever there is a collaborative relationship between them of a particular kind. The data forming the graph is stored within social network and the graph may be generated visually on a user interface. In another embodiment a visual graph is not generated but the underlying data is generated and stored.

At the system of record is changed which results in an achievement of a business goal or any type of business object metric.

At an individual or object of the enterprise social network is correlated with the business object metric.

Therefore as disclosed the generation of the enterprise social network allows business driven metrics to be correlated with individuals beyond the members of the business object. Individuals that provide any type of collaboration through the corresponding social object can be identified and correlated with the metrics of the business object.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations of the disclosed embodiments are covered by the above teachings and within the purview of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the invention.

