---

title: Connecting network management systems
abstract: Various embodiments herein include at least one of systems, methods, and software to connect network and system management systems. Some such embodiments include a metric message connector that obtains network entity metric messages from a first network and system management system and communicates the obtained metric message to a second network and system management system. The metric message connector may transform network entity metric messages from an original form into a different form or format, such as a form or format having meaning with the second network and system management system. The network entity metric message may be Simple Network Management Protocol messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356826&OS=09356826&RS=09356826
owner: SAP SE
number: 09356826
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20121221
---
In today s networked computing environment a single organization may have many networks on which many network entities such as networked devices and systems are connected. While many network entity monitoring tools exist such tools need to be installed on each network to receive and monitor messages from devices on each respective network. As a result each network is monitored separately.

Further a network and system monitoring system may be able to receive and process messages from some but not all network system entities. However the organization may desire to use a single network and system monitoring system to monitor all network entity messages.

Various embodiments herein include at least one of systems methods and software to connect network and system management systems such as across disparate networks and systems on the same network that are not otherwise integrated. Some such embodiments include a metric message connector that obtains network entity metric messages from a first network and system management system that monitors a first network and communicates the obtained metric messages to a network and system management system on a second network. In other embodiments the metric message connector communicates network entity messages generated or received in one network and system management system to another network and system management system.

The metric messages are messages transmitted on a network by network entities or generated within one system and communicated to another. A network entity is generally any device or process that reports status with regard to metrics the network entity monitors with regard to its own state. In some embodiments network entities report their status in Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP messages that are broadcast on the network. Such a message broadcast by a network entity may for example be a network switch that monitors its network connection ports for operability connection speed and the like. Another network entity may be a printer that monitors its paper and toner levels. A further network entity may be a software system that monitors database latency times connectivity with other network entities an amount of storage space available to the software system and other metrics.

The first network and the second network may be separate networks divided by at least one firewall. However the first and second network may instead be separate logical networks where the second network and system monitoring system is unable to receive or process network entity metric messages that are received and processed by the first network and system monitoring system. In both such instances of networks may be separated by firewalls or logically separated networks the first network and system monitoring system is able to provide network entity metric messages to the second network and system monitoring system to allow monitoring of network entity metric messages of the first network through the second network and system management system. Through such embodiments as are described herein in detail with reference to the drawings monitoring of network entities on a plurality of networks may be performed via a single network and system management system.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the cope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore into to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

The network is a data network that can be logically considered a network that includes many elements connected thereto. Similarly the network is a data network that can be logically considered network which may include many other elements connected thereto.

The network includes a network and system management system that receives network entity metric messages broadcast across network by network entities E . As previously briefly discussed the network entities E are generally networked devices processes programs or other hardware or software elements that monitor their own state in view of metrics and broadcast messages reporting their current state. Such messages may be broadcast by the network entities E upon occurrence of an event such as a fault upon violation of a rule such as a configured service level agreement on a scheduled basis or for other reasons. These messages may be SNMP messages or other messages according to a standard or a proprietary definition. Regardless of the encoding of the messages the messages are broadcast by the network entities E on the network . When broadcast across the network the network entity E messages are received by the network and system management system .

The network and system management system is a system that consumes messages broadcast by network entities E on the network to which it is connected stores data representative of the messages provides management tools for administrators to track and handle network and network entity E conditions reported in and discovered from network entity messages and the like. Examples of the network and system management systems include Solution Manager available from SAP AG of Walldorf Germany Network Management Center available from Hewlett Packard Company of Palo Alto Calif. and Tivoli available from IBM Corporation of Armonk N.Y. Regardless of the actual network and system management system implemented it provides a great amount of functionality for monitoring and managing components of the network as whole.

The network also includes a message connector that operates with regard to metric messages broadcast by the network entities E on network . Metric messages broadcast by the network entities E on the network are received and stored by the network and system management system . The metric message connector obtains from the network and system management system either the actual metric messages as broadcast by the network entities E or data representative thereof. The metric message connector may retrieve the metric messages or the network and system management system may push the metric message to the metric message connector depending on the particular embodiment. In other embodiments some metric messages are pushed by the network and system management system to the metric message connector and others are retrieved by the metric message connector . The pushing and retrieving of metric messages in such embodiments may depend on configurations of the network and system management system and the metric message connector with regard to metric message type state information reflected in metric messages and network entities E from which the metric messages are received.

Regardless of how the metric messages are obtained the metric message connector may then process the metric messages. Such processing may include putting the metric messages in a suitable form for transport outside of a firewall of the network across another network such as the Internet and to the network and system management system of network which may include traversing a firewall of network . In some embodiments the processing of metric messages by the metric message connector may include generating an extensible markup language XML document that encapsulates data representative of one or more metric messages. In one embodiment including generation of an XML document the XML document may be the subject of a web service call made according to the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP of a web service provided by a interface of the network and system management system .

In other embodiments the interface is an interface to which metric message data may be transmitted by the metric message connector . The interface in such embodiments may then generate and broadcast SNMP messages on the network based on metric message data received from the metric message connector . Such SNMP messages may then be received by the network and system management system . In other embodiments the interface upon receipt of metric message data from the metric message connector may instead store data in the form of SNMP messages within a metric messages data store of the network and system management system where metric message data is stored when received and processed. Further detail regarding the processing of metric messages is provided below with regard to and .

The metric message connector may be a standalone software program that executes on a computer connected to the network . In other embodiments the metric message connector may be a module added on to another program or added to a network device that executes the metric message connector . In yet another embodiment the metric message connector is a hardware device including at least one network interface device at least one processor and at least memory device that stores instructions executable by the at least one processor to cause the hardware device to perform the functions of the metric message connector . In a further embodiment the metric message connector is a configurable process of the network and system management system .

The network and system management systems of the networks respectively may be identical network and system management systems. However in a typical embodiment the network and system management system is a distinct from the other network and system management systems by either version or in whole.

In some such embodiments as illustrated with regard to the system the metric message connector is configured to communicate certain network entity messages to the network and system management system of network and other network entity messages to the network and system management system of network . Such embodiments may be implemented for various reasons. For example one group within an organization may be responsible for monitoring and maintaining certain network entity types such as networking devices and another group may be responsible for monitoring and maintaining applications and application infrastructure. Each group in such an example utilizes a different instance of a network and system management system . The metric message connector is configurable to accommodate such needs and others. A particular configuration in some further embodiments is an ability to configure the metric message connector to utilize different formatting and to communicate different data based on different factors. Such factors may include the network and system management system to which a network entity message is to be communicated particular network entity messages received by the network and system management system and the like. The configuration of the metric message connector may include specifying different templates such as XML document templates of SNMP message types and formats from which communications to the network and system management systems are generated.

The system includes the network and system management system that receives network entity messages over a network such as a local area network LAN . The network entity messages in this embodiment are SNMP messages or data from which SNMP messages may be generated. The system also includes a metric message connector .

The metric message connector is typically present on the same network as the network and system management system such as the same LAN. However in some embodiments the metric message connector may be an object that provides metric message generation services to the network and system management system or another software system such as an application or enterprise class application such as an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP application. The metric message connector either receives the SNMP messages or data from which SNMP messages or other network entity messages can be generated when pushed by the network and system management system or when retrieved by a message processor of the metric message connector or other process thereof. The message processor processes the SNMP messages or data from which SNMP messages or other network entity messages can be generated in view of stored configuration settings and a document template such as an XML document template or another data structure including data defining a form for one or more message types.

The configuration settings may define SNMP messages or other data of interest that are to be processed and other SNMP messages or other data that are to be ignored. The configuration settings may further include data translation mappings that map SNMP message data or other data values to values of the network and system management system to which SNMP messages are to be transmitted. For example one such mapping may convert an SNMP message value CRITICAL to a number 9 which has an equivalent meaning within the network and system management system . Another such mapping may map message data from a particular system to a value identifying that particular system within the network and system management system . The configuration settings may farther identify the network and system management system as the destination to which the SNMP messages or other data from which SNMP messages can be generated are to be transmitted.

The XML document template may be a template adapted to a form that may be transmitted in a call of a web service of the network and system management system . For example the XML template may be a template for generation of an XML SOAP request. The XML template may include fields with defined placeholders that the message processor can search for in the XML template and replace with data of an SNMP message and any data translated according to the configuration settings .

The message processor may process one SNMP message at a time and generate an XML document or other data structure for each SNMP message or other data from which an SNMP message can be generated. In other embodiments the message processor may process several SNMP messages at a time to generate one XML document containing data of or representative of the several SNMP messages. Regardless of whether the XML document includes data of one or many SNMP messages the message processor forward the XML document to a transmission client such as the HTTP client transmit the XML document to the Network and system management system.

In another embodiment the message processor which processing messages other than SNMP messages such as proprietary metric messages received within the network and system management system may receive or retrieve data representative of the proprietary metric messages. The message processor may then generate a message in a form to be transmitted to the network and system management system according to at least the configuration settings . The message processor may further utilize one or more other message templates such as templates for generation of SNMP messages or API calls to an interface of the network and system management system other than a web service call. Regardless of the message type generated for transmission to the network and system management system the generated message may then be forwarded to a transmission client such as the HTTP client or other client depending on a protocol through which the particular message is to be transmitted.

The transmission client such as the HTTP operates to communicate the received message such as an XML document or other message which may be an XML SOAP request or API call to the network and system management system . In particular the HTTP client according to the example system operates to communicate the XML document to the network and system management system by making a web service call. The HTTP client in making the web service call establishes or utilizes an existing network connection as defined within stored connection settings . The connection settings may identify various connection parameters such as network ports to utilize Internet Protocol IP addresses firewall permissions and the like. The HTTP client utilizing such a defined connection then transmits the XML document to the web service . The transmission of the XML document may include a SOAP request. The web service in such embodiments upon receipt processes the XML document to provide the data contained therein to the network and system management system . In embodiments where the message to be transmitted is not an XML document the connections may be established and utilized in a similar manner although rather than making a web service call the call will be to an API or other data processing entity of the network and system management system of a network entity on a network to which the network and system management system is connected.

In some embodiments the HTTP client prior to transmitting the XML document or other message type to the network and system management system writes the XML document or other message type to a log . The log is generally a data storage device local to a network to which the metric message connector is connected. Upon successful transmission to the network and system management system the HTTP client may delete the XML document or other message from the log . However in some embodiments the XML document or other message may remain in the log indefinitely for a defined period i.e. a number of minutes hours or days and be purged by a garbage collection process.

In some embodiments the HTTP client in transmitting the XML document or other message to the network and system management system is performed across one or more firewalls or other network barriers. The HTTP client in transmitting via HTTP is able to traverse such firewalls . Other modes of communication messaging and delivery modes may be used in other embodiments to traverse such firewalls with data representative of the SNMP messages. For example some embodiments include an API call a file stored to a designated network storage location accessible by a process of the network and system management system data structure transmitted via a value added network or other message and message transmission scheme.

The example method includes receiving via a first network a metric message such as an SNMP message from a network entity and determining based on configuration data and data of the received metric message that the received metric message is to be forwarded to a network and system management system on a second network. In a typical embodiment the metric message received from a network entity is received indirectly via a network and system management system on the first network which is distinct from the network and system management system to which the method transmits the populated template described below.

In such embodiments when the received metric message is to be forwarded to the network and system management system on a second network the method includes retrieving a template to populate with data of the received metric message and mapping data that maps metric message data to fields of the template. The method then populates the template according to the mapping data. Once populated the populated template may then be transmitted via the first network to the second network to the second network and system management system.

In some embodiments of the method the template is an extensible markup language XML template. In such embodiment transmitting the populated template includes transmitting the XML template in a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP message to a web service providing at least one messaging service with regard to the network and system management system.

In another embodiment of the method prior to transmitting the populated template to the network and system management system the populated is stored to local data storage. Subsequently method in such embodiments includes receiving a confirmation at the populated template was received by the network and system management system and then deleting the populated template from the local data storage. Local data storage in such embodiments may be local to a computing device performing the method but may also be local in the sense that the local storage is accessible via a local network such as a LAN.

In some other embodiments prior to transmitting the populated template to the network and system management system the method further includes storing the populated template to a local data storage and periodically retrieving a plurality of populated templates from the local data storage. Again local data storage in such embodiments may be local to a computing device performing the method but may also be local in the sense that the local storage is accessible via a local network such as a LAN. The method may then aggregate the retrieved populated templates into a single data structure. In such embodiments the transmitting of the populated template includes transmitting the single data structure to the network and system management system.

Another embodiment is in the form of a system that may be implemented on one or more computers such as computer . Such a system includes at least one processor at least one memory device and at least one network interface device. The system further includes a first network and system management system stored on the at least one memory device and executable by the at least one processor to receive metric messages broadcast on a network by network entities. The system further includes a metric message connector module stored on the at least one memory device and executable by the at least one processor.

The metric message connector module is executable by the at least one processor in some embodiments to perform different data processing tasks. Such data processing tasks may include processing metric messages received by the first network and system management system to identify based on configuration data and data of the received metric messages metric messages to be forwarded to a second network and system management system on a second network. Further for each received metric message identified to be forwarded to the second network and system management system the metric message connector module may perform additional data processing tasks.

The addition data processing tasks of the metric message connector module with regard to each metric message identified to be forwarded to the second network and system management system may include retrieving from the at least one memory device an XML template to populate with data of the identified metric message and mapping data that maps metric message data to fields of the XML template. The metric message connector module may then populate the XML template with data of the identified metric message according to the mapping data. Once the XML template is populated the metric message connector module may then transmit via the at least one network interface device encoded within a SOAP message the populated XML template to the second network and system management system on the second network.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a non transitory computer readable medium. For example a computer program capable of performing one or more of the methods illustrated and described herein may be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a metric message connector of .

Another embodiment is in the form of a method. The method in such an embodiment includes receiving via a network a metric message from a first network and system management system. The metric message may be received in a standards based format or in a format of the first network and system management system that is different than a format of a second network and system management system to which a representation of the received message is to be transmitted. The formats of the first and second network and system management systems may be proprietary to their respective systems. However in other embodiments the formats of the first and second network and system management systems may actually be identical.

This method further includes determining based on configuration data and data of the received metric message that the received metric message is to be forwarded to the second network and system management system. When the received metric message is to be forwarded to the second network and system management system the method includes identifying a format for transmitting data of the received metric message to the second network and system management system. In some such embodiments the identified format is a format of a simple network management protocol message.

The method may the generate a message including data representative of the received metric message according to the identified format for transmitting to the second network and system management system. The generated message may then be transmitted via the network to the second network and system management system. Transmitting the generated message may include transmitting the generated message via the network in an API call to an API of the second network and system management system.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

