---

title: Filmstrip-based query suggestions
abstract: Various embodiments of the present invention present a search query suggestion to a user. In one embodiment a portion of a search query is received from a user. At least one search query suggestion is identified from a set of search query suggestions corresponding to the portion of the search query. At least one video frame is identified from at least video file associated with the at least one search query suggestion. The at least one search query suggestion and the at least one video frame is presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135335&OS=09135335&RS=09135335
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09135335
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121203
---
The present invention generally relates to information searches and more particularly relates to filmstrip based query suggestions for video searches.

Search engines have become useful tools in helping users find information of interest across the internet. Typically when a user wishes to use a search engine the user may input a search query into a search box. The user can then submit the search query which can lead the user to a search results page of one or more search results corresponding to the query. The user may then be able to select one of the search results in which the selection of the result may lead the user to a web page for browsing.

In one embodiment a method for presenting a search query suggestion to a user is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a portion of a search query from a user. At least one search query suggestion is identified from a set of search query suggestions corresponding to the portion of the search query. At least one video frame is identified from at least video file associated with the at least one search query suggestion. The at least one search query suggestion and the at least one video frame is presented to the user.

In another embodiment an information processing system for presenting a search query suggestion to a user is disclosed. The information processing system comprises a memory and a processor that is communicatively coupled to the memory. A search manager is communicatively coupled to the processor and the memory and is configured to perform a method. The method comprises receiving a portion of a search query from a user. At least one search query suggestion is identified from a set of search query suggestions corresponding to the portion of the search query. At least one video frame is identified from at least video file associated with the at least one search query suggestion. The at least one search query suggestion and the at least one video frame is presented to the user.

In yet another embodiment a computer program product for presenting a search query suggestion to a user is disclosed. The computer program product comprises a storage medium readable by a processing circuit and storing instructions for execution by the processing circuit for performing a method. The method comprises receiving a portion of a search query from a user. At least one search query suggestion is identified from a set of search query suggestions corresponding to the portion of the search query. At least one video frame is identified from at least video file associated with the at least one search query suggestion. The at least one search query suggestion and the at least one video frame is presented to the user.

The search server in one embodiment comprises a search manager and a repository of search suggestions . The search manager comprises a search module and a search suggestion manager . The search manager is configured to receive search queries or portions of search queries submitted by a user via the interactive environment . The search module of the search manager performs one or more searches for content at the content server s based on the search queries or portions thereof. The search module in one embodiment searches indexes not shown created from the content residing at the content server s and or searches the actual content .

The search suggestion manager in one embodiment comprises a search keyword monitor a content extractor and a suggestion presenter . The search suggestion manager is configured to perform auto complete functions operations that suggest a list of most likely query suggestions in response to the currently typed in portion of a search query by the user. A query suggestion in one embodiment is a complete search query that is suggested to a user based on his her partially inputted search keyword phrase. These likely query suggestions in one embodiment are obtained from the repository of query suggestions stored in the search server . It should be noted that the search suggestions can also be stored at one or more additional locations as well. The search suggestion manager and its components are discussed in greater detail below.

As discussed above the search manager is configured to provide search query term suggestions to a user based on the currently typed in portion of a search query by the user. The search query term suggestions can be provided for any type of searchable content such as but not limited to video files audio files web pages etc. Therefore even though the following discussion uses video content files as one example of searchable content embodiments of the present invention are not limited to such content.

The search keyword monitor of the search suggestion manager analyzes each received character individually and or as a group and compares these characters to the query suggestions stored in the query suggestion repository . Based on this comparison the search keyword monitor identifies query suggestions that match the characters at least within a given threshold. In one embodiment the query suggestions are search keywords phrases that have been previously submitted by other users and or the current user e.g. user search history to the search server . Each query suggestion can be associated with a weight rank based its popularity e.g. number of submissions relevancy e.g. number of times users have accepted the suggestion and or the like. The search keyword monitor in one embodiment utilizes these weights ranks to determine which query suggestions to select. The weights ranks can also be used by the suggestion presenter to determine how to sort organize the query suggestions when presenting the suggestions to a user. It should be noted that in another embodiment the search keyword monitor searches the Internet in real time to obtain query suggestions based on the characters entered by the user in the search box .

For example based on the characters Ja entered into the search box the search keyword monitor analyzes the search suggestion repository to identify search suggestions that correspond to the entered characters Ja . Once a set of search suggestions is identified the suggestion presenter presents the set of search suggestions to the user as shown in . shows a plurality of search suggestions associated with the characters Ja inputted into the search box . For example a first search suggestion includes the query terms Jane Doe Song A . A second search suggestion comprises the query terms Jane Doe Song N . A third search suggestion comprises the query terms Jane Doe Movie A . A fourth search suggestion comprises the query terms Jane Roe Song A .

In addition to the displaying search suggestions to the user the search manager also displays one or more video frames of one or more video files associated with a presented query suggestion . When multiple video frames are displayed for a given video file these multiple video frames are referred to as a filmstrip . For example shows a first set of filmstrips being displayed for the first search suggestion a second set of filmstrips being displayed for the second search suggestion a third set of filmstrips being displayed for the third search suggestion and a fourth set of filmstrips being displayed for the fourth search suggestion .

Individual video frames or filmstrips for a given search suggestion are obtained from video files associated with the search suggestion. In one embodiment one or more search suggestions stored within the search suggestion repository are associated with one or more video files. In this embodiment a search suggestion is stored with at least an identifier of each video file associated with the search suggestion. An identifier can be any type of identifier such as but not limited to a location flag file identifier etc. that allows the video file to be identified and or located. For example shows one example of a search suggestion entry within the search suggestion repository . In the example shown in the entry comprises the search suggestion Jane Doe Song A and four identifiers each corresponding to a video file associated with the search suggestion Jane Doe Song A . also shows that optional video file location information can be associated with the search suggestion entry as well. The file location information indicates the location where the corresponding video file is stored.

In another embodiment the search suggestion manager performs a search for video files associated with an identified search suggestion such as Jane Doe Song A in addition to or instead of maintaining video file information associated with the search suggestion. In this embodiment the search suggestion manager utilizes the identified search suggestion such as Jane Doe Song A as a search query and searches for video files that satisfy this query. For example the search module searches the content servers for video files that are associated with Jane Doe Song A .

When the search suggestion manager has identified the video files associated with a given search suggestion the context extractor of the search suggestion manager extracts one or more video frames from the identified video file . Frames can be extracted based on various extraction rules. For example a given number of frames can be extracted or a given number of frames per a given interval of time can be extracted. Frames can be extracted based on their popularity as annotated by users. Also publishers of the video files can mark specific frames for extraction. Once the video frames have been extracted the search suggestions and the frames filmstrips to corresponding to the video files associated with the search suggestions are presented to the user as shown in .

In the example of each filmstrip to or standalone frame corresponds to an individual video file . For example a first filmstrip corresponding to a first video file and a second filmstrip corresponding to a second video file is presented to the user for the first search suggestion Jane Doe Song A . In one embodiment the search suggestion presenter organizes sorts the frames filmstrips based on various factors. For example frames filmstrips can be organized based on their popularity e.g. number of views the ranking of the webpage website hosting the video file the relevance of the video file to the search suggestion etc.

It should be noted that each filmstrip to or standalone frame can be associated with one or more additional frames not shown of the corresponding video file. For example five minute video may be played at 24 frames per second for a total of 7200 frames. The search manager in one embodiment displays only a portion of these 7200 frames. Therefore as the user places a pointer cursor over or selects a given filmstrip or individual frame the search manager presents one or more additional frames associated with the given filmstrip or individual frame to the user. This allows the user to drill down to a more detailed view of the given filmstrip or individual frame. Alternatively the user is able to drill up from a more detailed view to a higher level view as well. In another embodiment if a filmstrip is presented for multiple videos with one frame per video the user can select any of these frames. The user can perform the drill down operations discussed above on the individual frame. A filmstrip comprising multiple frames is then displayed to the user for the video file associated with the individual frame.

In one embodiment if the displayed search suggestion is associated with one or more frames filmstrips currently not being displayed the user can select a widget or perform some other action to scroll the displayed frames filmstrips. For example shows that the user has selected a widget within the interactive environment as indicated by the dashed box . This action results in a current view of the frames filmstrips for the search suggestion to change so that one or more additional frames filmstrips are displayed to the user.

The displayed individual frames and or one or more frames of a displayed filmstrip can comprise a snapshot from the corresponding video file associated with the frame. These snapshots in one embodiment are displayed to the user either individually and or in sequence to provide a preview of the video file. For example in one embodiment as the user places a cursor or pointer over a frame a larger view of the video snapshot along with metadata associated with the snapshot and or corresponding video file is displayed to the user.

For example shows that a user has placed a cursor over a frame of the first filmstrip displayed for the first search suggestion . The search suggestion manager detects this action performed by the user and displays a window within the interactive environment comprising a video snapshot associated with the frame along with metadata associated with the corresponding video file. The metadata comprises any information associated with the video file and or specific frame . For example the metadata can include the file name of the video file a description of the video file post or publish date of the video file a view count associated with the video file the location of where the video file is stored hosted etc. In another embodiment a portion of the video can be displayed in the window. For example if the user has placed the cursor over the filmstrip the search suggestion manager can place each of the video frames of the filmstrip within the window or play another portion of the video file .

If the user selects a displayed frame or filmstrip which can also be displayed as part of a drill down or drill up operation discussed above the video file associated therewith is presented to the user. For example the video file can be streamed and displayed to the user downloaded and played locally on the user system and or the like. Alternatively the user may click on the corresponding query suggestion or any other query suggestion and have the search module search the internet as a whole for websites of interest. Alternatively the user can complete his her entry in the search box and select the search widget to have the search module search the internet as a whole for websites of interest.

The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Although not shown in the main memory includes the search manager and its components the search suggestion repository and the search suggestions . The search manager and its components can also reside within the processor or be a separate hardware component. The system memory can also include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . The information processing system can further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only a storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable or removable non volatile media such as one or more solid state disks and or magnetic media typically called a hard drive . A magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to the bus by one or more data media interfaces. The memory can include at least one program product having a set of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of an embodiment of the present invention.

Program utility having a set of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs e.g. applications other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the present invention.

The information processing system can also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with the information processing system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet the information processing system can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted the network adapter communicates with the other components of information processing system via the bus . Other hardware and or software components can also be used in conjunction with the information processing system . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention have been discussed above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

