---

title: Business intelligent in-document suggestions
abstract: Implementing business intelligent in-document suggestion may include detecting a content that a user is inputting into a document or selecting from the document. Based on the content, a key word may be extracted to generate a query. The query may be transmitted to an enterprise search engine for enterprise intelligence. Based on returned search results, a suggestion may be generated and presented to a user device by integrating the suggestion into the document. In some embodiments, the suggestion may include a people suggestion, a document suggestion, a phrase suggestion and a document template suggestion. In some embodiments, adding an additional content or selecting a subset of the content may refine the suggestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959109&OS=08959109&RS=08959109
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08959109
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120806
---
In an enterprise efficient document collaboration is a crucial activity for business productivity. Conventionally the document collaboration within the enterprise can be divided into a number of distinct activities such as authoring a document searching for enterprise information associated with the document as well as organizing and analyzing the enterprise information. However this document collaboration may present some problems e.g. low efficiency in the light of continuously growing data associated with the enterprise information.

Described herein are techniques for unifying enterprise search and authoring by leveraging enterprise intelligence. A key word may be extracted from a content that a user is inputting into a document or selecting from the document. Based on the extracted key word a query may be generated and submitted to an enterprise search service for an enterprise that the user is associated with. The enterprise search service may be for searching enterprise data such as personnel data product or service data etc. Once the query results are received a suggestion may be generated based on the query results. This suggestion may be then presented to a user device by integrating the suggestion into a user interface for displaying the document.

In some aspects of the disclosure adding additional content or selecting a subset of the text may refine the suggestion.

In some aspects of the disclosure the suggestion may be one of a people suggestion a document suggest a phrase suggestion or a document template suggestion. In some embodiments a suggested document may be added to a citation section of the authored document when text is pasted from the suggested document to the authored document. In some embodiments the citation for the authored document may embed a light weight viewer for the suggested document.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure is directed in part to implement real time business intelligent in document suggestions. As used herein the term in document suggestions means that the suggestions are presented in a user interface for displaying the document not that those suggestions are automatically placed within the document. Enterprise intelligence may be leveraged more effectively by exploiting context of an authored document and unifying enterprise search and authoring. This unification may provide a user experience that reduces clicks and context switching thus increasing the business productivity.

While authoring a document a key word may be extracted from content that a user is inputting into the document or selecting from the document. Based on the extracted key word a query may be generated and submitted for enterprise search associated with an enterprise that the user is associated with. Once query results are received a suggestion may be generated based on the query results. This suggestion may be then presented to a user by integrating the suggestion into a user interface for displaying the document.

The content data may further include application specific data and environment data. The application specific data may include the name and the type of the application and or a current state of the application e.g. idle receiving input processing data and outputting data . The environment data may include data on the real world environment. For example the environmental data may include a time at each instance when the user inputs content the weather at each time when the user inputs text etc. The environmental data may also concurrently or alternatively include current system software and or hardware status or events of the user device . Additionally the content data may include user status data collected from personal web services by the user. The collected status data may provide explicit or implicit clues regarding the document that the user is authoring.

After the processing engine has acquired the content data the processing engine may recognize and extract a key word from the content data . In some embodiments the processing engine may use machine learning based techniques such as natural language processing NLP computational linguistics and or text analytics to recognize and to extract the key word. In these instances a learning model may be generated from a corpus of training data that includes a large number of sentences associated with enterprise intelligence. In some embodiments the training data may include enterprise intelligence associated with an enterprise that the user is working with.

Based on the key words extracted from the content data the processing engine may formulate a query and submit the query to a web service hosted by the host server. For example the web service may include an enterprise search. In these instances the host server may conduct the enterprise search generate a result and transmit the result to the processing engine . In some embodiments the enterprise search may be hosted by other web service providers. In these instances the host server may enable the processing engine to receive the result from servers of the web service providers.

Once receiving the result the processing engine may generate a suggestion based on the result . The suggestion may be a suggested document one or more suggested people a suggested phrase a suggested documental template a suggested enterprise statistics and or any other suggested information that is associated with the enterprise. The processing engine may then transmit the suggestion to the interface .

The suggestion may then be displayed by the interface on the user device . The user device may via the interface enable the user to compose edit format print and conduct any other productions of a portion e.g. words or entire of the document . The user device may be a mobile telephone a smart phone a tablet computer a laptop computer a network a personal digital assistance PDA a gaming device a media player or any other mobile computing device that includes a display and can interface with a user via a user interface and connect to one or more networks to exchange information with the host server or another server providing an enterprise search.

The network s may include wired and or wireless networks that enable communications between the various computing devices described in the computing environment . In some embodiments the network s may include local area networks LANs wide area networks WAN mobile telephone networks MTNs and other types of networks possibly used in conjunction with one another to facilitate communication between the various computing devices i.e. the user device and or the host server . The computing devices are described in greater detail with reference to the following figures.

As discussed herein a document refers to any multi line text input area for any application whether a text area field within a webpage an editing window for a chat client e.g. instant messaging client etc. and or any editing surfaces within office suite authoring programs e.g. electronic mail email clients word processors note taking software and presentation software . Additionally the user may author the document within mobile text input areas such as to author an SMS Short Message Service text message via the user device .

The processing engine may include a pre processing component and a post processing component . The pre processing component may acquire the content data from the interface . The pre processing component may include a key word module and a query module . Once acquiring the content data from the interface the key word module may analyze the content data to extract a key word from the content data . The extraction may be implemented by machine learning based technologies such as NLP using a training data associated with enterprise intelligence of an enterprise. In some embodiments the training data may be associated with the enterprise intelligence of the enterprise that the user is working with. Based on the extracted key word the query module may formulate the query .

In some embodiments the extraction and query generation may be implemented by hooking into an object model OM associated with a word processor e.g. Microsoft Office Word . The OM may provide crucial information regarding the content data acquired from the document which lets the key word module make decisions on what key word s to identify and enable query generation. For example the pre processing component may be implemented as a web application that runs on the user device . The client side object model may be used as a part of a web Extension Framework to integrate the pre processing component with the document . The web application may runs in Silverlight with an elevated trust. The user may click a tool bar e.g. the Ribbon or select text manually to trigger acquiring content data from the web application extracting the key word and formulating the query .

Once the query is formulated the query module may submit the query to a web service hosted by the host server . For example the web service may be an enterprise search. The host server may host a web application platform e.g. Microsoft SharePoint for common enterprise web requirements. In some embodiments the web application platform may enable an enterprise to manage scale and or initiate a board variety of business applications. In some embodiments the web application platform may include pre defined applications for commonly requested functionalities e.g. intranet portals extranets websites document file management collaboration space social tools enterprise search and enterprise intelligence. For example the enterprise search may be implemented by the web application platform to search the enterprise resources. The enterprise search may index data and documents from a variety of sources such as file systems intranets document management systems electronic mails and database within the enterprise. Security policies may be used to control the access to the enterprise search.

In some embodiments the web application platform may be hosted by another web service provider. In these instances the host server may host a web application that implements functionalities of the processing engine .

After the host server processes the query the host server may return the result to the post processing component . The post processing component may include an analyzer and a suggestion module . The analyzer may analyze the result . In some embodiments the analyzer may analyze the result to remove data that does not align with the key words extract from the interface . The analyzer may remove the data from the result based on a predetermined rule specified by the enterprise and or the user . In some embodiments the analyzer may receive multiple results. The analyzer may sort the multiple returned results based on for example types. After analyzing and manipulating the result the analyzer may feed the result to the suggestion module to generate the suggestion .

In some embodiments the suggestion module may generate suggestion . The suggestion may be a people suggestion which may indicate certain people aligned with the content data . The people may be for example an expert of a certain technical area related to the content data and or the extracted key word. The people suggestion may further indicate information of the people such as their expertise office locations current availabilities pictures contact information documents authored by the people enterprise groups that the people belong to and or any other enterprise information associated with the people.

In some embodiments the suggestion may be a document suggestion which may indicate a document aligned with the content data . The document suggestion may further indicate an enterprise policy a document template a legal statement confidential information an enterprise statistics metadata associated with the suggested document and the document . For example the document template may be aligned with the content data or a format of the document . In some embodiments the suggestion may be a phrase suggestion that assists the user to input additional content. In some embodiments the suggestion module may generate multiple suggestions which may include a people suggestion a document suggestion a phrase suggestion and or other suggestions aligned with the content data .

After the suggestion is generated the suggestion module may transmit the suggestion to the interface . The interface may then display the suggestion on the user device the displaying being discussed in a greater detail in .

In some embodiments the processing engine may include an applications programming interface API that may be available for access by a web application that runs on the user device or for access by web services hosted on the host server . For example the API may be object oriented component based API such as the Windows Communication Foundation WCF included on the .NET Framework manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash.

In some embodiments the processing engine may include a cache component . The cache component may store list query results and or objects such as suggested documents sites and webs that are associated with the enterprise. These objects may be expensive to create. Therefore the cache component may improve the performance of the processing engine if the same objects are repeatedly accessed. In some embodiments the cache component may be implemented by using a back end caching. In these instances the cache component may reside within a site architecture e.g. the host server that provides the enterprise search and cache the list query results and or suggested information including for example people documents templates and statistics that are aligned with the content data . In some embodiments the cache component may be implemented by using a proxy caching. In these instances the cache component may reside outside of the site architecture that provides the enterprise search.

At the interface may enable the user to author the document . In some embodiments the user may conduct an online chat or email composition. Via the interface the user may compose edit format print and conduct any other productions of a portion e.g. the words or entire of the document e.g. a chat log or an email .

At the processing engine may facilitate an enterprise search while the user is authoring. The processing engine may acquire the content data from the interface and generate the query based on the content data . The query may be transmitted to the host server which may then conduct the enterprise search and return the result to the processing engine . In some embodiments the result may be stored in the cache component . In these instances the result may be directly returned to the post processing component . Accordingly the ambient search in this disclosure may integrate searching analyzing and writing tightly.

At the interface may present the suggestion on the user device . The suggestion may be a people suggestion a document suggestion a template suggestion enterprise statistics and or other suggested information aligned with the content data . The suggestion may be surfaced inside of the user interface displaying the document such that the suggestion is integrated into the user interface . In some embodiments the suggestion may be surfaced by implementing an Input Method Editor IME . In some embodiments the suggestion may be attached to the document which for example may be an electronic mail email .

At the processing engine may extract a key word from the content data . The extraction may be implemented by a machine learning based technology such as NLP. In some embodiments the machine learning based technology may be trained by using a business model including data associated with the enterprise intelligence of an enterprise. In some embodiments the extraction of the content data may be implemented by using an object model OM such that the document can be explored in a syntactic way. The OM may be associated with the application running the interface and provide crucial information regarding the document . This crucial information may enable the processing engine to identify the key word for query generation.

At the processing engine may formulate the query based on the key word extracted from the content data . In some embodiments the query may be structured such that an enterprise search engine may be used to search the enterprise wide resources and or other search engines may be used to search other data sources. At the query may then submitted to an enterprise search hosted by the host server . At the result may be received by the processing engine . In another embodiment the query is submitted to a search engine of an enterprise designated for searching data of the enterprise.

After receiving the result the processing engine may analyze the result at . For example the processing engine may parse the result and sort them based on various types. These types may be documents people templates phrases and other search results aligned with the content data . Based on the analyzed and sorted result the processing engine may generate the suggestion at .

The suggestion may be a document suggestion a people suggestion a phrase suggestion and or other suggestions aligned with the content data . For example the document suggestion may indicate specific policies legal statement e.g. contracts document templates that are aligned with the content data . The people suggestion may indicate people who authored the suggested documents experts in certain technical area that is related to the technical area reflected in the content data and other people that are aligned with the content data . The phrase suggestions may include phrases assisting the user to input additional content in the document . In some embodiments adding additional words or selecting a subset of text e.g. the content data may trigger another ambient search and or refining the suggestion .

At the suggestion may be presented to the interface on the user device is the displaying being discussed in a greater detail in . In some embodiments the interface may automatically add a suggested document to a citation section of the document when text is pasted from the suggestion document to the document . In these instances the citation section of the document may embed a light weight view in the suggested document.

The UI may include a title section a toolbar section a scrollbar section a status section and a content section . The title section may include a title of the document e.g. Document . The toolbar section may be filled with graphical representations of control elements which are grouped by different functionalities. For example the toolbar section may include a ribbon that is used to trigger the ambient search conducted by the processing engine . The scrollbar section may control the presentation of continuous text picture or other content that can be scrolled. The status section may display messages such as a cursor position a number of pages in the document and a state of the caps lock num lock and scroll lock keys. The content section may allow the user to input or select the content data .

The UI may also include a suggestion section that enable the user to review and to manipulate suggestions generated by the processing engine . The suggestion section may include a search box that may indicate a key word extracted from the content data . In some embodiments the search box may enable the user to input a key word as a query for the enterprise search. The suggestion section may also include a document suggestion a people suggestion a project suggestion and an indicator . The project suggestion may provide information for projects that are running in the enterprise and aligned with the content data . The indicator may indicate a current page number and or a number of pages in suggested information. The document suggestion and the people suggestion are discussed in a greater detail in .

The document suggestion may also include an expander that enables the user to further review one of the suggested documents e.g. Product A designs by expanding the document suggestion to an expanded suggestion document . The expanded suggestion document may display the suggested document in a greater detail e.g. Product A designs . The expanded suggestion document may include a expanded title box a expanded key word box a content preview box a status box and a full screen view box that enable the user to view Product A designs in a full screen. The content preview box may provide a preview of the suggested document for the user to review. The expanded suggestion document may also include a restorer that enable the user to restore the expended suggestion document to the document suggestion .

The people suggestion may also include an expander that enables the user to further review one of the suggested people e.g. Lucy Lee and to expand the people suggestion to an expanded people suggestion . The expanded people suggestion may display the suggested document in a greater detail. The expanded people suggestion may include a expanded title box a expanded contact box an expertise box a recently authored document box a status box a profile box and a full screen view box that enable the user to view Product A designs in a full screen. The expanded people suggestion may also include a restorer that enable the user to restore the expended people suggestion to the people suggestion .

In a very basic configuration the computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device the system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The system memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system includes a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API . The computing device is of a very basic configuration demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but will interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable media may include at least two types of computer readable media namely computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The system memory the removable storage and the non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device . Moreover the computer readable media may include computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor s perform various functions and or operations described herein.

In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission mechanism. As defined herein computer storage media does not include communication media.

The computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and are not discussed at length here.

The computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network. These networks may include wired networks as well as wireless networks. The communication connections are one example of communication media.

It is appreciated that the illustrated computing device is only one example of a suitable device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the various embodiments described. Other well known computing devices systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor base systems set top boxes game consoles programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and or the like. For example some or all of the components of the computing device may be implemented in a cloud computing environment such that resources and or services are made available via a computer network for selective use by the user devices .

Although the techniques have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing such techniques.

