---

title: Generating customer-specific vehicle proposals for vehicle service customers
abstract: Methods, systems and computer program products for generating customer-specific vehicle proposals based on ongoing vehicle finance pay-off information received from a third party entity. The embodiments of the invention herein disclosed provide for efficient identification of potential customers based on their current vehicle and the ongoing financial obligation related to the current vehicle. A replacement vehicle is identified and a vehicle proposal, such as a sales or lease proposal, is generated for one or more of the identified potential customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08355950&OS=08355950&RS=08355950
owner: HCD Software, LLC
number: 08355950
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120120
---
The present invention is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 626 013 entitled Methods Apparatus and Computer Program Products for Targeted and Customized Marketing of Prospective Customers filed on Nov. 25 2009 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 155 388 entitled Methods Apparatus and Computer Program Products for Targeted and Personalized Marketing of Customers filed Feb. 25 2009 both applications being assigned to the assignee of the present application.

In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to methods apparatus and computer program products for targeted and customized marketing of customers and more specifically an automated process whereby previous sales lease customers are identified based on current product service or property type and or previous financial transaction parameters related to the current product service or property and a replacement product service or property proposal is determined and offered to one or more of the identified customers such that the proposal is structured to take into account the value of the current product service or property and variable parameters associated with the proposed transaction.

Traditionally vehicle dealers such as automobile dealerships manufacturers and the like have been limited in their ability to effectively market their vehicles to previous customers and or current service customers. In many instances automobile dealerships have typically relied on the product itself as the means for trying to assure customer allegiance in the form of repeated purchases leases from the same manufacturer and more importantly the same dealership. In this regard the mindset has been that if the customer has been pleased with his her current vehicle in terms of value performance and reliability as well as pleased with the service provided by the dealership over the lifetime of the vehicle the customer is likely to return to the same dealership for subsequent vehicle purchases leases.

It is only when and if the previous customer returns to the vehicle dealership that a vehicle proposal is offered to the returning customer based on his her current needs. This typically transpires by having the previous customer interface with a sales associate so that the sales associate can gain an appreciation of the customer s current needs e.g. what type of vehicle the customer desires what type of financial situation the customer is currently experiencing and any other relevant information that may need to be considered in offering and structuring a vehicle sales lease proposal for the customer.

Targeted marketing or advertising in the vehicle sales realm and more specifically targeted marketing advertising aimed at returning customers has generally been limited to mass postal electronic mailings or the like that are propagated to a targeted segment of the population or to the specific group of previous sales lease customers and or current service customers. These types of marketing tactics have limited success because they are generic in content and do not address directly to the individual needs of particular customers. While such marketing advertising campaigns may be directly addressed to previous customers and may acknowledge the fact that the customer is a previous customer the advertisement marketing materials do not typically differ from individual to individual and thus do not address the specific needs of the previous customer.

In today s electronically networked world the ability to obtain in real time information and more specifically consumer information is rapidly increasing on a continuous basis. Not only is an increasing amount of data information being accumulated and stored at the individual or consumer level the ability to efficiently mine this data is becoming increasingly more realistic. In terms of a vehicle dealership the dealership has instantaneous access to previous vehicle financial transaction data such as through dealership databases including ADP Automatic Data Processing dealer services databases Reynolds Reynolds databases and the like. In addition the vehicle dealerships have access to their own unique customer specific data. Additionally vehicle dealerships can access and mine data from any other current future known and or future accessible data base. Such auxiliary databases may be instrumental in providing data to a vehicle dealership which it can then use to determine a vehicle proposal for a customer based on insight into the customer s needs.

Therefore a need exists to develop methods apparatus computer program products and the like which provide for targeted and customized marketing to vehicle customers and more specifically targeted and customized marketing to a dealership s and or manufacturer s previous customers. The desired methods apparatus computer program products and the like should be an automated process that allows for dealerships and or manufacturers to efficiently construct and disseminate customized vehicle proposals that address the recipient of the proposal s particular circumstances including the financial obligations surrounding the recipient s current vehicle and the like. As a means of constructing the customized vehicle proposals the desired methods apparatus computer program products and the like should have access to customer databases and any other databases that may provide insight into the customer s current vehicle such as the current value of the vehicle the customer s current vehicle financial transaction obligations and or the customer s current needs.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus and computer program products are defined that provide for targeted and customized marketing to prospective customers and specifically in some embodiments prospective customers having a previous relationship with the dealership or manufacturer implementing the targeted marketing. The embodiments of the invention herein disclosed provide for efficient identification of previous customers based on their current vehicle and or their previous and in some instances ongoing financial obligation related to the current vehicle. A new or previously owned vehicle is identified and a financial transaction proposal such as a sales or lease offer is generated for one or more of the identified previous customers based on customers meeting criteria associated with variable parameters of the proposed transaction. The vehicle proposal is automatically generated in report form which can subsequently be communicated to the customer via an acceptable communication means such as telephonic postal mail electronic mail text message Short Message Service SMS message or the like.

In one embodiment of the invention a method for generating targeted and customized vehicle proposals is defined. The method includes receiving one or more first computer inputs for selecting one or more prospective customers from a customer database receiving one or more second computer inputs for identifying a vehicle to propose to the one or more prospective customers and receiving one or more third computer inputs for defining one or more variable parameters associated with vehicle proposals. The method additionally includes determining by computer processing the one or more prospective customers based on the first and third computer inputs and determining by computer processing for each of the one or more prospective customers a customer specific proposal for the identified vehicle based at least in part on an estimated market value of a prospective customer s current vehicle. Also the method includes storing the customer specific proposals in computer memory.

In specific embodiments of the method the customer database that is used for selecting prospective customers includes one or more of a previous vehicle transaction customer database e.g. a previous sales and or lease database a vehicle service customer database e.g. a previous and or pending service database or a third party customer database such as a financial institution database or the like.

In other specific embodiments of the method the first inputs for selecting the one or more prospective customers may be associated with one or more of current vehicle contract type e.g. sales lease etc current vehicle type parameters e.g. make model year etc. current vehicle financial obligation parameters e.g. range of interest rates range of monthly payments range of term range of money factor etc. current vehicle transaction parameters e.g. transaction year sales finance person zip code geographic location of customers etc. or the like.

In further specific embodiments of the method the second inputs for identifying the vehicle to propose to the prospective customers may be associated with vehicle type parameters e.g. make model year other attributes etc. or the vehicle may be identified from a listing of currently inventoried vehicles.

In still further specific embodiments of the method the third inputs for defining variable parameters associated with vehicle proposals may include but are not limited to an acceptable variance amount associated with a current monthly vehicle payment amount a minimum equity amount in the current vehicle a minimum targeted sales lease profit amount for the identified vehicle sale lease price interest rate payment term incentive and the like.

Other specific embodiments of the method include communicating the customer specific proposals to each of the one or more prospective customers. The communication of the customer specific proposals may in some embodiments occur electronically such as via e mail text message or the like. In still further embodiments the communication of the customer specific communications may occur automatically based on a predetermined schedule. In other embodiments communicating the customer specific proposal may further generate an automated proposal letter and mailing the proposal letter to the associated prospective client or electronically communicating the customer specific proposal to a sales associate.

In still further embodiments the method may include generating a report associated with the determined customer specific proposals such as an internal report that is disseminated to sales associates or the like. In one embodiment the report is generated automatically and electronically communicated to a predetermined group of sales associates. In yet another embodiment the method may include generating a map that is configured to associate each of the one or more prospective customers with a geographic location on the map.

A computer program product that includes a computer readable medium provides for further embodiment of the invention. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive one or more first inputs for selecting one or more prospective customers from a customer database a second set of codes for causing a computer to receive one or more second inputs for identifying a vehicle to propose to the one or more prospective customers and a third set of codes for causing a computer to receive one or more third inputs for defining one or more variable parameters associated with vehicle proposals. The medium additionally includes a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to determine the one or more prospective customers based on the first and third computer inputs and a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to determine for each of the one or more prospective customers a customer specific proposal for the identified vehicle based at least in part on an estimated market value of a prospective customer s current vehicle. The medium also includes a sixth set of codes for causing a computer to store the customer specific proposals in memory.

A system for targeted and customized vehicle proposals defines yet another embodiment of the invention. The system includes one or more previous customer databases. Additionally the system includes a computing device such as a site or enterprise wide server in network communication with the one or more customer databases. The computing device includes at least one processor a memory and a customer marketing module stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor.

The customer marketing module is configured to receive through displayable user interfaces first inputs for selecting one or more prospective customers from one of the customer databases receive second inputs for identifying a vehicle to propose to the one or more prospective customers and receive third inputs for defining one or more variable parameters associated with vehicle proposals.

Additionally the customer marketing module includes prospective customer logic configured to determine one or more prospective customers based on the first and third inputs and proposal determining logic configured to determine a customer specific proposal for the identified vehicle for each of the one or more prospective customers based at least in part on an estimated market value of a prospective customer s current vehicle.

Thus methods apparatus and computer program products are defined herein for targeted and customized marketing to vehicle customers and specifically in some embodiments vehicle customers having a previous relationship with the dealership or manufacturer implementing the marketing campaign. The embodiments of the invention herein disclosed provide for efficient identification of previous customers based on their current vehicle and or their previous and in some instances ongoing financial obligation related to the current vehicle. A new or previously owned vehicle is identified and a financial transaction proposal such as a sales or lease offer is generated for one or more of the identified previous customers based on customers meeting criteria associated with variable parameters of the proposed transaction.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for targeted and customized marketing of vehicle customers and more specifically targeted and customized re marketing to previous vehicle customers of a dealer manufacturer or lender. For the purposes of this invention the term vehicles as used herein and as claimed refers to any conveyance that may require financing such as but not limited to an automobile a truck a motorcycle a recreational vehicle RV a mobile home a boat an airplane or the like or further encompasses both new and previously owned leased vehicles.

While embodiments herein disclosed are discussed in terms of vehicles the methods systems computer program products and the like may extend to other products property and or services which utilize some form of financing and or some re occurring payment model. For example the embodiments herein described may apply to real property insurance policies such as life insurance policies or the like. As such the invention may provide for targeted and customized marketing and moreover re marketing of real estate buyers leasors and or life insurance policy holders owners.

The methods systems and computer program products herein disclosed are operative to provide prospective customers with a vehicle proposal that is consistent with or better than their pre existing financial obligation in terms of monthly payments equity or the like. Embodiments of the present invention devise one or more vehicle proposals for a prospective customer based on assessing the current financial obligations associated with his her current vehicle and choosing an appropriate vehicle to offer the prospective customer based on an estimate of a variance amount above or below their current monthly payment obligations. In this regard if the dealer believes that a prospective customer is within a 50.00 range for increase in their monthly payment i.e. the prospective customer would find acceptable a 50.00 or less increase in their monthly payment a vehicle proposal is determined that offers the prospective customer a new or previously owned vehicle and in some instances an upgraded make model at only a slighter higher i.e. 50.00 or less monthly payment than they are currently undertaking Moreover in today s volatile financial climate the present invention allows for devising proposals that may decrease the prospective customer s financial obligations by decreasing their monthly payment but at the same time placing the prospective customer in a new and in some instances an upgraded make model. Such a proposal may be devised by choosing a less expensive make model than the prospective customers current vehicle providing better finance rates than the current financial obligation extending the finance term on the proposal or lowering the profit or incentives provided to the dealer in the proposal or a combination of the forgoing

Referring to a high level schematic block diagram is depicted of system for targeted and customized marketing of vehicle customers. The system comprises a server computing device which may be a dedicated server computer or a desktop laptop computer implementing a server application such as SQL Structured Query Language server express or greater available from the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. As such server computing device includes a computer platform that includes memory and a processor in communication with memory . The memory stores and the processor is configured to operate customer marketing module .

Customer marketing module is operable to identify one or more targeted customers based on their current vehicle type current vehicle mileage current vehicle age ongoing financial obligations associated with the current vehicle and or variable parameters associated with a vehicle transaction proposal. In addition to identifying one or more targeted customers the invention provides for the user to identify a proposed vehicle for the one or more targeted customers by either choosing a proposed vehicle from a listing of available vehicles or defining vehicle parameters for a proposed vehicle.

Once a proposed vehicle is identified variable parameters associated with a proposed vehicle offer are set. For a sales proposal these variable parameters may include but are not limited to vehicle parameters such as a sales price a finance rate a finance term a minimum dealer profit and a dealer incentive and prospective customer parameters such as variance of the monthly payment above the current payment and minimum equity in the current vehicle. For a lease proposal these variable parameters may include but are not limited to vehicle parameters such as a minimum lease profit a dealer incentive a cap cost reduction a residual percentage and a money factor and prospective customer parameters such as variance of the monthly payment above the current payment.

Once the prospective customers are identified a vehicle is identified and proposal variable parameters are set a proposal is determined. Determination of the proposal includes determining an estimated market value of the customer s current vehicle. Additionally determination of a sales proposal may include but is not limited to determining an estimated current vehicle payoff amount determining estimated sales tax determining an estimated net cap cost for the proposed vehicle and determining an estimated monthly payment for the proposed vehicle. For a lease proposal determination may include but is not limited to determining an estimated monthly finance charge determining a proposed finance charge determining estimated total taxes determining an estimated monthly depreciation charge and determining and setting a lease turn in alert.

Once the proposals for each prospective customer are determined the module may generate an internal report for the dealer that includes customer information current customer vehicle information and the proposal for each prospective customer. The internal report may be automatically disseminated to a designated email distribution list. In addition the module may also generate and initiate the communication of customer email texts voice mail or the like that provides the proposal to the customer and or a letter generating routine that provides for a postal letter template that includes the proposal.

In addition to server computing device system includes database server . While a single server is shown in in practice the database server may comprise more than one server. Server includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory. The memory stores and the processor is configured to access sales lease database and or service database and or third party database such as a financial institution databases or the like. Sales lease database and service database may be internal dealership based databases or external databases. External databases may include but are not limited to Automatic Data Processing ADP dealer services database Reynolds Reynolds database or the like. Thus the network communication link between the server computing device that includes the customer marketing module and the database server may be a local network an external network such as the Internet or a combination of a local network and an external network. To facilitate the exchange of data between the system and the internal databases the system may be in real time connection with such databases to insure up to date data or alternatively the system may periodically upload data from such databases.

The sales lease database may be accessed by customer marketing module to retrieve information related to previous customer sales or leases such as previous customer s current vehicle type and ongoing financial obligations associated with the current vehicle. This type of information is used to define the group of prospective customers to whom a proposal will be made.

The service database may be accessed to identity one or more prospective customers based on a pending or previous service appointment. Additionally service database may be accessed by customer marketing module to retrieve information related to previous service information such as vehicle type service history and the like. This type of information may also be used to define the group of prospective customers that the proposal will be offered to. Additionally service database may be accessed by customer marketing module to retrieve information associated with the present condition of the customer s current vehicle which may be used during the proposal determination process to determine an estimated market value of the current vehicle. For example the service database may indicate a most recent mileage reading for the current vehicle.

The third party database such as financial institution database or the like may be accessed by customer marketing module to retrieve information related to previous or ongoing financial transactions such as ongoing loans or the like financed through the financial institution. In addition to identifying prospective customers based on the previous ongoing financial transactions the third party database can provide other information such as FICO scores loan payoff information past due or late payment information and the like.

Referring to a schematic block diagram is provided that illustrates various databases which may be included in system according to present embodiments of the invention. In addition to sales lease database service database and third party database the customer marketing module may be in communication with and access other databases such as vehicle trade in market value database customer information database or any other database that provides for public or private access. Customer marketing module may access vehicle trade in market value database to determine the current trade in value for the prospective customer s current vehicle. Examples of vehicle trade in market value databases include but are not limited to BlackBook CarFax or the like. As previously noted the customer marketing module may access a service database to retrieve information that is obtained as part of the dealer servicing the customer s existing vehicle that reflects the present condition of the current vehicle such as a current mileage reading which may be used during the proposal determination process to determine an estimated market value of the customer s or group of customers current vehicle. In addition the customer marketing module may provide for the dealer user to define a book value to use parameter such as wholesale average or the like.

The customer information database may include any database that provides contact type information for the customer such as current address current phone numbers current email addresses and the like. The customer marketing module may access customer information database to verify that customer information found in an internal sales lease database is up to date and accurate and provide updated contact information where needed. An example of a customer information database includes but is not limited to Whitepages.com or the like.

Other databases currently accessible or accessible in the future may also be accessed and implemented in conjunction with the customer marketing module . The other databases may include any database that includes further customer information or customer demographic information that may be used by the customer marketing module to determine the group of prospective customers to be targeted. For example other database may include a credit reporting database that may be accessed to estimate the current financial status of prospective customers. Examples of credit reporting databases include Equifax Experian TransUnion and the like. Additionally other databases may include a lender database a census database a tax database or any other government registration database such as a state or county vehicle registration database. Such databases may be accessed to determine prospective customers that are new to the geographic area or the like. Additionally other databases may include a map database such as Google map Microsoft MapPoint or the like that are accessible by the customer marketing module to generate maps that indicate the address physical location of prospective customers identified in the proposal process. Also any other database that may provide insight into the customer s current financial status may also be beneficial to determining the group of targeted prospective customers. For example a government database that indicates a claim for employment benefits may be beneficial to selecting a target prospective customer group that may be interested in vehicle proposals that would take them out from under an existing financial obligation and place them in a vehicle with a new financial obligation less than their current obligation e.g. lower monthly payments.

Turning the reader s attention to a block diagram is depicted of a server computing device that includes the customer marketing module according to the present embodiment of the invention. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various optional embodiments. The server computing device may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices such as a personal computer a laptop portable computer a wireless or handheld computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a server or the like. The computer platform is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as customer marketing module and the like. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as customer marketing module or the like stored in the memory of server computing device .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of server computing device and the operability of the device on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices.

Additionally computing platform includes a communication module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the server computing device as well as between the network . In described aspects the communication module enables the wired and or wireless communication of all correspondence between server computing device and other wired or wireless devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless network communication connection.

The memory of server computing device stores customer marketing module . Customer marketing module includes display logic that is operable for displaying User Interfaces UIs such as previous vehicle transaction identifying UI shown and described in proposed vehicle sales transaction identifying UI shown and described in and proposed vehicle lease transaction identifying UI shown and described in .

UI may include a plurality of previous vehicle parameter input fields which define the type of vehicle that prospective customers currently own finance such as input fields for make model year and the like. UI may also include a plurality of previous vehicle transaction input fields which define attributes parameters associated with the financial obligation i.e. loan or lease pertaining to the current vehicle. Inputs into input fields and are implemented as search criteria for identifying prospective customers from an internal or external customer database.

UI may include a plurality of proposed vehicle parameter input fields which define the type of vehicle that is being proposed for a sale proposal to the prospective customer such as input fields for make model year and the like. Or the UI may allow for the user dealer to select the vehicle from a list of available vehicles. UI may also include a plurality of proposed vehicle transaction input fields which define attributes parameters associated with the proposed financial loan pertaining to the proposed vehicle. Inputs into input fields and are subsequently used in determining the specifics of the sales proposal that are presented to the prospective customers.

UI may include a plurality of proposed vehicle parameter input fields which define the type of vehicle that is being proposed for a lease proposal to the prospective customer such as input fields for make model year and the like. Or the UI may allow for the user dealer to select the vehicle from a list of available vehicles. UI may also include a plurality of proposed vehicle transaction input fields which define attributes parameters associated with the proposed financial lease pertaining to the proposed vehicle. Inputs into input fields and are subsequently used in determining the specifics of the lease proposal that is presented to the prospective customer.

Customer marketing module also includes proposal determining logic that is operable to determine sales or lease proposals for the proposed vehicles based on the inputs received at UIs . In this regard proposal determining logic may include prospective customer logic operable for determining a group of prospective customers from an internal or external database of customers based on inputs at UI . Proposal determination logic may additionally include sales proposal logic operable for determining specific attributes of a sales proposal based on inputs at UI . Additionally proposal determination logic may additionally include lease proposal logic operable for determining specific attributes of a lease proposal based on inputs at UI .

Customer marketing module may also include proposed transaction reporting logic operable to generate and communicate a proposed sales or proposed lease report that details the targeted and customized sales or lease proposal. In this regard proposed transaction reporting logic may include proposed sales lease report generator operable to generate the sales and or lease reports and proposed sales lease report communicator operable to communicate the reports electronically to a plurality of designated recipients such as sales associates.

The customer marketing module may also include mapping demographic logic operable to connect with external map databases such as Google Maps or the like to retrieve maps and produce maps with customer demographics data such as location of customers and the like.

In further embodiments the customer marketing module may also include statistics logic operable to determine statistical data related to previous sales leases and or currently proposed sales leases and or service related data. The statistics logic may generate statistics that are displayable through display logic and or communicable via email engine text engine or the like. Statistical data related to previous sales leases may include but is not limited to sales leases per month of a vehicle type sales per loan maturity year leases per lease maturity year sales leases per geographical area and the like. Statistical data related to service related data may include but is not limited to quantity serviced per vehicle type quantity of proposed sales lease proposals per serviced vehicle type quantity of pending service appointments per date quantity of proposed sales lease proposals per date quantity of vehicles with no service history quantity and vehicle type of vehicles serviced with no sales history and the like.

Additionally the customer marketing module may also include an email engine and or text engine that is operable for generating internal email texts and external email texts associated with the customer marketing module . Examples of internal email texts may include email texts that include the sales or lease reports and email texts that include sales related task lists associated with the sales or lease reports such as contact responsibilities and the like. Examples of external emails texts may include customer emails texts that include the targeted and customized sales or lease proposal and third party affiliate emails texts such as a financial institution lender that notifies the third party of the identified targeted and customized sales or lease proposal. In the third party affiliate scenario the information provided to the third party affiliate may be used to provide the proposals to the customers via third party affiliate advertising such as bank loan statement advertising or the like. Customer marketing module may additionally include letter generator editor that is operable to create and edit customer letters which are to be communicated to a prospective client according to predetermined guidelines.

Display logic is also in communication with report logic and mapping demographic logic . Report logic is operable to receive proposals from proposal determination logic and generate sales and or lease reports based on the determined proposals. The reports may be displayed via display logic or the reports may be communicated electronically via email engine to sales associates or the like. Mapping demographics logic is operable to create maps that include prospective customer demographic data such as the location of the customer and contact information. Mapping logic relies on generic map templates for creating the maps and as such is in communication with external data sources such as Google maps or the like for accessing and retrieving map templates. The maps generated by mapping demographics logic are operable to be displayed via display logic .

Proposal determining logic is in communication with internal Structured Query Language SQL database that is operable to sort and manipulate data for communication between all of the logic entities of the customer marketing module and the external data sources . The customer marketing module also includes letter generator editor in communication with the internal SQL database and operable to generate customer letters based on letter templates and proposed sales or lease proposals communicated from the proposal determination logic.

Referring to an example of a previous vehicle transaction identifier i.e. prospective customer identifier user interface UI included in the customer marketing module according to a present embodiment of the invention. The prospective customer identifier UI is displayed to the user dealer and is operable to receive user dealer inputs that define parameters for identifying one or more prospective customers. The fields shown in are by way of example only and thus other fields may be added to or deleted from the UI without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed. UI includes a customer database selection field that is operable to receive inputs that select or choose the database that is to be searched to identify the one or more prospective customers.

The databases that may be chosen from customer database selection field may be an internal or external sales lease database that includes previous sales lease customer information and details related to the previous customer transaction including but not limited to previous and or ongoing financial obligation i.e. loan or lease associated with the previous vehicle sale lease. Additionally the databases may include internal or external service databases that include listings of customer s having previous and or pending service appointments the vehicles associated with those scheduled appointments or the like. Also the databases may be third party databases such as financial institution databases or the like that include listings of customer s having ongoing vehicle financing loans established with the financial institution or the like.

In the illustrated embodiment of the customer database selection field provides for a drop down window that may display a plurality of database choices. For example the database choices may include different dealerships or business units within a company. Thus the customer database selection field may be configured in those instances in which the user dealer has access to multiple different customer databases.

It should be noted that in other instances in which the customer marketing module does not rely on a database to identify a group of prospective customers UI may be used to define the previous transaction financial terms for a prospective customer. In this instance the prospective customer may not be a previous sales or service customer but instead may be any prospective customer. For example if a customer that has had no prior relationship with the dealership contacts the dealership and makes it aware of the financial terms of the customer s previous transactions a sales associate or the like may enter that information manually into UI and proceed to UI for identification of a vehicle best suited for offering to the prospective customer and the identification of the financial terms of a proposal associated with the identified vehicle. In turn the customer marketing module may determine a proposal that will be extended to that particular customer and that particular customer only.

The UI includes previous vehicle and vehicle financial transaction parameters that are selected by the user dealer and serve as the match or search criteria for determining the group of prospective customers. Parameters may include but are not limited to vehicle product sale lease status field which provides for the user dealer to select between previous sale lease transactions for new vehicles pre owned vehicles other designated vehicles or all of the vehicles . Additionally parameters include a vehicle transaction contract type field which provides for the user dealer to select between previous contract types such as retail sales contracts lease contracts and all contracts .

Parameters also include current vehicle type parameters that include but are not limited to manufacturer field model field year field model number field and other attribute field such as body style or the like. Similar to the customer database selection field the vehicle parameter fields may provide for a drop down window for selecting a parameter from a drop down list or the field may require data entry such as the model number field . The drop down lists may be presented based on a subsequent selection for example selection of a vehicle manufacturer may dictate which model drop down list appears and the selection of the model may dictate which year drop down lists appears.

Additionally parameters may include an email address field which provides for the user dealer to select whether the group of prospective customers includes an email address in the database. As discussed in detail infra. an email address is beneficial for those embodiments of the invention in which the customer marketing module includes a routine for automatically generating and initiating the communication of emails that include the vehicle proposal. The email address field may include a drop down window that allows the user dealer to choose between those customers having an email address those customers not having an email address and all customers.

Previous vehicle and vehicle transaction parameters also include current vehicle transaction parameters . The previous transaction parameters include a salesperson field for identifying the salesperson associated with the previous sales lease transaction a finance manager field for identifying the finance manager associated with the previous sales lease transaction a customer name field for limiting the prospective customers to one specific previous customer a zip code field for identifying a specific zip code for previous sales leases and a transaction year field for identifying the year in which the previous transaction transpired.

Additionally previous vehicle and vehicle financial transaction parameters include current vehicle financial obligation parameters . The financial obligation parameters include the minimum and maximum finance interest rate fields and that allow the user dealer to identify a maximum and or minimum finance interest rate for the previous vehicle transactions the minimum and maximum monthly payment fields and that allow the user dealer to identify maximum maximum and or range of monthly payment amounts for previously financed transactions the minimum and maximum finance term fields and that allow the user dealer to identify the minimum and or maximum range of finance terms and the minimum and maximum money factor fields and that allow the user dealer to identify the minimum and or maximum lease contract money factor. Financial obligation parameters may also include a last payment year field that allows the user dealer to identify a year for which the last payment is due in outstanding finance obligations.

The previous vehicle transaction identifier prospective customer identifier UI also includes a search key operable to be engaged by the user dealer to initiate the search from the selected customer database for the one or more prospective customers that meet the criteria as defined by the previous vehicle and vehicle financial transaction parameters which the user dealer has selected to input. As noted only one or more parameters need to be inputted in order for the search process to identify a group of prospective customers. Additionally the previous vehicle transaction identifier prospective customer identifier UI also includes a clear key operable to be engaged to clear all of the fields on the UI in order to conduct a further search of prospective customers.

Referring to a schematic example of a group of prospective customers User Interface UI is shown in accordance with another present embodiment of the invention. The display panel may be displayed upon engaging the search key in the previous vehicle transaction identifier prospective customer identifier UI shown in . The UI includes a listing of prospective customers based on the customers meeting the criteria defined in the previous vehicle transaction identifier prospective customer identifier UI . The display panel may include customer number field s for displaying one or more assigned customer numbers customer name fields for displaying a first last and other name associated with the customer a FED contact field for identifying the customer as being contactable under the federal telemarketing harassment laws a last contact date field for indicating the last date that the prospective customer was contacted solicited an email address filed for identifying the customer s known email address and telephone number fields for identifying one or more telephone numbers associated with the customer.

The display panel may also include proposal information fields for identifying specifics related to the vehicle proposal proposed vehicle information fields for identifying the make model year etc. of the proposed vehicle being offered current financial transaction fields for indicating the specifics related to the current ongoing financial transaction obligations and current vehicle information fields for indicating the make model year etc. of the current customer vehicle. In accordance with certain embodiments the fields depicted in UI may be sortable fields such that clicking on or otherwise activating the field title provides for a sort listed within that particular field.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an example of a retail sales vehicle selection and sales parameter identifier User Interface UI included in the customer marketing module according to a present embodiment of the invention . . . . The UI includes a sales key a lease key and an equity key for the user dealer to select between sales vehicle selection lease vehicle selection and equity UIs. In the illustrated embodiment of the user dealer has engaged the sales key to display the associated retail sales vehicle selection and sales transaction parameter identifier UI . The fields shown in are by way of example only and thus other fields may be added to or deleted from the UI without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

The UI includes vehicle parameters that provide entry fields for identifying the vehicle that the user dealer desires to proposal to the group of prospective customers. The vehicle parameters may include but are not limited to a manufacturer field a model field a year field a model number field and other attribute field such as a body type field or the like. The vehicle parameter fields may provide for a drop down window for selecting a parameter for drop down list or the field may require data entry such as the model number field . The drop down lists may be presented based on a subsequent selection for example selection of a vehicle manufacturer may dictate which model drop down list appears and the selection of the model may dictate which year drop down lists appears. In addition vehicle parameters may include a choose new vehicle key that is operable to be engaged to display a listing of new vehicles currently available from the dealership from the dealership network and or from the entire manufacturer base of dealerships and a pre owned vehicle key that is operable to be engaged to display a listing of pre owned vehicles currently available from the dealership the dealership network and or from the entire manufacturer base of dealerships.

The UI also includes proposed retail sales transaction variable parameters . The proposed transaction parameters include sales price field to provide for the user dealer to input a desired sale price finance interest rate field to provide for the user dealer to input a current vehicle program interest rate term field to provide for the user dealer to input a current vehicle program term a minimum profit field that allows for the user dealer to input a desired profit amount on the sale of the proposed vehicle and a manufacturer incentive field that allows the user dealer to input the vehicle incentive program currently being offered.

The UI may also include a ballpark estimated monthly payment indicator that displays a calculated monthly payment estimate based on inputted data such as sales price finance rate and term data entered in the proposed transaction parameter fields. Additionally UI may include a book value selector that allows the user dealer to select the book value type to use in determining the market value of the prospective customers current vehicle. The book value selector may be in the form of a drop down window that displays all available book value options and allows the user dealer to select from the displayed options.

UI may also include prospective customer transaction variable parameters . The prospective customer transaction variable parameters may include but are not limited to a variance amount above below the current monthly payment amount field that allows for the user dealer to define an amount below above the current monthly amount that the identified prospective customers may find acceptable. Additionally parameters may include a check box for indicating whether a prospective customer requires positive equity i.e. sales trade in value exceeds the amount owed to be further considered as prospective customer to which the proposal will be offered. If check box is engaged minimum equity field allows for the user dealer to define the minimum equity that the prospective customer must have in the current vehicle. It should be noted that the prospective customer transaction variable parameters define further criteria for prospective customer inclusion in the group of prospective customers to which the proposal will be offered to. Thus the search of prospective customers that results from the prospective customer identifier UI may be further limited based on the user dealer defined prospective customer variable parameters .

Additionally UI may optionally include a Loan To Value LTV program parameters . The LTV program parameters may include but are not limited to the financial institution field that allows for the user dealer to input a financial institution name and a LTV program name field that allow for the user dealer to input a LTV program name. Alternatively the LTV program parameters may include an LTV program choose key operable to be engaged by the user dealer to provide for a listing of LTV programs to choose from.

UI also includes a process key that may be engaged by the user dealer after all of the desired fields in UI have inputs. The process key will initiate the determination of the sales proposal for each of the prospective customers in the identified group. The determination process may include automatically determining the book value of the current vehicle of the prospective customer determining an estimated payoff amount for the current prospective customer s vehicle determining estimated sales taxes determining an estimated financed amount and determining an estimated monthly payment. Once the determinations have been completed and a proposal determined for each of the prospective customers a report is generated for each of the prospective customers that includes the sales proposal. The clear key allows the user dealer to clear all of the fields in UI to initiate new search criteria for a proposed vehicle sale.

It should be noted that while the customer marketing module generally implements UI in conjunction with UI to identify prospective customers to target for vehicle proposals identify the vehicle to offer those prospective customers and the terms of the new proposal it is possible and within the inventive concepts herein disclosed to implement UI for the sole purpose of identifying or locating a specific vehicle and the terms associated with a proposal for the vehicle. For example if the customer has no prior relationship with the dealership or the customer has no outstanding financial obligation on their current vehicle the user dealership may desire to use the vehicle identification aspect of the customer marketing module to locate a vehicle desired by the customer and to identify the terms of a financial proposal associated with the located vehicle. Such implementation of UI and the concept of vehicle identification are especially suited in instances in which the customer marketing module is used across multiple dealerships or an entire manufacturer such that the vehicles in the database extend beyond just one dealership.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an example of a lease vehicle selection and lease transaction parameter identifier User Interface UI included in the customer marketing module according to a present embodiment of the invention. The UI includes a sale key a lease key and an equity key for the user dealer to select between sale vehicle selection lease vehicle selection and equity. In the illustrated embodiment of the user dealer has engaged the lease key to display the associated lease vehicle selection and lease transaction parameter identifier UI . The fields shown in are by way of example only and thus other fields may be added to or deleted from the UI without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

The UI includes vehicle parameters that provide entry fields for identifying the vehicle that the user dealer desires to propose to the group of prospective customers. The vehicle parameters may include but are not limited to a manufacturer field a model field a year field a model number field and other attribute field such as a body type field or the like. The vehicle parameter fields may provide for a drop down window for selecting a parameter for drop down list or the field may require data entry such as the model number field . The drop down lists may be presented based on a subsequent selection for example selection of a vehicle manufacturer may dictate which model drop down list appears and the selection of the model may dictate which year drop down lists appears. In addition vehicle parameters may include a choose vehicle key that is operable to be engaged to display a listing of vehicles currently available from the dealership from the dealership network or from the entire manufacturer base of dealerships.

The UI also includes proposed lease transaction variable parameters . The proposed lease transaction parameters include a manufacturer s suggested retail price MSRP field to provide for the user dealer to input the MSRP a base cap cost field to provide for the user dealer to input the actual sale price proposed to retail customers a minimum profit field to provide for the user dealer to input desired minimum profit for the dealership for the lease period an acquisition fee field that allows for the user dealer to input the acquisition cost associated with the proposed lease vehicle and a manufacturer incentive field that allows the user dealer to input the vehicle incentive program currently being proposed. The proposed lease transaction variable parameters also include a cash down field that allows the user dealer any customer cash needed for the lease a tax title and documentation field that allows the user dealer to input or alternatively automatically display the tax title and documentation fees associated with the proposed lease vehicle and the adjusted cap cost field that displays a calculated cap cost based on other inputted proposed lease transaction parameters. In alternative embodiments the title documentation and or tax may be listed in individual fields.

The proposed lease transaction variable parameters may also include residual percentage field that allows the user dealer to input a residual percentage that represents the residual value of the proposed vehicle after the completion of the lease term. The residual field displays the residual value of the proposed lease vehicle. Parameters also include term field that allows the user dealer to input a lease contract term and money factor percentage field that allows the user dealer to input the money factor percentage associated with the lease contract. The money factor field displays the actual money factor used in the lease contract. Money factor is the alternative means of presenting the amount of interest charged on a lease with monthly payments.

The UI may also include a ballpark estimated monthly payment indicator that displays a calculated monthly payment estimate based on inputted data such as Manufacturer s Suggested Retail Price MSRP residual rate payment term money factor and the like the proposed lease transaction parameter fields. Additionally UI may include a book value selector that allows the user dealer to select the book value type to use in determining the market value of the prospective customers current vehicle. The book value selector may be in the form of a drop down window that displays all available book value options and allows the user dealer to select from the displayed options.

UI may also include prospective leasee customer transaction variable parameters . The lessee variable transaction parameters may include but are not limited to a variance amount above below the current monthly payment amount field that allows for the user dealer to define an amount below above the current monthly amount that the group of prospective customers may find acceptable. Additionally parameters may include a check box for indicating whether a prospective customer requires positive equity to be further considered as prospective customer to which the proposal will be offered. If check box is engaged minimum equity field allows for the user dealer to define the minimum equity that the prospective customer must have in the current vehicle. It should be noted that the prospective customer transaction variable parameters define further criteria for prospective customer inclusion in the group of prospective customers to which the proposal will be made. Thus the search of prospective customers that results from the prospective customer identifier UI may be further limited based on the user dealer defined prospective customer variable parameters .

Additionally UI may optionally include a Loan To Value LTV program parameters . The LTV program parameters may include but are not limited to the financial institution field that allows for the user dealer to input a financial institution name and a LTV program name field that allow for the user dealer to input a LTV program name. Alternatively the LTV program parameters may include an LTV program choose key operable to be engaged by the user dealer to provide for a listing of LTV programs to choose from.

UI also includes a process key that may be engaged by the user dealer after all of the desired fields in UI have inputs. The process key will initiate the determination of the sales proposal for each of the prospective customers in the identified group. The determination process may include automatically determining the book value of the current vehicle of the prospective customer determining an estimated monthly finance charge determine a proposed finance charge determine total sales tax determine an estimated monthly depreciation charge and determine and set the lease turn in alert. Once the determinations have been completed and a proposal determined for each of the prospective customers a report is generated for each of the prospective customers that includes the lease proposal. The clear key allows the user dealer to clear all of the fields in UI for the purpose of inputting new search criteria into fields shown in UI .

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an example of an equity vehicle selection User Interface UI included in the customer marketing module according to a present embodiment of the invention. The UI includes a sale key a lease key and an equity key for the user dealer to select between sale vehicle selection lease vehicle selection and equity. In the illustrated embodiment of the user dealer has engaged the equity key to display the associated equity vehicle selection UI . The equity vehicle selection UI provides for vehicle proposals absent a previous sale lease and or ongoing financial obligation with the dealership. The fields shown in are by way of example only and thus other fields may be added to or deleted from the UI without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

UI includes a book value selector that allows the user dealer to select the book value type to use in determining the market value of the prospective customers current vehicle. The book value selector may be in the form of a drop down window that displays all available book value options and allows the user dealer to select from the displayed options.

UI may include a check box for indicating whether a prospective customer requires positive equity to be further considered as prospective customer to which the proposal will be offered. If check box is engaged minimum equity field allows for the user dealer to define the minimum equity that the prospective customer must have in the current vehicle. Payoff greater than field allows for the user dealer to input an amount for which the payoff must greater than

UI may optionally include a Loan To Value LTV program parameters . The LTV program parameters may include but are not limited to the financial institution field that allows for the user dealer to input a financial institution name and a LTV program name field that allow for the user dealer to input a LTV program name. Parameters may also include a check box for indicating whether a prospective customer requires positive equity to be further considered for a LTV program. If check box is engaged minimum equity field allows for the user dealer to define the minimum equity that the prospective customer must have in the current vehicle. Alternatively the LTV program parameters may include an LTV program choose key operable to be engaged by the user dealer to provide for a listing of LTV programs to choose from.

Additionally UI includes a process key that may be engaged by the user dealer after all of the desired fields in UI have inputs. The process key will initiate the determination of the sales proposal for the prospective customer. The determination process may include automatically determining.

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a retail sales report generated as a result of determining a targeted and customized sales proposal for a prospective customer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The retail sales report is generally used for internal purposes and therefore may be limited in distribution to sales personnel and other employees of the dealership. Information found in the retail report will form the basis for the information presented in the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer. As previously noted the proposal to the prospective customer may take the form of an electronic proposal such as an email proposal a text proposal or the like a mail proposal a telephone proposal and or an in person proposal.

The retail report may include a proposal qualification status indicator that indicates the qualification status of the customer based on predetermined qualification criteria. For example in one embodiment the qualification status indicator may indicator that a customer is a hot qualifier medium qualifier or cold qualifier based on the predetermined qualification criteria.

The report also includes customer information that identifies the customer and contact information associated with the customer. For example the customer information may include but is not limited to a name an address telephone numbers an email address a customer number associated with a previous vehicle transaction and any other information such other electronic communication addresses number of previous new and or pre owned purchases leases with the dealership amount of previous purchases leases previous vehicle services at the dealership amount of the services or the like. The customer information may also include the federal contact status which indicates if the customer currently has do not call status. The available contact information for any one prospective customer may form the basis for determining which means is used to communicate the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer.

In the instance in which the sales report is generated for a service customer the other information may include but is not limited to the pending service appointment number the service appointment date the service appointment time the name of the service appointment advisor or the like

The retail report may also include information related to the previous ongoing financial transaction contract associated with the prospective customers current vehicle. This information may include current vehicle information such as the new pre owned status make model year model number body type Vehicle Identification Number VIN and the estimated miles on the vehicle or the like a transaction number associated with the previous vehicle transaction a financial institution that is carrying the current financial obligation and a salesperson and or financing manager involved in the previous vehicle transaction. The information may also include transaction information such as but not limited to the sale price the amount of the sale price financed the term of the loan the finance rate of the loan and the monthly payment for the loan. Additionally information may also include current vehicle value information such as the book value used and the determined book value amount . The previous ongoing financial transaction contract information may also include an estimated payoff and a last payment due date . The estimated payoff amount is determined as part of the vehicle proposal determination and is based on the current term the finance rate the amount financed and the number of estimated payments made since the inception of the sales contract.

The retail report also includes information related to the vehicle proposal offer. The vehicle proposal information may include vehicle information such as the make model year model number body style or the like the proposed sale price dealer incentive the document fees the title fee the license fee and the taxes . The vehicle proposal information may also include the minimum profit desired by the dealer the current monthly payment and the proposed monthly payment amount that is calculated as part of the determination of the vehicle proposal and is based on the proposed finance amount the term of the loan and the finance rate. Additionally information may include finance amount which may also be determined as part of the determination of the vehicle proposal and is based on sale price minimum desired profit estimated payoff amount dealer incentives book value of the current vehicle and tax title license and documentation fees. Thus the vehicle proposal information may also include the LTV institution and percentage the finance rate the proposed term and the variance amount above the current monthly payment .

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of a lease report generated as a result of determining a targeted and customized lease proposal for a prospective customer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The lease report is generally used for internal purposes and therefore may be limited in distribution to sales personnel and other employees of the dealership. Information found in the lease report will form the basis for the information presented in the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer. As previously noted the proposal to the prospective customer may take the form of an electronic proposal such as an email proposal a text proposal or the like a mail proposal a telephone proposal and or an in person proposal.

The lease report may a proposal qualification status indicator that indicates the qualification status of the customer based on predetermined qualification criteria. For example in one embodiment the qualification status indicator may indicator that a customer is a hot qualifier medium qualifier or cold qualifier based on the predetermined qualification criteria.

The lease report additionally includes customer information that identifies the customer and contact information associated with the customer. For example the customer information may include but is not limited to a name an address telephone numbers an email address a customer number associated with a previous vehicle transaction and any other information such other electronic communication addresses number of previous new and or pre owned purchases leases with the dealership amount of previous purchases leases previous vehicle services at the dealership amount of the services or the like. The customer information may also include the federal contact status which indicates if the customer currently has do not call status. The available contact information for any one prospective customer may form the basis for determining which means is used to communicate the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer.

The lease report may also include information related to the previous ongoing financial transaction contract associated with the prospective customers current vehicle. This information may include current vehicle information such as the make model year model number body type or the like a transaction number associated with the previous vehicle transaction a financial institution that is carrying the current financial obligation and a salesperson involved in the previous vehicle transaction. The information may also include transaction information such as but not limited to the lease price the term of the lease the net cap cost the money factor of the current lease and the monthly payment for the current lease. Additionally information may also include current vehicle value information such as the book value used the determined book value amount the current residual and the estimated residual amount . The previous ongoing financial transaction contract information may also include an estimated payoff and a last payment due date .

The lease report also includes information related to the vehicle proposal. The vehicle proposal information may include vehicle information such as the make model year model number body style or the like the proposed sale price and the taxes . The vehicle proposal information may also include the current monthly finance amount and proposed monthly finance amount that is calculated as part of the determination of the vehicle proposal and is based on the sum of the proposed vehicle monthly depreciation fee plus the monthly finance fee. Additionally information may include the net cap cost the proposed term the minimum profit desired by the dealer and the incentive associated with this lease. In addition the proposed vehicle proposal information may include variance amount above the current monthly payment

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an equity report generated as a result of determining equity for a prospective customer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The equity report is generally used for internal purposes and therefore may be limited in distribution to sales personnel and other employees of the dealership. Information found in the equity report will form the basis for the information presented in the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer. As previously noted the proposal to the prospective customer may take the form of an electronic proposal such as an email proposal a text proposal or the like a mail proposal a telephone proposal and or an in person proposal.

The equity report includes customer information that identifies the customer and contact information associated with the customer. For example the customer information may include but is not limited to a name an address telephone numbers an email address a customer number associated with a previous vehicle transaction and any other information such other electronic communication addresses number of previous new and or pre owned purchases leases with the dealership amount of previous purchases leases previous vehicle services at the dealership amount of the services last payment date or the like. The customer information may also include the federal contact status which indicates if the customer currently has do not call status. The available contact information for any one prospective customer may form the basis for determining which means is used to communicate the vehicle proposal to the prospective customer.

The equity report may also include information related to the previous financial transaction contract associated with the prospective customer s current vehicle. This information may include current vehicle information such as the new pre owned status make model year model number body type Vehicle Identification Number VIN and the estimated miles on the vehicle or the like a transaction number associated with the previous vehicle transaction a financial institution that is carrying the current financial obligation and a salesperson and or financing manager involved in the previous vehicle transaction. The information may also include transaction information such as but not limited to the sale price the amount of the sale price financed the term of the loan the finance rate of the loan and the monthly payment for the loan. Additionally information may also include current vehicle value information such as the book value used and the determined book value amount . The previous ongoing financial transaction contract information may also include an estimated payoff and a last payment due date . The estimated payoff amount is determined as part of the vehicle proposal determination and is based on the current term the finance rate the amount financed and the number of estimated payments made since the inception of the sales contract.

The equity report additionally includes equity information which includes a front amount a back amount a total amount and an estimated equity amount .

Referring to a block diagram is illustrated that depicts an example of a joint proposal report and prospective customer communication history User Interface UI in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. One portion of the UI may include a depiction of the retail report lease report or equity report shown in and respectively.

Another portion of UI includes the prospective customer proposal communication mechanism and history . Input key provides for automatically generating and communicating an email message to the prospective customer that includes the proposal or portions of the proposal detailed in the report or shown in UI . Likewise input key provides for automatically generating and communicating a text Short Message Service SMS to the prospective customer that includes the proposal or portions of the proposal detailed in the report or shown in UI . It should be noted that UI may include other input keys for automatically generating and communicating other forms of known or future known electronic communication. Additionally in specific embodiments the input keys or may only be displayed or configured to be activated if the prospective customer has previously affirmatively agreed to be contacted by the user dealer for the purpose of providing such proposals. In other embodiments the input keys and may only be displayed or configured to be activated if the prospective customer has not previously received a proposal communication within a predetermined time period. For example the marketing module may be configured to only allow a proposal to be communicated once every thirty days. Thus if a proposal has been communicated within the previous 30 days either the input keys will not be displayed in UI or the input keys may not be activated.

Additionally the prospective customer proposal communication mechanism and history portion of UI includes history field that displays the communication history for the prospective customer. The UI may be configured to automatically create and display an entry in history field upon engaging either the send email input key or the send text input key . In other embodiments the user may be tasked with creating entries in the history field based on activating input key or or communicating the proposal to the prospective customer in another manner such via postal mail telephone call face to face or the like. Additionally in those embodiments in which the input keys and are not restricted in use based on previous proposal communication entries in the history field may serve the basis for making a decision on providing a further proposal communication. In those embodiments in which the history entry is not generated automatically or if the automated entry requires further information a user may implement input fields and to supply the requisite and or additional information. Input field provides for entry of the user sales associate name input field provides for entry of the date of the communication and input field provides for entry of comments related to the communication proposal.

Turning the reader s attention to a flow diagram is presented of a method for generating vehicle proposals in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At Event an input is received at a predetermined UI such as the UI discussed in relation to to select a database for the searching of prospective customers. The selected database may be associated with a specific dealership business unit a grouping of dealership business units a manufacturer or the like. In one embodiment the selected database is further defined as a previous customer database such that prospective customers come from a pool of previous purchase lease and or service customers.

At Event input s are received typically at the same predetermined UI associated with Event which selects one or more vehicle type parameters for the vehicle currently owned leased by the prospective customers. The current vehicle type parameters may include but are not limited to make model year model number body type and the like. By selecting one or more current vehicle type parameters the prospective customer search is limited to those customers currently under a financial obligation e.g. a loan or a lease associated with the selected type of vehicle. For example if the user dealer selects Make Honda Model Accord and Year 2006 the prospective customer search is limited to those prospective customers currently having a financial obligation associated with a 2006 Honda Accord.

At Event input s are received typically at the same predetermined UI associated with Events and that selects one or more current or ongoing financial obligation parameters. Financial obligation parameters may include but are not limited to a minimum and or maximum finance rate a minimum and or maximum monthly payment amount the year the financial obligation started the year the financial obligation is due to end a minimum payment term a maximum payment term a minimum money factor a maximum money factor and the salesperson associated with the previous vehicle transaction. In this regard by selecting one or more financial obligation parameters the prospective customer search is limited to those customers currently under a financial obligation meeting the selected financial obligation criteria. It should be noted that in certain embodiments only Event or Event needs to occur. In other words the user dealer may only limit the search of prospective customers based on vehicle type or current financial obligation parameters as opposed to limiting the search for prospective customers based on both vehicle type and current financial obligation parameters.

At Event an input is received to search the selected database for prospective customers based on the selected vehicle type parameters and or selected previous financial obligation parameters. At Event based on the input at Event a determination is made as to which customers match or meet the selected vehicle type criteria and or selected previous financial obligation parameters. Those customers that meet or match the selected vehicle type criteria and or selected previous financial obligation parameters form a group of prospective customers that may be targeted for customized marketing of a vehicle proposal. At optional Event a listing of the customers that match or meet the selected vehicle type criteria and or selected previous financial obligation parameters may be displayed. An example of the formatting of a customer listing panel is shown and described in relation to .

At Event input s are received at a predetermined UI such as the UIs discussed in relation to and or that select one or more proposed vehicle type parameters. The proposed vehicle is the vehicle that the user dealer desires to propose for sale or lease to the group of prospective customers and is the vehicle for which the user dealer is determining a customized vehicle proposal for each of the prospective customers. The proposed vehicle type parameters may include but are not limited to make model year model number body type and the like. Alternatively the user dealer may choose to select the proposed vehicle from a listing of available vehicles.

At Event input s are received typically at the same predetermined UI associated with Event that select or define one or more proposed vehicle transaction parameters. The selected or defined proposed vehicle transaction parameters will differ depending on whether the proposal is being structured as a sale or as a lease. For a sale the vehicle transaction parameters may include but are not limited to a desired sale price current financial rate being offered a payment term a minimum desired profit on the sale a manufacturer incentive associated with the sale a variance amount above the current payment amount and a minimum equity position associated with the current vehicle. For a lease the vehicle transaction parameters may include but are not limited to a Manufacturer s Selected Retail Price MSRP a base cap cost a minimum desired profit on the lease acquisition fees a minimum cash down amount a residual rate a term of lease money factor a variance amount above the current payment amount and or a minimum equity position associated with the current vehicle. It should be noted that selection of the vehicle and selection of certain variable vehicle transaction parameters such as the variance amount above the current payment amount and the minimum equity position associated with the current vehicle will further limit the group of prospective customers that will be targeted with a customized vehicle proposal.

At optional Event a proposed monthly payment estimate is determined and optionally displayed on the UI for the purpose of making the user dealer aware of what the monthly payment is estimated based on other parameters for the proposed vehicle that will be offered to the prospective customers. The proposed monthly payment estimate is determined based on information selected or defined at Event such as for a sale sales price finance rate and term and for a lease residual term and money factor along with a calculated adjusted cap cost.

At Event an input is received typically at the same predetermined UI associated with Event which selects a book value to be used in determining the market value of the prospective customer s current vehicle. The estimated market value of the customer s current vehicle will be determined during the process that determines the customized vehicle proposal for each of the prospective customers.

At Event an input is received typically at the same predetermined UI associated with Event to process the vehicle proposal for each of the identified prospective customers. At Event a customer vehicle market value and or data effecting vehicle market value is retrieved from an external database such as BlackBook CarFax or the like for each of the prospective customers. The customer vehicle market value may be based on the selected book value Event and any other retrieved information such as service information that may indicate recent mileage on the vehicle or the like. The customer vehicle market value is subsequently used to determine the vehicle proposal that will be offered to each of the prospective customers.

At Event a vehicle proposal is determined for each of prospective customers. The flow diagram of discussed infra. describes an exemplary vehicle sales proposal determination process and the flow diagram of discussed infra. describes an exemplary vehicle lease proposal determination process. At Event based on the determination of vehicle proposals vehicle proposal reports are generated for each of the prospective customers. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the vehicle proposal reports may be automatically electronically communicated to designated individuals salespeople within the sales company. In addition the system may provide for automatically generating and electronically communicating via e mail text message or the like the proposed offer to each of the prospective customers that have an address or number associated with an electronic delivery mechanism. In other embodiments the system may provide for generating prospective customer letters through use of a letter template that include the proposal and that are subsequently communicated to the prospective customer via postal service or the like.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for determining a targeted and customized retail sales proposal for identified prospective customers in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The events herein described in relation to are performed for each identified prospective customer so as to create customized sales proposals for each of the identified prospective customers. At Event an estimated payoff on the current vehicle is determined based on the current customer term the finance rate of the ongoing financial obligation the amount financed and the number of estimated payments made since the contract data. At Event taxes are determined for the proposed vehicle sale. The determined taxes are based on the sales price of the vehicle the vehicle market book value and the state sales tax rate. The result of the determination may then be checked to see if it is within the customer s state tax allowable limits. If the determined tax is higher than the maximum allowable tax the maximum allowable tax will be used in the proposal as the vehicle tax.

At Event an estimated finance amount for the proposed vehicle is determined. The estimated finance amount is based on information inputted by the user dealer related to the proposed vehicle transaction parameters. This information includes the desired sales price the minimum profit on the sale the calculated estimate payoff on the current vehicle Event the manufacture s incentive the book value of the current vehicle and the taxes title license and documentation fees associated with the proposed vehicle.

At Event an estimated monthly payment is determined based on determined estimated finance amount Event the identified term of the loan and the finance rate of the loan.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for determining a targeted and customized lease proposal for identified prospective customers in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The events herein described in relation to are performed for each identified prospective customer so as to create customized lease proposals for each of the identified prospective customers. At Event a total sales tax is determined for the proposed vehicle based on the MSRP price of the vehicle the vehicle market book value and the state sales tax rate. The result of the determination may then be checked to see if it is within the customer s state tax allowable limits. If the determined tax is higher than the maximum allowable tax the maximum allowable tax will be used in the proposal as the vehicle tax.

At Event an estimated monthly finance charge is determined. The estimated monthly finance charge is based on the proposed financed amount proposed residual value term and money factor. The monthly finance charge is calculated as the sum of the proposed vehicle monthly depreciation fee plus the monthly finance fee. It should be noted that this calculation does not take into account sales taxes. The monthly depreciation fee is calculated as the proposed finance amount adjusted cap cost item of minus the variable proposed residual item of divided by the lease term item of . The monthly finance fee is calculated as the proposed financed amount adjusted cap cost item of plus the proposed vehicle residual item of multiplied by the money factor amount item of .

At Event a proposed finance charge is determined based on the calculated estimated monthly charge Event and the term of the lease. At Event a proposed monthly depreciation charge is determined based on the proposed depreciation i.e. the residual amount and the term of the lease. The monthly depreciation fee is calculated as the proposed finance amount adjusted cap cost item of minus the variable proposed residual item of divided by the lease term item of .

At Event a lease turn in alert is determined. The lease turn in alert is based on the estimated payoff amount and the estimated money owed. The turn in warning is activated when the estimated money owed is less than the negative equity i.e. the payoff amount minus the vehicle market value .

Thus present embodiments provide for methods apparatus and computer program products for targeted and customized marketing to vehicle customers and specifically in some embodiments vehicle customers having a previous relationship with the dealership or manufacturer implementing the marketing campaign. The embodiments of the invention herein disclosed provide for efficient identification of previous customers based on their current vehicle and or their previous and in some instances ongoing financial obligation related to the current vehicle. A new or pre owned vehicle is identified and a financial transaction proposal such as a sales or lease proposal is generated for one or more of the identified previous customers based on customers meeting criteria associated with variable parameters of the proposed transaction.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

