---

title: Serpentine touch sensor pattern
abstract: A capacitive sensor array may include a first sensor element of a first plurality of sensor elements, and a second sensor element. The second sensor element may include a plurality of subelements, where each of the plurality of subelements is connected to at least another of the plurality of subelements by one of a plurality of connecting traces. A width of each of the connecting traces may be less than a width of any of the plurality of subelements. Connecting traces in a subset of the plurality of connecting traces may be staggered about a central axis of the second sensor element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08410795&OS=08410795&RS=08410795
owner: Cypress Semiconductor Corporation
number: 08410795
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120713
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 548 125 filed on Jul. 12 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 612 146 filed on Mar. 16 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to trace patterns of elements in capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor elements that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

An embodiment of a capacitive touch sensor pattern may be constructed from a single patterned layer of conductive material and may have a trace geometry that minimizes signal disparity without the use of excessive metal bridges.

In one embodiment such a capacitive touch sensor pattern may include two sets of intersecting sensor elements where each sensor element in a first set intersects each sensor element of the other set. One set of sensor elements may be used as transmit TX electrodes while the other set of sensor elements is used as receive RX electrodes in a mutual capacitance sensing system. In an alternative embodiment the sensor elements may be used in a self capacitance sensing system. In one embodiment each sensor element in at least one of the sets of sensor elements may include several subelements connected together by a number of connecting traces. In one embodiment some of the connecting traces may be staggered about a longitudinal central axis of the sensor element such that a path of the sensor element alternates directions on either side of the longitudinal central axis to form a snake like or serpentine pattern. In one embodiment only one of the TX and RX sets of sensor elements may have this serpentine pattern alternatively both of the TX and RX sets of sensor elements have a serpentine pattern.

In one embodiment both TX and RX sets of sensor elements may be constructed using a single patterned layer of conductive material with bridges used to join sections of the sensor elements that are separated at intersections between the TX and RX pairs. In an alternative embodiment the TX and RX sets of sensor element may each be constructed from a separate patterned layer of conductive material such that bridges are not needed.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor elements N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor element N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor element detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor elements arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor elements of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor elements of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor elements while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor element and a conductive object near the sensor element. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

In one embodiment capacitive sensor array may be constructed by printing etching depositing or otherwise placing conductive material onto a substrate. For example the sensor array pattern may be constructed from Indium Tin Oxide ITO or some other conductive material deposited onto a transparent substrate such as glass to create a transparent touch sensing surface.

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array is constructed from a single layer of conductive material such as copper or ITO and bridges of conductive material are used to join portions of row sensor elements where they intersect with column sensor elements. Alternatively the bridges may be used to join portions of column sensor elements where they intersect with row sensor elements.

In an alternative embodiment the capacitive sensor array may be constructed from more than one layer of conductive material. For example the sensor array may be constructed from two different layers of conductive material with one layer for row sensor elements and another layer for column sensor elements. In such an embodiment where two or more layers are used intersections may be formed between sensor elements where the layers overlap without using bridges.

With reference to the capacitive sensor array may include two sets of sensor elements with one set of row sensor elements and another set of column sensor elements. In one embodiment row sensor elements may be used as transmit TX sensor elements and column sensor elements may be used as receive RX sensor elements in a mutual capacitance sensing system.

Each row sensor element is associated with a row of unit cells and each column sensor element is associated with a column of unit cells. Each unit cell is associated with a unique pair of a row sensor element and a column sensor element. For example the unit cell is associated with row sensor element and column sensor element . In one embodiment each point within the boundaries of each unit cell is nearest to a gap between the pair of sensor element associated with the unit cell than to a gap between any other pair of sensor elements. For example each point within the unit cell is nearer to a gap between the associated pair of sensor elements and than to a gap between any other pair of sensor elements.

In one embodiment each of the plurality of non serpentine column sensor elements may include a plurality of diamond shaped subelements electrically connected to each other by connecting traces. In one embodiment each of the diamond shaped subelements may be wider than any of the connecting traces. In one embodiment the connecting traces may run in parallel along a long axis of the column sensor element. In one embodiment such an arrangement may result in a plurality of possible current paths from one end of the sensor element to the other.

Similar to the column sensor elements each of the row sensor elements may also include a plurality of diamond shaped subelements. With reference to the row sensor element includes diamond shaped subelements and which are electrically connected by connecting trace . Connecting traces and electrically connect subelements and respectively to other subelements of the row sensor element .

In one embodiment the widths of the subelements such as subelements and are greater than the widths of the connecting traces such as traces and . In one embodiment the widths of the subelements and connecting traces may be considered as being perpendicular to the shortest current path through the sensor element .

In one embodiment the connecting traces in a subset of the connecting traces are staggered about the central axis of the sensor element. For example connecting traces and represent a subset of the connecting traces in the unit cell and are staggered about the central axis of the row sensor element . In one embodiment other connecting traces in the unit cell such as connecting trace which is in between traces and along the path may be positioned on the central axis . In one embodiment the longitudinal central axis bisects the sensor element along the length of the sensor element and equally divides the width of the sensor element .

In one embodiment the unit cell may contain an equal number of subelements of the sensor element on either side of the central axis . For example the unit cell illustrated in includes two whole subelements and of sensor element and four halves of subelements of sensor element . These are arranged within the unit cell such that each side of central axis has one whole subelement and two halves of subelements.

In one embodiment the arrangement of subelements is symmetrical about the central axis . In an alternative embodiment the subelements may be arranged asymmetrically about the central axis . In one embodiment the arrangement of the connecting traces may be symmetrical or asymmetrical about the central axis . illustrates an asymmetrical arrangement of connecting traces.

In one embodiment the sensor element may include one or more connecting traces within the unit cell that have a longitudinal axis in a different direction than other connecting traces. For example connecting trace has a longitudinal axis that is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axes of connecting traces and .

In one embodiment a first sensor element may intersect a second sensor element at fewer than three intersections within the unit cell. For example with reference to the row sensor element intersects the column sensor element at two locations corresponding to connecting trace and connecting trace .

In one embodiment each of the row sensor elements may thus intersect each of the column sensor elements at two locations per unit cell. In one embodiment the two intersections per unit cell may be located on opposite sides of a central axis of the sensor element. For example connecting traces and are located on opposite sides of the central axis .

With reference to the area of the capacitive sensor array may be divided into a plurality of unit cells each associated with a particular TX RX pair of sensor elements. This plurality of unit cells may include for example a unit cell that includes an area associated with row sensor element and column sensor element . Each point within the unit cell may be nearer to a gap between sensor element and than to any gap between any other pair of sensor elements. The unit cell for a pair of sensor elements thus designates an area where the capacitive coupling between those sensor elements is the greatest.

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may have row and column sensor elements that intersect each other at a single intersection per unit cell. In one embodiment this single intersection may be located on a longitudinal central axis of one or both of the sensor elements. For example within unit cell row sensor element intersects column sensor element at the center of unit cell where a connecting trace of sensor element overlaps a connecting trace of sensor element . This intersection lies on the central axis of row sensor element and also lies on a central axis of column sensor element .

In an alternative embodiment the single intersection may be located away from the longitudinal central axis of one or both of the sensor elements. For example illustrates an embodiment of a unit cell of a capacitive sensor array where a serpentine row sensor element intersects with a column sensor element at connecting traces and away from either of the longitudinal central axes and of the sensor elements and . In one embodiment the non serpentine sensor element may include one or more terminal branches that branch away from a main trace. For example a terminal branch of the sensor element may include subelements and connected together by traces and . The terminal branch branches away from a main trace comprising subelements and traces and terminates at subelement .

Referring back to in one embodiment the unit cell may include a plurality of connecting traces that electrically connect the subelements of the same sensor element within the unit cell. The connecting traces in a subset of the plurality of connecting traces may be staggered so that they are located on opposite sides of a central axis of the sensor element.

For example unit cell includes a plurality of connecting traces that electrically connect a plurality of subelements of column sensor element . Similarly connecting traces electrically connect a plurality of subelements within the unit cell .

Thus for the row sensor element a subset of connecting traces including traces and may be staggered about the central axis so that they are located on opposite sides of the central axis of sensor element . In one embodiment the staggered traces and are also located on opposite sides of the central axis of the other sensor element . Similarly for the column sensor element a subset of connecting traces including traces and may be staggered about the central axis so that they are located on opposite sides of the central axis of sensor element .

In one embodiment another subset of connecting traces of each sensor element may be located along the longitudinal central axis for that sensor element. For example the connecting traces and of row sensor element are located along the central axis of the sensor element . Similarly the connecting traces and of column sensor element are located along the central axis of the sensor element .

In one embodiment the shortest current path through the sensor element passes through the subelements and the connecting traces in a particular sequence. The connecting traces may be numbered accordingly for example connecting traces and may correspond to the ordinal numbers and . Under this numbering system an embodiment may have odd numbered connecting traces that are parallel to each other and even numbered connecting traces that are parallel to each other. For example the connecting traces and are parallel to each other as illustrated in while the connecting traces and are parallel to each other.

In one embodiment each even numbered trace may be substantially perpendicular to each odd numbered trace. For example connecting trace may be substantially perpendicular to each of connecting traces and . In an alternative embodiment the even numbered connecting traces are not perpendicular to the odd numbered connecting traces.

In one embodiment each connecting trace is substantially perpendicular to the next nearest connecting trace of the same sensor element. For example connecting trace may be substantially perpendicular to each of the nearest connecting traces and .

As described herein the angle between connecting traces may be determined based on the longitudinal axes of the connecting traces perpendicular connecting traces may have longitudinal axes that are perpendicular while parallel connecting traces may have longitudinal axes that are parallel.

In alternative embodiments each connecting trace may be positioned at some other angle with respect to the previous connecting trace and the subsequent connecting trace. For example connecting trace may be positioned at an angle relative to the previous connecting trace and may be positioned at a different angle relative to the subsequent connecting trace .

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor elements and column sensor elements may be interchanged and row or column sensor elements may be used as either TX or RX sensor elements. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor elements may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor elements when both row and column sensor elements are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive elements that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive elements.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

