---

title: Dynamic directory control execution
abstract: Systems and methods for extending the capability of a directory processor by, for example, registering a control are presented. This control can be a non-native control, or a modification to a native control. Further, this disclosure describes example of systems and methods for performing a directory operation, which may include one or more controls. At least some of the one or more controls may be non-native or dynamic controls. In some cases, some of the controls may be native controls.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122718&OS=09122718&RS=09122718
owner: Dell Software Inc.
number: 09122718
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121220
---
This disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 617 471 filed Mar. 29 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC DIRECTORY CONTROLS the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In addition this disclosure is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 721 811 filed on Dec. 20 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC DIRECTORY CONTROL REGISTRATION the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of directories. More specifically the present disclosure relates to the registration and use of dynamic directory controls.

Many modern applications are designed to work with large quantities of data. Often this data can include a plethora of data entries that are similar in form but differ in content. For example a corporate address book may include thousands of entries with each entry including a name address phone number and e mail address. In many cases the data is stored as a directory.

Applications have been developed to help manage directories. Many of the directories and associated applications are based on set of protocols such as the X.500 protocol or the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP . These protocols may include a set of directory operations as part of the protocol definition. For example the protocol may specify a set of commands for updating data in the directory.

This disclosure describes examples of systems and methods for extending the capability of a directory processor by for example registering a control. This control can be a non native control or a modification to a native control. Further this disclosure describes examples of systems and methods for performing a directory operation which may include one or more controls. At least some of the one or more controls may be non native or dynamic controls. In some cases some of the controls may be native controls.

In some embodiments a method for performing a directory operation may be performed by a computing system comprising one or more processors. The method may include the system receiving at a directory processor a directory operation comprising a control. The system can determine whether the control is a registered control. In response to determining that the control is a registered control the system may identify a directory application configured to process the control. The system may provide the control to the directory application to process thereby enabling a directory operation to comprise one or more controls that the directory processor is not natively configured to execute. Further the system can execute the directory operation.

In certain implementations in response to determining that the control is a registered control the system removes the control from the directory operation. In some cases the control is removed from the directory operation prior to executing the directory operation. In certain implementations in response to determining that the control is a registered control the system modifies the control of the directory operation.

In some embodiments in response to providing the control to the directory application the system receives a response from the directory application. The system may then execute the directory operation based on the received response. In some cases the response may include a modified directory operation. In such cases executing the directory operation may include executing the modified directory operation.

In some embodiments in response to determining that the control is a native control the system performs an operation associated with the native control. The system can then execute the directory operation without removing the control from the directory operation. In some cases the system may execute the directory operation based on the control.

For certain implementations the system provides a result of processing the directory operation to the directory application thereby enabling the directory application to process the control based on the result of processing the directory operation.

In some embodiments in response to determining that the control is a registered control the system performs a first process associated with the directory operation to obtain a first directory operation result. The system may provide the first result to the directory application thereby enabling the directory application to use the first result in processing the control. Further the system can receive a control result from the directory application. The system may then perform a second process associated with the directory operation based on the control result to obtain a second directory operation result.

In some embodiments a method for extending the capability of a directory processor may be performed by a computing system comprising one or more processors. The method may include the system receiving a control definition. The system may access a control identifier associated with the control definition. Further the system may determine whether the control identifier exists in a control database associated with a directory processor. In response to determining that the control identifier does not exist in the control database the system may register the control definition with the control database.

In some embodiments registering the control definition with the control database can include the system injecting the control identifier into the directory processor. In some cases registering the control definition with the control database includes accessing an Application Programming Interface API associated with the directory processor.

In some embodiments the system identifies a directory application associated with the control definition. The system can then register the directory application with the control database wherein the directory application is associated with the control definition at the control database.

In some variations the system in response to determining that the control identifier exists in the control database determines whether a provider of the control definition is authorized to modify an existing control definition. In response to determining that the provider is authorized to modify the existing control definition the system modifies the existing control definition based on the received control definition. Modifying the existing control definition can include the system replacing the existing control definition with the received control definition.

In some embodiments the control database is configured to store control definitions associated with non native controls. Further determining whether the control identifier exists in the control database can include the system determining whether the control identifier exists in a native control database. The native control database can be configured to store the identity of native controls.

In some cases registering the control definition with the control database includes the system registering when an operation associated with the control definition is performed.

The use of directories provides one method for categorizing and providing access to large quantities of data. While directories are not limited to large quantities of data they enable data to be organized and sorted in a structure that facilitates the management and access of a large number of data entries or records. A traditional example of a directory is a telephone directory. Today electronic directories or directories implemented on one or more computer systems have become common for organizing data. Some examples of electronic directories can include electronic telephone books address books email systems and file organization systems. As used herein unless stated otherwise the term directory is used to refer to electronic directories.

A number of directory access protocols can be used to implement a directory and to provide access to the directory. For example a number of directories are based on the X.500 protocol. Moreover a number of these X.500 based protocols provide for a hierarchical organization of entries in the directory.

Some directory access protocols are not easily extensible if they are extensible at all. Thus some directory access protocols may be limited to the operations or directory operations that are defined by or included in the protocol.

One method for extending the functionality of operations is through the use of controls. An access protocol message can include a directory operation and a control. The control can cause modifications to the execution of the operation. To simplify discussion the access protocol message is generally described with relation to a single directory operation and the directory operation is generally described as including a single control. However this disclosure is not limited to a single directory operation or control. Those skilled in the art will understand that an access protocol message can include one or more directory operations. Further those skilled in the art will understand that a directory operation may include or be associated with one or more controls.

In some cases the selection of a control is limited to the controls specified by the protocol implemented by the directory. For example a directory that implements the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP can process controls to extend the functionality of operations. These controls and operations may be included as part of an LDAP message. However LDAP does not generally support dynamically adding new server controls. Further LDAP does not generally allow arbitrary information to be included with an LDAP operation thereby limiting the options for extending the functionality of the LDAP operation.

Described herein is a system and associated processes for enabling the functionality of a directory system to be extended through the use of dynamic controls. These dynamic controls may include controls that may be application specific and or may not have been included in the initial implementation of a directory. For example a dynamic control may be created after the directory has been implemented. In such cases a directory processor configured to access the directory may not be capable of processing the control. In some embodiments an existing control may be modified or replaced with a new control definition. The existing control generally includes non native or dynamic controls. However in some cases the existing control may include a native control. Further in some cases the existing control may be removed or deregistered. Alternatively in some cases the existing control may be replaced with a null control or a control that is configured to cause no action to be performed thereby virtually removing the control.

Moreover the directory service system may be configured to provide a directory service including but not limited to a distributed directory service. Generally the directory service may provide access to a set of records. These records may be organized in a specific structure such as a hierarchical structure. Some non limiting examples of directory services can include an electronic mail directory e.g. a corporate email directory a telephone directory e.g. an electronic corporate address book and a customer directory such as may be used by a Customer Relationship Management CRM system.

Further the records may be stored in a directory . This directory can include a database repository physical storage media or other storage system configured to store the records. Although depicted as part of the directory service system in some implementations the directory may be implemented as a separate system or on a separate storage device.

The directory service system may be configured to use a number of different protocols for accessing and maintaining the directory service over a network . For example the directory service system may be configured to use the Directory Access Protocol DAP the LDAP application protocol or any other type of X.500 based protocol for enabling the clients to access a directory over the network . Further in some cases the directory service system may be configured to use a non X.500 based protocol.

As illustrated in the directory service system may include a number of additional systems some of which facilitate accessing the directory . For instance the directory processor which may be implemented in software or as a combination of software and hardware can include any system for processing an operation or directory operation e.g. the directory operation associated with the directory . Directory operations can include any type of command related to interacting with the directory . These directory operations may include for example commands for modifying the directory e.g. add delete or modify an entry in the directory commands for accessing the directory e.g. search for an entry or compare attributes of an entry in the directory and commands relating to communicating with the directory e.g. a Bind command for specifying an LDAP protocol version to name a few. In some implementations the directory operation may be an LDAP operation.

Further the directory processor may also process a control e.g. the control which may be included with the directory operation . The control can include information relating to how the operation should be processed and can be used to extend the operation. For example a sort control may be provided with a search operation to cause the results of the search operation to be sorted based on an attribute identified in the control. In some embodiments the control may be an LDAP control.

In some implementations an operation can include multiple controls. Further although much of the description herein focuses on controls provided by the clients to the directory service system e.g. LDAP request controls as part of the directory operation in some cases it is also possible for controls to be included by the directory service system for provisioning to a client as part of a response to an operation e.g. LDAP response controls . For example in response to an initial operation by a user the directory service system may cause a control to be sent back to the client associated with the user indicating that the user s password must be changed before any operations can be completed.

A control can include a number of elements that identify the control and specify the control s operation. For example as illustrated in with respect to the control a control can include an identifier data associated with the control and a critical tag. The identifier can include any type of identifier for identifying the control including for example an Object Identifier OID . Based on this identifier the extension runtime module can determine if the control is a registered control stored in or whose identifier is stored in the registered controls repository . The registered controls can generally include non native controls that the directory service system or the directory processor were not preconfigured to perform when initially developed or manufactured. Thus in some cases the registered controls can be after market controls. Similarly the directory processor can determine if the control is a native control stored in or whose identifier is stored in the native server controls repository .

The data can include any type of data that may be used to specify how to process the control and or the operation that includes the control . The critical tag can specify whether the control is critical or not. In some embodiments a critical control is a control that must be processed by the system e.g. directory processor receiving the control. If the system is unable to process the control the operation that includes the control is rejected. If the control is not critical or is noncritical the system can continue to process the operation that includes the control regardless of whether the system is able to identify or process the control included with the operation.

A client may provide the directory operation with or without the control to the directory service system . The dashed line leading from the directory operation illustrates that the directory operation is provided over a communication channel established between the client and the network . However communication of the directory operation is not limited as such. The directory operation may be provided via any type of wired or wireless network e.g. the network using any type of communication protocol. Further in some cases the directory operation may be communicated via a direct communication connection between the client and the directory service system .

In certain embodiments the directory processor includes a native server controls repository . The native server controls repository may include any system that can store a list or other data structure that identifies controls supported by the directory processor . These supported controls or native controls may include controls that the directory processor was designed to support by the developer or manufacturer of the directory processor . Further the native controls may be controls that are part of a directory access protocol such as an LDAP protocol. The system for storing the identity of the supported controls can be hardware based e.g. a storage device software based e.g. a database or a combination of the two.

The directory processor may further include an extension runtime module . The extension runtime module can generally include any module that is configured to identify controls that have been registered with the extension runtime module . The identity of these registered controls may be stored in the registered controls repository . The extension runtime module may be injected into the directory processor using any process for injecting a software module into an existing software system. For example the extension runtime module may be injected into the directory processor using Detours from Microsoft .

In some embodiments the directory processor may include a set of tools to enable a user or application to inject the extension runtime module into the directory processor . Alternatively the directory processor may include a set of tools to enable an extension runtime module to interact or communicate with the directory processor without being injected into the directory processor . The set of tools may be made available as part of an Application Programming Interface API library or other system for enabling an application to interact with a directory processor . Further in some cases the tools may be part of an exposed interface that enable a user to interact with a directory processor such as a Command Line Interface CLI or Graphical User Interface GUI . In some embodiments the API or other set of tools may be included instead of or in addition to the extension runtime module .

In some embodiments the control registration system may inject the extension runtime module into the directory processor . Further the control registration system may be configured to provide a control or the identity of a control to be registered with the extension runtime module to the extension runtime module . These controls or their identities may then be stored in the registered controls repository . The control registration system may include a server controls repository that can store copies of the controls or control templates to be injected into the directory processor or the identities of the controls to be identified to the extension runtime module . Further in some cases the server controls repository may include the identities of the native controls that are stored in the native server controls repository .

In some implementations the control registration system may be configured to determine whether a control to be registered with the extension runtime module has been previously registered or shares an identifier with a control that has been previously registered. If so the control registration system can reject or prevent the control from being registered or reregistered. Alternatively the control registration system may enable the previously registered control to be overwritten.

In certain embodiments the extension runtime module can provide one or more of an operation and a control to the directory application associated with a control identified by the extension runtime module . Generally the registered controls or the controls identified in the registered controls repository differ from the controls identified in the native server controls repository . However in some embodiments there may exist some overlap between the controls identified in the registered controls repository and the native server controls repository . For example a user e.g. an administrator who desires to alter the functionality of a native control may create a new control with the same identifier as a native control. The user can then cause the control registration system to register this new control with the registered controls repository of the extension runtime module .

The directory service system may include any number of directory applications . These directory applications can include any type of application that is designed to access the directory . Further the directory applications can include any application designed to perform or execute one or more of the controls registered with the extension runtime module . Thus in some cases the directory applications can be configured to process controls generated by the directory application or a user e.g. an administrator that are registered with the directory processor .

For example a directory application may be configured to process an approval control that analyzes approval information e.g. user identification user authentication information user permissions etc. to determine whether an operation should be performed by the directory processor . The directory application can then allow or prevent execution of the operation based on the analysis of the approval information.

As a second example a directory application may be configured to process a critical object control that determines whether a directory operation that is requesting modification of an object or entry in the directory specified as critical includes a security token. The directory application can then allow or prevent execution of the operation based on whether the security token is present.

In a third example a directory application may be configured to perform application specific auditing based on a user defined control that is dynamically injected into the directory processor . Advantageously in certain embodiments by enabling a user to define a control the user can create application specific audit procedures that may differ or extend audit control procedures that may or may not exist as part of the directory access protocol used by the directory processor .

The network can include any type of wired or wireless network. For example the network can include a LAN WAN a cellular network the Internet and combinations of the same to name a few.

The clients can include any type of computing device that can interact with the directory service system by for example providing a directory operation to the directory service system . For example the clients can include a laptop desktop tablet mobile communications device e.g. a smartphone or the like. The clients may communicate directly with the directory service system or via the network .

The process begins at block where for example the control registration system receives a request to register a control. Generally this control can include any type of control that is not native to or defined by a directory access protocol e.g. LDAP that is implemented by the directory service system the directory processor and or the directory . The request to register the control may be received from a client a directory application a user interacting with the control registration system or any other system or application that can generate a control registration request.

At block the control registration system can access an identifier associated with the control. This identifier may include an OID or any other type of identifier that may be used to uniquely identify a control. At decision block the control registration system determines if a previously registered control associated with the identifier exists. The control registration system may make this determination by accessing the server controls repository which may include the identity of the previously registered controls. In some cases the server controls repository may also include the identity of native controls that the directory service system the directory processor and or the directory is configured to support.

If the control registration system determines at the decision block that the control or another control with the same identifier has been previously registered or in some cases exists as a native control the control registration system determines whether the requester e.g. the user or application that provided the request at block has permission to replace a previously registered control at decision block . In some cases the decision block includes determining whether the requester has permission to replace a native control. If the requester does not have permission to replace a control the control registration system rejects the registration request at the block . Rejecting the registration request can include providing a message warning or other response to the user or system that initiated the registration request or provided the registration request to the control registration system at the block . In some embodiments the block is optional. Thus in some embodiments if a previously registered control associated with the identifier exists the control registration system rejects the registration request at the block regardless of the permissions of the requester.

If the control registration system determines at the decision block that a previously registered control with the same identifier does not exist or has not been registered the control registration system registers the control at the block . Similarly if the control registration system determines at the decision block that the requester has permission to replace a previously registered control or a native control the control registration system registers the control at the block . Registering the control can include storing the control a template associated with the control and or the identity of the control at the server controls repository . Further registering the control can include identifying one or more directory applications that are capable of processing the control and storing the identity of the one or more applications at the server controls repository .

At block the control registration system injects the control into the directory processor . Injecting the control can include injecting a copy of the control a template associated with the control and or the identifier e.g. OID for the control into the directory processor and or the extension runtime module . Further injecting the control can include storing one or more of the copy of the control the template associated with the control and the identifier for the control at the registered controls repository . In addition injecting the control can include injecting the identity of one or more applications that are capable of processing the control. The identity of the one or more applications can be stored at the registered controls repository . In certain cases the extension runtime module may determine which of the applications to use to process the injected control. In some cases the control may specify which of the applications to use to processing the injected control.

In some embodiments the process may be modified to enable a control to be deregistered. For example the block may include receiving a request to deregister the control. Then the identifier for the control may be identified at the block . At decision block the control registration system can determine whether the control was previously registered or if the control is unregistered. If the control was unregistered or not previously registered the request to deregister the control is rejected. Alternatively in some cases the request may be identified as completed or unnecessary due to lack of a control to deregister. If the control was previously registered the control registration system can deregister or remove the identity of the control the control and or the control template from the server controls repository . Further the control registration system can cause the extension runtime module to remove the identity of the control the control and or the control template from the registered controls repository .

In some embodiments deregistering the control includes determining whether the control is a native control or a control registered by a user or application. If the control is a native control the request to deregister the control is rejected. If the control is not a native control the control registration system can proceed with the process to deregister the control.

The process in some cases may be used to replace or update a previously registered control with a new control. In such embodiments the blocks and may be optional. In some embodiments if the control registration system determines that a previously registered control associated with the identifier exists at the decision block the control registration system instead of rejecting the registration request replaces information associated with the previously registered control with information associated with the new or updated control. For example the control registration system may replace a control template associated with the previously registered control with a control template associated with the new or updated control.

In some embodiments the process may be used to update or replace native controls in addition to dynamic or registered controls. In some such embodiments the process may include informing a user that the registered control shares an identifier with a native control. The user can then confirm whether to replace the native control. In certain embodiments replacing a native control may include authenticating a user confirming the user s access permissions and or confirming an application s access permissions for the user and or application attempting to modify or replace the native control. For example in some cases replacing native controls may be limited to administrators or other authorized personnel.

In some embodiments the process can be used to remove or disable native controls. In some cases the native controls may be disabled or removed for security such as to limit the controls that may be used. In some embodiments directory operations that include native controls that have been removed or disabled may be modified to remove the native control from the directory operation. Alternatively the directory operation that includes a disabled native control may be rejected.

The process begins at block where for example the directory service system receives a directory operation from a client . In some embodiments the block may include providing the directory operation to one or more of the directory processor and the extension runtime module .

At decision block the directory service system using for example the extension runtime module determines whether the directory operation e.g. directory operation includes a control e.g. control . If the extension runtime module determines that the directory operation does not include a control the directory service system using for example the directory processor performs or executes the directory operation at the block .

If the extension runtime module determines that the directory operation includes a control the extension runtime module determines whether the control is a native control at decision block . Determining whether the control is a native control can include accessing the native server controls repository to determine whether an identifier e.g. an OID associated with the control is included in the native server controls repository . Alternatively or in addition determining whether the control is a native control can include accessing the registered controls repository to determine whether the identifier is stored in the repository.

If the extension runtime module determines that the control is a native control the directory service system using for example the directory processor performs or executes the directory operation at the block . In some cases the block may include performing a process associated with the control included with the directory operation and or modifying execution of the operation based on the control.

If the extension runtime module determines that the control is not a native control the extension runtime module determines whether the control is a registered control at the decision block . The registered control can include any control that is not native to or inherent in the operation of a directory processor that is designed based on or to operate with a directory access protocol e.g. LDAP . Further the registered control can include any control that is registered with the directory processor or the directory service system using the process . Determining whether the control is a registered control can include accessing the registered controls repository to determine whether an identifier associated with the control is stored in the repository.

If the extension runtime module determines that the control is not a registered control the extension runtime module causes the directory processor to reject the directory operation at decision block . Alternatively in some embodiments the extension runtime module may strip out or remove the control from the directory operation and then proceed to the block thereby enabling the directory processor to perform the directory operation without the control. Further in some cases the extension runtime module may determine whether to cause the directory operation to be rejected or performed without the control based on whether the control is associated with a critical tag or whether a critical tag associated with the control indicates that the control is critical.

If the extension runtime module determines that the control is a registered control the extension runtime module determines when to perform a process associated with the registered control at the block . In some embodiments the block is optional. At block the directory service system performs a process associated with the registered control using a directory application . In some cases multiple processes associated with the registered control may be performed at the block . Performing the process associated with the registered control can include providing the control the directory operation and or information associated with the control or directory operation to the directory application . Further in some cases performing the process associated with the registered control can include selecting a directory application from a set of directory applications to perform the process based on the control included with the directory operation. As described further below in some embodiments the block may be optional or may not be performed. Further in some cases the block may be performed for some registered controls but not others.

At decision block the directory service system using for example the extension runtime module or the directory application determines whether the result of the process associated with the registered control indicates that the directory operation is rejected or is not to be performed. If so the directory operation is rejected at the block . Rejecting the operation can include causing a message associated with the outcome of the process associated with the control to be provided to a user or application that caused the directory operation to be provided to the directory service system . Further rejecting the operation can include causing a message associated with the rejection of the directory operation to be provided to a user or application that caused the directory operation to be provided to the directory service system . In some embodiments the decision block may be optional or may not be performed. For example if the determination at the block indicates that the process associated with the control is to be performed after the directory operation is executed or performed the decision block may not be performed.

If the result of the process associated with the registered control is not associated with rejecting the directory operation the extension runtime module strips out or removes the control from the directory operation at the block . In some embodiments the block may be optional. For example if the control is a native control or if the directory processor is capable of processing or ignoring a registered control the control may not be removed from the directory operation at the block . At block the directory service system using for example the directory processor performs or executes the directory operation at the block using an instance of the directory operation with the control removed. In some embodiments the block is performed with the directory operation that includes the control. In such embodiments the directory processor may ignore the control as an unrecognized control. In some embodiments the process of performing the directory operation may depend on the result of the process performed at the block . For instance if the directory operation is an add new entry operation the result of the process performed at the block may determine the location within the directory where the new entry is added the security permissions required to remove or modify the entry after its added or both.

At block the directory service system performs a process associated with the registered control using a directory application . In some embodiments some or all of the embodiments described above with respect to the block may apply to the block . Further as with the block in some embodiments the block may be optional or may not be performed. In some cases the block may be performed for some registered controls but not others.

In some cases the process associated with the registered control may be performed in part at the block and in part at the block . For example the process may be initiated at the block and completed at the block . With some controls whether the block is performed may depend on the outcome of the block . For example the process associated with the block may include a commit process that confirms or commits the process performed at the block based on the outcome of the directory operation performed at the block . Similarly the process associated with the block may include a rolling back or undo process based on the outcome of the directory operation performed at the block .

In some cases the process associated with the registered control may be performed at either the block or the block based on the determination at the block . Thus in some instances one of the blocks and may be optional. For example if the extension runtime module determines at the block that the process associated with the control is to be performed after the directory operation the process may proceed to block after completing the process associated with the block . Further in some instances one or more of the blocks and may be performed in parallel with the block . In embodiments where the block is optional or is not performed the directory service system may be configured to perform one of the block or the block by default. In some embodiments the block may be optional. In other embodiments the block may be performed after a set of controls are performed or in response to a control including a commit command. Advantageously in certain embodiments a number of controls can be performed and or a number of directory operations may be queued before the directory operations are executed as part of a batch process. In some cases performing directory operations as a batch can improve the performance of the directory processor by for example limiting the number of accesses to the directory repository .

At the block the directory service system communicates a result of performing the directory operation to the client . In some cases the block may include communicating a result of performing a process associated with the control. Further in some embodiments the block may be optional.

In some embodiments the process does not depend on whether the control is a native control or a registered control. In such embodiments the decision block and the decision block may be combined into a single decision block that determines whether the control registered or native is associated with an identifier that is recognized by the extension runtime module e.g. an identifier stored in the registered controls repository or the native server controls repository . If the control is not recognized by the extension runtime module the process may proceed to block and reject the associated directory operation. Alternatively the extension runtime module may strip out the control and proceed to block where the directory operation is performed.

The example flow begins at event with the client providing the directory operation with the control to the directory service system where it is received by the extension runtime module . In certain embodiments the client may not be aware of the extension runtime module . Thus in some cases the extension runtime module may intercept the directory operation with the control as it is received by the directory service system regardless of whether the client directed the directory operation to the extension runtime module .

During event the extension runtime module determines whether the control is a registered control. If so the extension runtime module provides the directory operation with the control to the directory application . The directory application then processes the control at event . A result of processing the control may then be provided to the extension runtime module . This result can include an indication of whether the processing of the control succeeded or failed. In addition or alternatively the result may indicate whether to proceed with processing the directory operation. In some embodiments the directory application may modify the directory operation and or control parameters at event . The modified directory operation may then be performed during event which is discussed below. Further the modified control may be processed during event which is discussed further below. In some cases modifying the directory operation and or control may include replacing the directory operation and or control with a new directory operation and or control. The modified directory operation and or control may then be provided as part of the result to the extension runtime module .

As previously described above with respect to in some cases the control may be processed after the directory operation. In such cases the event may not occur. Further in some cases the control may be processed in part at event and in part at a later point in the example flow e.g. the event .

During the event the extension runtime module determines whether to proceed with processing the directory operation and or the control. This determination may be based on the result received from the directory application at event or based on whether the control was determined to be a registered control at event . If the extension runtime module determines not to proceed with processing the directory operation the extension runtime module may cause the directory service system to report the success or failure of processing the directory operation and or the control at event . This reporting may include a message indicating the reason for the success or failure of processing the directory operation and or control. If the extension runtime module determines that processing of the directory operation is to continue the extension runtime module removes the control from the directory operation at event . In cases where the control is a native control the extension runtime module may or may not remove the control from the directory operation.

The extension runtime module provides the directory operation without the control to the directory processor which processes the directory operation at event . The directory processor may then provide a result of processing the directory operation to the extension runtime module . This result may include an indication that the directory operation was or was not successfully completed or performed. Further the result may include any data that is associated with the directory operation. For example if the directory operation is a search operation the result may include the data identified by performing the search operation. In some cases the extension runtime module may not remove the control e.g. when the control is a native control . In such cases the extension runtime module may provide the directory operation with the control to the directory processor .

Similar to event at event the extension runtime module determines whether the control is a registered control. If so the extension runtime module provides the directory operation with the control to the directory application . In some embodiments the extension runtime module may also provide the result of processing the directory operation received after event to the directory application with the directory operation. The directory application then processes the control at event . In some cases processing the control may be based on the result of processing the directory operation received from the extension runtime module . A result of processing the control may then be provided to the extension runtime module . This result can include an indication of whether the processing of the control succeeded or failed.

As previously described above with respect to in some cases the control may be processed before the directory operation. In such cases the event may not occur. Further in some cases the control may be processed in part at event and in part at an earlier point in the example flow e.g. the event .

In some embodiments the extension runtime module determines when the control is to be performed. In such embodiments the extension runtime module will determine at event and at event whether a directory operation with a registered control should be provided to the directory application . Alternatively in some embodiments the directory application determines when the control is to be performed. In such embodiments the extension runtime module may provide the directory operation with the registered control to the directory application at event . The directory application can then determine whether to process the control at event event or partially at event and partially at event . Further the extension runtime module may provide the directory operation with the registered control to the directory application an indication that the directory operation has been processed and or a result of the directory operation at event .

At event the extension runtime module can provide a result of performing the directory operation. Providing the result may or may not also include providing a result of performing the control.

In some cases the extension runtime module may determine whether to perform event based on the result provided by the directory processor after processing the directory operation at event . For example if the result indicates that the directory operation was not processed successfully the extension runtime module may report to the client that the directory operation failed and cease any further processing of the directory operation and or control included with the directory operation. In some cases the control may be processed if the result of processing the directory operation indicates that the processing was unsuccessful. For example if the control relates to auditing or logging the control may be performed regardless of whether the directory operation is executed successfully or in some cases the control may be performed only when the directory operation fails to execute or to be performed successfully.

A number of computing systems have been described throughout this disclosure. The descriptions of these systems are not intended to limit the teachings or applicability of this disclosure. Further the processing of the various components of the illustrated systems can be distributed across multiple machines networks and other computing resources. For example the directory processor and the control registration system can each be implemented as separate computing systems or alternatively as one server or computing system. In addition two or more components of a system can be combined into fewer components. Further various components of the illustrated systems can be implemented in one or more virtual machines rather than in dedicated computer hardware systems. Likewise the data repositories shown can represent physical and or logical data storage including for example storage area networks or other distributed storage systems. Moreover in some embodiments the connections between the components shown represent possible paths of data flow rather than actual connections between hardware. While some examples of possible connections are shown any subset of the components shown can communicate with any other subset of components in various implementations.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially. Although certain computer implemented tasks are described as being performed by a particular entity other embodiments are possible in which these tasks are performed by a different entity.

Each of the various illustrated systems may be implemented as a computing system that is programmed or configured to perform the various functions described herein. The computing system may include multiple distinct computers or computing devices e.g. physical servers workstations storage arrays etc. that communicate and interoperate over a network to perform the described functions. Each such computing device typically includes a processor or multiple processors that executes program instructions or modules stored in a memory or other non transitory computer readable storage medium. The various functions disclosed herein may be embodied in such program instructions although some or all of the disclosed functions may alternatively be implemented in application specific circuitry e.g. ASICs or FPGAs of the computer system. Where the computing system includes multiple computing devices these devices may but need not be co located. The results of the disclosed methods and tasks may be persistently stored by transforming physical storage devices such as solid state memory chips and or magnetic disks into a different state. Each service described such as those shown in may be implemented by one or more computing devices such as one or more physical servers programmed with associated server code.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized the processes described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of protection is defined by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

