---

title: Sharing television and video programming through social networking
abstract: In particular embodiments a social networking system may receive from an external system outside the social-networking system, a request comprising a user identifier associated with a user of the social-networking system, query a social graph for stories generated by one or more connections of the user on the social-networking system, and transmit the stories to the external system. Similarly the social networking system may receive, from an external system outside of the social networking system, a request comprising a user identifier associated with a user of the social networking system, a content identifier, and a action performed by the user on the content identifier, generate a story for the received request, and publish the story to one or more connections of the user on the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301016&OS=09301016&RS=09301016
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09301016
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120405
---
Computer users may access and share information through various local and wide area computer networks including proprietary networks as well as public networks such as the Internet. Typically a web browser installed on a user s computing device facilitates access to and interaction with information located at various network servers identified by for example associated uniform resource locators URLs . Social networking websites may facilitate the sharing of user generated content. Such websites may include be linked with or provide platforms for applications enabling users to view or interact with profile pages created or customized by other users. A set of rules may govern users ability to view or interact with other users profile pages and a user s profile page may include user declared information such as contact information background information job or career information and interests.

A social network may be a social structure made of individuals groups entities or organizations represented by nodes that are tied connected to each other by one or more specific types of interdependency. Social network graph analysis may view social relationships in terms of network theory as nodes and edges. Nodes may represent the individual actors within the social network and edges may represent the relationships between individual actors. The resulting graph based structure s may very complex. There may be many kinds of edges between nodes. A social network or social graph may be a map of all relevant edges between or among all nodes being studied.

Particular embodiments integrate third party content delivery services such as cable providers and online video services with a social networking system for active and passive sharing of consumed content among the users of the social networking system. Such integration may permit a user of the social networking system to discover content watched liked or scheduled to be watched by the user s friends and first degree connections. Similarly the user may explicitly share content to his or her friends and first degree connections by actively selecting user interface elements to like or share a piece of content or passively share currently viewed content substantially in real time by enabling a sharing mode.

In particular embodiments users may discover or share content from any device or service integrated with the social networking system. For example a particular user may discover content not only by browsing his or her friends profile pages stored on and rendered by the social networking system but by accessing a third party web page of a over the top OTT content provider such as NetFlix or Hulu. In particular embodiments a user may discover or share content via his or her television set through a multiple system operator MSO or other cable provider. In particular embodiments social data may be presented to the user through the electronic program guide received from the MSO by the user s set top box STB and displayed on the user s television set. In particular embodiments users of the social networking system may discover or share content via a specialized application for a third party service on a mobile computing device such as a smartphone or tablet. For example the user may browse his or her friends favorite movies or share his or her own favorite movies via a NetFlix application resident on the user s smartphone. As another example a user may discover or share content via a smartphone application that is also linked to a MSO or cable provider such as a mobile application for managing the user s digital video recorder DVR offered by AT T U Verse cable service.

Particular embodiments may map multiple content descriptors from a plurality of services of varying formats into a single content identifier. For example four users may share that they are watching the show The Office from Hulu NetFlix Comcast cable and Dish Network satellite TV. Each individual service providers format for identifying content may be of a different format and include varying text or meta data. Absent centralized aggregation of these heterogeneous content descriptors into a single content identifier shares from users of disparate services are meaningless and unusable. Hence particular embodiments provide a system for matching content identifiers of varying format to a single node within the social graph.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. API request server may also allow external systems to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. An external systems in one embodiment sends an API request to social networking system via network and API request server receives the API request. API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which API request server communicates to the external systems via network . For example responsive to an API request API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external systems and communicates the collected data to the external systems . In another embodiment a user device communicates with social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

Action logger is capable of receiving communications from web server about user actions on and or off social networking system . Action logger populates action log with information about user actions enabling social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within social networking system and outside of social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on social networking system is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social network that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user or other actions interacting with another user. When a user takes an action within social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within social networking system an entry for the action is added to action log . In one embodiment action log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of social networking system such as an external systems that is separate from social networking system . For example action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external systems from web server . In this example the external systems reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph. The received interaction may include in one embodiment a graph object and a graph action that were defined by a graph definition module . Action logger would interpret the received interaction according to the definition of the graph action and graph object. For example an action logger may receive an interaction that includes a user s unique identifier a graph action called watch and a graph object called show. Action log would be populated with this received information. Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external systems include a user expressing an interest in an external systems or another entity a user posting a comment to social networking system that discusses an external systems or a web page within the external systems a user posting to social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external systems a user attending an event associated with an external systems or any other action by a user that is related to an external systems . Thus action log may include actions describing interactions between a user of social networking system and an external systems that is separate from social networking system .

Authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. For example the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entries comprise an enumeration of entities for example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list. External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Note that the various combinations of granularity of specification of information and the granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible i.e. all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

Authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. An external systems that attempts to access a user s comment about a URL associated with the external systems may also need authorization from authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings authorization server determines if another user an external systems an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user. In one embodiment authorization server uses a users privacy setting to determine if the user s comment about a URL associated with the external systems can be accessed by the external systems . The user s privacy setting may specify which other users or other entities are allowed to receive data about the user s actions or other information associated with the user.

Additionally social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact with. To maintain this data user profile store and connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of social networking system social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

Connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. Connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user.

Data stored in connection store user profile store and action log enables the social networking system to generate a social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node.

For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user profiles of the first user and the second users from user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within social networking system which is identified by action logger and stored in action log . The stored action of sending the message is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified from action log and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of social networking system . The image may itself be represented a node in social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from action log . By generating and maintaining the social graph social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

Building upon this understanding of a social graph which comprises nodes and edges the social graph can be opened by enabling third party developers and external systems to define objects and actions to be published to the social graph. As previously discussed a graph definition module may be linked to graph action type store and a graph object type store . Graph definition module enables the creation of actions and objects that imitate real world interactions. An action such as watched may include various properties such as a location where the action took place the user or users taking part in the action and a time duration field to record how long the user performed the action. The resulting graph action type may in one embodiment be stored in graph action type store . Objects such as film TV show genre and station may be defined using the graph object type store to have object properties such as visual object type auditory object type musical object type performing arts object type and the like. These graph object types are stored in graph object type store .

In one embodiment graph definition module defines certain actions to be performed on certain objects. For example an administrator of social networking system may define the watch action to only be performed on visual object types such as film show genre and station objects. Thus a third party developer that may desire to define a speech object that users can perform the action listen may define his speech object as an auditory object type such that the listen action may be performed on it.

In another embodiment graph definition module enables actions to be performed on any object leaving the semantics to the third party developer who utilizes actions and objects on the markup language document that is interpreted by the widget. Thus in this embodiment a third party developer may utilize the listen action with a user object in a voice over IP application phone call between a user of social networking system and a user of the voice over IP application. If the user of the voice over IP application is not a user of social networking system then only the information received from the external systems may be used in action log to be published in the newsfeed or stream in social networking system . Thus context free grammars may be utilized to capture external user interactions and integrate them into social networking system .

A graph publisher API assembles received actions and objects into newsfeed stories or other content items in the stream of content items in social networking system in one embodiment. In another embodiment graph publisher API responds to an API call from an external systems to retrieve user interactions on the external systems . Graph publisher API utilizes the definitions of the actions and objects to determine how to publish the data into the social graph of social networking system . In one embodiment the markup language document includes an instruction to social networking system to publish every action taken on the external systems as a newsfeed story or content item in the stream. In another embodiment the markup language document includes an instruction to social networking system to publish actions taken on the external systems in batches or in aggregate. Note that social networking system may passively publish these content items into the user s stream on social networking system because of prior authorization provided to the external systems . If such authorization to post content items into the stream has not been given by the user then a dialog box requesting permission would prompt the user.

A graph translation module enables social networking system to dynamically form sentences based on the structured objects and actions generated on external systems such as applications that indicate a number of miles run during a workout or top artists listened to this week. The metadata about these objects for example artist objects and workout objects may be utilized by graph content item ranking module to rank the content items generated from these external user interactions in one embodiment. The metadata about these objects may be published to a newsfeed stream added to a user s profile or displayed via a plug in e.g. an iframe on an external systems that interface with social networking system . Separate modules of social networking system may determine a reputation score for applications and or external systems to identify spam or unwanted applications. An application s reputation score indicating a likelihood of spam is utilized by graph content item ranking module in determining ranking scores for content items generated by the application. The reputation score may be determined from a number of factors including behavior of the application gathered from heuristics analysis reports from users that the application is spam annoying or offensive and blacklists that indicate the application is spam.

Another global factor that may be applied to a graph content item ranking score is an overall quality of an application that produces the content item. The quality of an application may be determined via separate modules and the factors considered in judging the quality of an application may include user engagement with the application popularity of the application among all users of social networking system consistency of the application behavior observed by social networking system reputation of the authors of the application and an average rating of the application by users and administrators of social networking system . In one embodiment the overall quality of an application may be represented as an application quality score and the application quality score is taken as a factor in ranking content items for display to a viewing user.

User specific factors may also be applied to the ranking of a graph content item. These user specific factors include weights to other users connected to the viewing user and weights to applications and interests that are preferred by the viewing user. For example a viewing user may have over 1000 connections to other users on a social networking system but may only interact with 20 of those users on a daily basis through sharing commenting expressing approval of and selecting links embodied within content items generated by the subset of users. Thus content items from those users in the subset may be ranked higher by graph content item ranking module . Additionally content items generated by applications that are preferred by the viewing user as determined from observed click through rates whether the user has installed the application generating the content item time elapsed since interacting with the application and number of interactions with the application may also be ranked higher by graph content item ranking module . A viewing user s preferences for applications interests and other concepts may be stored as affinity scores in a user profile object associated with the viewing user in user profile store .

As an example a viewing user may be very interested in Lady Gaga as indicated by an affinity score for Lady Gaga in the user profile object associated with the user. Affinity scores may be computed by separate modules for various interests nodes and users of social networking system based on an explicitly stated interest by users on their profile pages or implied interest by actions of users and their connections on social networking system and external systems . In one embodiment the artist object for Lady Gaga is associated with the viewing user s user profile object with a high affinity score. Content items associated with Lady Gaga that were generated on an external systems .

Graph content item ranking module may include a recommendation engine highlights objects that may be of interest to a viewing user based on past interactions with other objects the expressed interests of the viewing user and the past interactions with other objects by other users connected to the viewing user. Object to object similarity analysis may be determined by the recommendation engine asynchronously. Additionally the recommendation engine may log of what object types have been displayed to a user and in an effort to diversify the object types presented to the user it may also recommend object types that have not been recently displayed in one embodiment. Recommendations may influence a ranking score generated by graph content item ranking module in varying intensities such as by increasing a ranking score exponentially linearly or logarithmically. In one embodiment an object owner brand owner or other third party may purchase a boost in the ranking score through a user interface on the social networking system. For example a purchase of a book on an electronic retailer that was communicated to the social networking system as a graph action instance performed by a user of the social networking system may be boosted in the rankings of recommendations to a viewing user connected to the user if the publisher of the book purchased a premium placement for the book within the recommendations for the viewing user of the social networking system.

Graph data may be stored and indexed in graph data store . Graph data store includes data structures suitable for describing the graph data received from external systems . In one embodiment graph data may be received from within social networking system such as users sharing stories with other users that include graph data users playing a song that was shared within their newsfeed stream of stories on social networking system users purchasing a product from within an application on social networking system and users watching a video from a playlist that was shared in a message from other users of social networking system . Graph data may include custom graph actions actors users performing custom graph actions custom graph objects and properties of the custom graph actions and custom graph objects that have been defined by entities external to social networking system .

When graph data is received social networking system may search for the graph data in graph data store and add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user watches a program or show previously watched on an external systems . In this case the graph data corresponding to the show object may be modified to reflect the new watch action. Graph integration module may interact with graph data store to provide a user interface on the user s user profile page on social networking system that reflects the new watch action. Because graph data may be collected about similar objects from multiple domains such as Spotify iTunes Rovi proprietary EPG data from MSOs and RDIO a virtual object may be created by social networking system and stored in graph data store . As watch action instances are received from multiple domains performed on the same TV show as identified by social networking system by the title of the show actors producer and duration graph data store is accessed to identify the virtual object that represents the show objects that are associated with the watch action instances. The watch action instances are then associated with the virtual object created by social networking system that represents the similar show objects as determined by social networking system . In this way social networking system may report a newsfeed story that includes the watch action and the virtual object for a particular show such as The Office regardless of whether the show was watched on iTunes Netflix Hulu Google TV Comcast AT T U Verse Dish Network Time Warner Cable or any other video content provider. In one embodiment the newsfeed story may include the domain or video service on which the show was watched but may enable the user to access the show on a different domain or content delivery service from within the newsfeed story on the social networking system. In another embodiment a user may add a geographic location to a custom graph action instance indicating where the graph action was performed. Virtual objects may be generated by a social networking system for other types of custom graph objects such as news stories commercial products videos concerts theatre shows songs and so on.

Graph integration module utilizes action types and object types defined by graph definition module that are stored in graph object type store and graph action type store to integrate user interactions on external systems with social networking system . For example a streaming video service may enable users to watch content on an external systems such as a website or a mobile application. In one embodiment social networking system may associate buttons and links on user interfaces with requests sent to an embedded web server on an external systems hosting the streaming music service. The requests trigger the actions requested such as queuing a video hosted on an external server. This allows users to share TV shows and movies with their friends on social networking system via a hyperlink. The selection of the link generates a request to the external systems to execute the action in this case queuing the video or show through the user device accessing social networking system via network .

In particular embodiments connected devices receive content from MSOs or OTT providers while receiving or transmitting social data to social networking system . For example a user watching a particular TV show or movie on either service may choose to share that he or she is currently viewing the program to his or her friends. Conversely a user browsing the EPG of an MSO or the content navigator of an OTT provider may be presented with social data including the content that his or her friends on social networking system have watched are currently watching or plan to watch. Thus after exchanging auth messages with social networking system to authenticate the user s social networking identity with his or her connected device connected devices may receive discover messages that identify content being consumed or watched by his or her friends on the social network and transmit share messages to inform social networking system of what the user has is or plans to watch or consume. Although depicts these messages as being transmitted directly between social networking system and connected devices in particular embodiments authorization share and discover messages and may be exchanged between the provider from which content is being accessed namely MSOs and OTT providers . This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of routing messages from viewing devices to social networking system .

Although increasingly rare there are scenarios wherein a particular user of the social networking system has no means of linking his TV or viewing device to social networking system . Unconnected devices lack any means of connecting to Internet network . For example a user may not have a local ISP and only TV service from an MSO. As another example a user may have both cable service from an MSO as well as internet access from a local ISP but his or her STB may not include a NIC. In such configurations MSO communicates authorization share and discover messages with social networking system and unconnected devices communicate via STB only with MSOs .

In particular embodiments content may be delivered to user devices and tagged with content identifiers and metadata. For example Comcast may utilize its own proprietary EPG data format that lists the program name air date actors producer director etc. In particular embodiments content providers and may obtain content identifiers and metadata from content databases such as the Rovi Corporation. Each particular piece of content may be transmitted from devices or in particular embodiments via content providers and as graph data including a graph object and graph action. As previously discussed social networking system may de duplicate graph data for the same graph object in graph data store by comparing various attributes about the content object for example name actors duration air date etc. Thus social networking system may attribute graph data transmitted from Hulu that a particular user watched the critically acclaimed feature film The Marine to the same graph object as a user currently watching The Marine on Comcast digital cable irrespective of the source and format of the content metadata.

At consumption sharing phase user consumes content by watching or queuing video content and shares a story of the consumption with social networking system . In particular embodiments user may explicitly share a story of her consumption of the content with social networking system by actively selecting sharing buttons on a user interface. Such embodiments are described in further detail with reference to . In particular embodiments sharing occurs passively without user selection. Such embodiments are described in further detail with reference to . When stories of content consumption by user are transmitted to social networking system the friends of user may view the sharing stories thereby discovering new content to consume. In particular embodiments user may specify which of her friends may view her consumption stories. In particular embodiments user may have different privacy settings for actively and passively shared consumption stories

At discovery phase user may view consumption stories published by her friends . As previously stated the ability of user to view consumption stories published by the user s friends depends on the privacy settings of each individual user . Thus the conceptual framework of describes a cycle where users are constantly discovering new content shared by their friends consuming content and sharing content with their friends. Hence the user experience both on and off social networking system is enhanced.

At Step social networking system may search graph data store for graph objects having the same title. In particular embodiments social networking system may compensate for particular differences in formatting by considering two titles to match if a predetermined percentage of words or characters are identical. For example social networking system may consider The Office and Office The to be matches despite differences in ordering.

If social networking system determines that the received graph object has an existing content identifier in graph data store social networking system proceeds to deduplicate the received graph object at Step . As previously discussed social networking system may perform further checks to determine that the content object received from external system is the same content object as the content identifier stored in graph data store . For example social networking system may compare actor names run date MPAA rating duration and other metadata received from external system to metadata or object attributes for the content identifier in graph data store . In particular embodiments a certain percentage of matching metadata indicates that the objects are the same. In particular embodiments certain metadata fields may be weighted more heavily or given greater importance. For example because literally thousands of programs air per year the air date may be weighted very lightly in comparison to for example the lead actors. In particular embodiments social networking system may have access to one or more content databases and may build graph data store with attributes pulled from content databases . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of de duplicating a received content object and a content identifier in graph data store .

At Step if social networking system determines that the received content object does not match any existing content identifiers in graph data store social networking system creates a new graph object for the received content object. In particular embodiments the created graph object may be a virtual graph object. In particular embodiments metadata received from external systems may be used to populate object attributes of the created graph object. In particular embodiments social networking system may compare a particular piece of received metadata to all content object attributes in graph data store in order to populate the correct object attribute with the metadata. For example if graph data is received a piece of metadata with George Clooney social networking system may search the string George Clooney across all content object attributes in graph data store and assign the metadata to the object attribute of the newly created virtual object in which matches arise in this example the Actors object attribute. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of creating a new graph object and populating the object attributes of the newly created object with received metadata.

At Step social networking system draws an edge between the user ID contained in the received graph data and the graph object either a new virtual graph object created in Step or the content identifier identified in Step . As previously discussed the graph action may be of any type and defined by a third party. In particular embodiments social networking system may define a set of social TV actions that may be standard among all social TV API users. In particular embodiments social networking system may perform a similar deduplication of graph actions such that a graph action received from Hulu such as watched on Hulu Plus is mapped to a universal graph action watched. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of creating and drawing graph actions between user nodes and objects.

At Step social networking system publishes the story of the user s consumption. The story may be published through a number of different channels. In particular embodiments the story appears on the wall of the user. In particular embodiments the story appears in the newsfeed of the user s friends. In particular embodiments the story is published to an external system . In particular embodiments the story is published to a social plug in that may be embedded in a portion of a user s social networking profile page. For example the user may wish to include a currently watching widget on a portion of his or her profile page. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of publishing a consumption story received by the social networking system.

In particular embodiments consumption stories are not pushed to distribution services but rather the service issues a request to social networking system to query the social graph. For example when a user logs into the clicker website with their social networking ID a script of plug in embedded in the markup language delivered to the user device may issue a query to the social graph containing the user s social networking identifier. In response social networking system may return all the user s friends consumption stories and the plug in may display the consumption stories on a predetermined portion of the page. In particular embodiments the external system in this example Clicker is responsible for mapping social graph content identifiers received from social networking system to content on its own website.

As another example when a user accesses a mobile application such as for example the NBC.com mobile application of on his or her mobile device such as an iPhone or iPad the application may issue a query to the social graph for consumption stories of the friend whose account is associated with the mobile device. In particular embodiments social networking system is responsible for the mapping from social graph content identifiers to the content identifiers used by external service . For example if a user accesses his or her EPG on her AT T U Verse service the social networking system may return data that associates published consumption stories with programs within the electronic programming guide.

EPG also includes social portion . In particular embodiments EPG is delivered to the user as a markup language document and social portion is a block of code in the markup document functioning as a widget or plug in. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of rendering and implementing social portion . Social portion may include social data specific to the user associated with the viewing device. For example when the user s STB requests EPG entry the STB may also issue a query to the social graph including the user s social networking identification and the title of the program . In response social networking system may map the program title to a particular graph object or content identifier as discussed with reference to and return the friends of the user who have affinity like edges with the graph object. In particular embodiments social portion may also include comments . Comments may be retrieved from the page also referred to as a hub page or landing page representing the content object on social networking system . In particular embodiments only comments from the user s friends or first degree contacts from the hub page. In particular embodiments comments may be pulled from an external site such as rottentomatoes.com or imdb.com. This disclosure contemplates retrieving comments or other social data from any suitable source. In particular embodiments comments may be arranged chronologically. In particular embodiments they may be arranged by social value that is comments from close friends or users with whom the viewer of EPG has a higher social coefficient are displayed first. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of scoring or arranging comments in social portion .

In particular embodiments social portion includes active or explicit sharing user interface elements. For example social portion includes Like button and Share button . Selection of like button transmits a request to social networking system to draw a like edge in the social graph between the user node associated with the viewing device and the content object in graph data store . In particular embodiments such a like action is published as a story to the user s wall and to the user s friend s newsfeed. Similarly selecting share button may cause the user s STB to transmit a request to social networking system to draw a share edge between the viewing user s social graph user node and the content object. This disclosure contemplates other buttons such as watch queue or schedule for recording that similarly draw edges in the social graph for specific actions. This disclosure contemplates any suitable selection or arrangement of active sharing buttons that permit a user to take explicit action to share what he or she is watching or express an affinity for a particular show.

At Step social networking system via API request server receives a request to query the social graph from an external system . In particular embodiments Step occurs simultaneously with user authentication and may include the user s social networking identifier and password. In particular embodiments Step occurs after social networking system has already authenticated the device and has associated the user s social networking identifier with the device.

At Step social networking system receives one or more EPG content objects. In particular embodiments such as when a user is viewing EPG social networking system receives a list of program titles. In particular embodiments such as where a user is viewing a detailed EPG social networking system receives a single program title from external system . In particular embodiments external system may transmit metadata along with the program titles.

At Step social networking system iteratively begins searching for objects in graph data store that match the program titles transmitted by external systems . In particular embodiments social networking system performs the same method as Steps in to map EPG program titles to content objects. In particular embodiments social networking system may receive only EPG program titles and request additional metadata from external system if a suspected match is found.

If no existing match is found social networking system may iterate to the next EPG program title in the list of titles. In particular embodiments social networking system may create a virtual object for the title in graph data store . This disclosure contemplates any suitable action by social networking system upon failure to find a matching entry in graph data store .

If an existing entry is found social networking system checks whether there exist any sharing stories from the user s friends about the content object. If so the process moves to Step where social networking system correlates the sharing story to the EPG program title. In step social networking system transmits the social data comprising a sharing storing and an EPG program title to external system . Thus external system can easily populate EPG and with received social data with minimal programming and content matching on its part.

The process then iterates through the entire list of received EPG program titles. In particular embodiments a new request is transmitted from external system to social networking system every time the user s view changes. For example if a user scrolls in EPG vertically or horizontally the user is presented with a new set of shows. Each time the user s view changes a new request is transmitted to social networking system to determine whether there exist social stories on the viewable shows. Thus the user s view of EPG is constantly updated with social stories.

The method of is described for didactic purposes only. One of ordinary skill in the art can envision different methods that correlate EPG program titles with content identifiers on social networking system . For example in particular embodiments social networking system may first obtain a list of all the user s friends sharing stories and perform a search of the received EPG program titles with the titles of the content objects. Such a method may greatly reduce the amount of searching necessary when the user is browsing EPG as there will be necessarily fewer programs with stories than without. However where the number of EPG program titles received is low it may be faster to perform the exact method of . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of populating EPG and with social data.

The examples of illustrate user interfaces provided by external system wherein content data is supplemented with social data i.e. sharing stories from the user s friends . Such user interfaces can be fairly simply implemented via the method of and other similar methods with little effort on the part of external systems . However illustrate example user interfaces provided by external systems where the content objects themselves are determined by social data.

Each of content objects include social data and . In particular embodiments social data includes the number of friends who have watched are planning to watch or are currently watching the content. In particular embodiments social data includes profile pictures pulled from social networking system for the friends who have generated sharing stories for the content objects . In particular embodiments the profile pictures are arranged by decreasing social coefficient the friends who are the closest to the user are displayed first. In particular embodiments social data includes other explicit social actions such as whether a user likes a particular content object. This disclosure contemplates displaying any suitable social action in social data 

Content browser also includes an action button that allows the user to perform a particular action on the content object. In particular embodiments selecting action button may immediately begin the streaming or playback of the associated content object. In particular embodiments selecting action button may place the content into the user s queue. in particular embodiments selecting action button may schedule the content for recording on a DVR. This disclosure contemplates any suitable action button and any suitable action that may be performed on a content object.

In particular embodiments social portion may include real time sharing stories . Real time sharing stories describe what content the friends of the user are also watching at the moment. Thus a user may select any one of real time sharing stories to switch the display to view the same program that his or her friend is watching. Such information may prompt both on network interactions such as messages or wall posts as well as real off network social interactions such as phone calls or face to face conversations at a later time. Social portion may also include as previously described active or explicit sharing buttons and . Selecting button may generate a sharing story for the currently watched program on social networking system .

Active or explicit sharing buttons and require active participation by the user to share what the user is currently watching to social networking system and therefore his or her friends on social networking system . In particular embodiments the user s device may passively share what the user is currently watching to social networking system without any explicit action from the user to do so. In particular embodiments as the user flips through various channels his or her device will generate sharing stories substantially in real time to be posted to social networking system . In particular embodiments social networking system may only publish sharing stories when the user has continually watched one program longer than a predetermined amount of time to prevent channel surfing from flooding other users newsfeeds. In particular embodiments a visible sharing indicator may be displayed in display to alert the user that he or she is sharing that he or she is watching the current program to social networking system . In particular embodiments sharing indicator may include an explicit warning that states that the user is currently sharing his or her viewing choices to prevent public humiliation. In the example of the sharing indicator merely states sharing mode on. In particular embodiments the user may toggle sharing mode on and off with a button in a user interface or hardware device for the viewing device. In particular embodiments the sharing indicators and may obscure less of the display area. For example in particular embodiments sharing mode may comprise a red border around the picture. In other embodiments sharing mode may be indicated by flashing an LED on the viewing device. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sharing indicator implemented in hardware or software.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 1102.3 network a backplane etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in the servers whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In one implementation the operations of the embodiments described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by hardware system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. In a particular embodiment a set of software modules and or drivers implements a network communications protocol stack browsing and other computing functions optimization processes and the like. The foregoing functional modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or a combination of both. For example the functional modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be tangibly stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communications interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft r Windows r operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the nickname generating functions described herein may be implemented in firmware or on an application specific integrated circuit.

Furthermore the above described elements and operations can be comprised of instructions that are stored on storage media. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processing system. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processing system to direct the processing system to operate in accord with the disclosure. The term processing system refers to a single processing device or a group of inter operational processing devices. Some examples of processing devices are integrated circuits and logic circuitry. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions computers and storage media.

Herein reference to a computer readable non transitory storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive another suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. By way of example while embodiments have been described as operating in connection with a social networking website the disclosure can be used in connection with any communications facility that supports web applications. Furthermore in some embodiments the term web service and web site may be used interchangeably and additionally may refer to a custom or generalized API on a device such as a mobile device e.g. cellular phone smart phone personal GPS personal digital assistance personal gaming device etc. that makes API calls directly to a server. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

