---

title: Intent-based clustering of medical information
abstract: A medical information navigation engine (“MINE”) includes a medical information interface, a reconciliation engine and an intent-based presentation engine. The medical information interface receives medical information from a plurality of medical sources, which is subsequently reconciled by the reconciliation engine. The intent-based presentation engine clusters the reconciled medical information by applying at least one clustering rule to the reconciled medication information. The clustered reconciled medical information can be presented to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043901&OS=09043901&RS=09043901
owner: APIXIO, INC.
number: 09043901
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121228
---
This continuation in part application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 652 by Rogers et al. entitled Systems and Methods for Medical Information Analysis with Deidentification and Reidentification filed on Oct. 19 2012 which application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 223 228 by Chaudhri et al. entitled MEDICAL INFORMATION NAVIGATION ENGINE MINE SYSTEM filed on Aug. 31 2011 which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 379 228 by Ansari et al. entitled MEDICAL INFORMATION NAVIGATION ENGINE MINE SYSTEM filed on Sep. 1 2010 which all applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

Also this application claims the benefit of provisional application No. 61 582 213 by Chaudhri et al. filed on Dec. 30 2011 entitled Intent Based Clustering which application is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

The present invention relates generally to medical information engine and particularly to management and consolidation of medical information.

Despite rapid growth of innovation in other fields in recent decades the world of medical information including patient medical records billing and a host of other information has enjoyed little to no useful consolidation reliability or ease of access leaving medical professionals hospitals clinics and even insurance companies with many issues such as unreliability of medical information uncertainty of diagnosis lack of standard and a slew of other related problems.

One of the challenges facing those in the medical or related areas is the number of sources of information the great amount of information from each source and consolidation of such information in a manner that renders it meaningful and useful to those in the field in addition to patients. Obviously this has contributed to increased medical costs and is perhaps largely attributed to the field suffering from an organized solution to better aid the medical professionals to better aid those requiring more reliable patient history and those requiring more control and access over such information.

Currently when a patient sees various medical professionals over the years there is no method for universally tracking recommendations thoughts prescriptions diagnosis. This hinders the job of insurance companies in making certain requisite determinations physicians making decisions that directly impact the health of the patient and hospitals and other medical institutions that similarly rely but do not have the benefit of the requisite information not to mention the patient.

Further there are problems in the current medical system that are associated with patient identity in that due to the exposure of a patient to various medical associations professionals over the years and the possibility of various ways of identifying the same patient patients records and identity are oftentimes compromised creating a slew of problems both for the patient as well as those treating the patient.

Further privacy of a patient s health records is not currently reliably maintained as there are too many cases of health record compromises. Additionally patient control of access to medical information is nearly nonexistent. Additionally secure and remote access of medical information is currently lacking.

It is therefore apparent that an urgent need exists for a medical information navigation engine MINE capable of managing medical information in a manner that is beneficial reliable portable flexible and efficiently usable to those in the medical field including patients. Such a MINE should also be capable of reconciling and intent based clustering of patient data by applying at least one clustering rule to the reconciled medication information and presenting the clustered reconciled medical information to a user.

To achieve the foregoing and in accordance with the present invention systems and methods for managing medical information are provided. In particular systems and methods for intent based clustering of medical information.

In one embodiment a medical information navigation engine MINE includes a medical information interface a reconciliation engine and an intent based presentation engine. The medical information interface is configured to receive medical information from a plurality of medical sources which is subsequently reconciled by the reconciliation engine. The intent based presentation engine is configured to cluster the reconciled medical information by applying at least one clustering rule to the reconciled medication information. The presentation engine can be further configured to present the clustered reconciled medical information to a user.

In some embodiments the MINE also applies at least one dynamic rule to the reconciled medical information and the reconciliation may include applying one or more similarity rules to the medical information. The similarity rules may include comparing patient data attributes. The intent based presentation engine can be configured to compute a distance between the patient data attributes and clustered reconciled medical information. If the computed distance is less than a threshold then the clustered reconciled medical information is included in a presentation cluster prepared for the user. Conversely if the distance is greater than a threshold then the clustered reconciled medical information is excluded from a presentation cluster prepared for the user. The similarity rules may include identifying associated terms.

Note that the various features of the present invention described above may be practiced alone or in combination. These and other features of the present invention will be described in more detail below in the detailed description of the invention and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to several embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention. The features and advantages of embodiments may be better understood with reference to the drawings and discussions that follow.

Referring now to medical system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system is shown to include medical source a medical information navigation engine MINE and medical information consumers also referred to herein as output or medical output . The medical source are shown to include an electronic health record EHR EHR health information exchange HIE and a picture archiving and communication system PACS . The MINE is shown to include interface a back end medical processor and a front end medical processor .

 Medical information as used herein refers to any health related information including but not limited to patient medical records patient entered information care team entered information healthcare device generated information and billing information.

The source generally provides various medical information to the MINE . For example the EHRs and each may provide information such as medical records and billing the HIE may provide information such as medical records and the PACS may provide information such as diagnostic imaging and reports.

The medical information consumers which may be made of a host of entities or individuals such as patients clinics medical institutions health organization and any other medical related party use information that is provided by the processor of MINE and that can by way of example consist of patients medical systems medical organization administrators medical researchers and or EHR users. For example user customized processed medical information is provided by the processor to a number of users within the medical information consumers . In this case the processor generates user customized processed medical information to a plurality of users with at least a portion of the user customize processed medical information being provided to each of the users based on the relevancy of the portion being provided of each user s specific function or role and each user s associated security privileges.

The processor in some embodiments indexes identifies maps and consolidates medical information received from the interface and tags this information and determines to reconcile the tagged information. In some methods and embodiments information that is extracted from images is tagged to enhance recall of search queries. Indexing at least in part processes document and converts them into formats that allows for quick searching across a large collection of documents.

The information in the MINE is encrypted and secure to ensure privacy of sensitive medical information.

It is understood that the sources of includes merely some examples of the sources that communicate with the MINE and that other sources known to those in the field are contemplated. Similarly the output may be used by those or entities not discussed herein but that are contemplated and within the scope and spirit of the invention.

The interface serves to receive information that is in various forms such as but not limited to text html CCD CCR HL7 and any other type or formatted information. The interface then provides to the processors and information as needed.

The processor receives some of the medical information that the interface processes and performs certain tasks to process it such as indexing semantic meta tagging and reconciliation. Indexing takes processed documents and converts them into formats that make it easy to quickly search across a large collection of documents. Semantic meta tagging embeds information into the medical information that is relevant thereto and that can be later used to search for certain information for the purpose of reconciliation and search among many others.

One aspect of consolidation reconciliation and de duplication generally refers to removing of redundant patient medical records such as multiple records for the same individual appearing as though the records are for different individuals or multiple data elements that are recorded similarly but slightly differently in the different sources. In this case the processor recognizes that the records belong to a single individual or are the same data and just recorded differently and automatically consolidates them. The patient or a user of the system may also manually perform reconciliation. The processor advantageously determines whether or not reconciliation is performed.

The processor outputs the indexed tagged and reconciled information to the processor . The foregoing tasks are a generalization and further details of each are provided below.

The processor performs certain tasks on the information provided by the interface and the processor which include query search presentation and quality checking. The output of the processor is the output of the MINE or output .

The MINE through the processor in some embodiments and methods invites members of a medical care team to join it thereby allowing distributed user organized care teams.

Querying as performed by the processor is the ability to receive as input a free text query from a user i.e. a query without any restrictions on the structure and converting the free text query into commands to a medical search engine such as Medical Lexical Search Engine and the MATRIX Medical Application Terminology Relationship IndeX Concept Search Engine using a sophisticated query processing engine optimized to work with medical queries. The results of the search engine are sent to the presentation display planner which decides the most relevant presentation given the user s organization and role e.g. the provider search query program a healthcare administrator a study administrator and the patient . The presentation discussed below receives such information. In some embodiments and methods the medical information or user information is processed to suggest relevant queries.

Search as performed by the processor is built around the concept of Zero Click Relevance or the ability to get to all the relevant information an actor in the healthcare system requires by typing in just a single query. The search engine within the processor performing the search comprises an indexing and searching as will become apparent shortly. Optionally search results may be securely embedded into third party programs. In some embodiments searching involves determining presenting also referred to herein as providing access to specific relevant data based on a search query the patient and the user s specific function and or role and security privileges. A user may be within the output and security privileges are either determined by the MINE or by the patient or both. The information that is uploaded to the MINE by users such as in output in some embodiments is searched by the processor . The uploaded information may include information such as but not limited to status posts records and images. Such user uploaded information is routed automatically to the output as needed.

Some aspects of the search are now discussed relevant to an example. Assuming by way of example that Dr. Smith an internal medicine physician sees a new patient Joan Sample who presents with a complaint of chest pain. Joan has brought several continuity of care documents CCDs and a 600 page pdf file representing of her medical chart. She has seen a cardiologist who uses NextGen s electronic medical record EMR and a gastroenterologist who uses eMD s EMR and she has recently visited a local emergency room. Dr. Smith uses the search of the various methods and embodiments of the invention to efficiently assemble the relevant information he needs. Dr. Smith selects Joan Sample as the patient and enters the clinical context chest pain in the search bar of a screen presented by the MINE examples of such screens are shown in subsequent figures herein . He is presented with relevant lab results such as CKMB troponin and amylase relevant diagnostic results such as prior electrocardiograms EKGs and the most recent chest computed tomography CT scan and all progress notes and consult reports in which concepts relevant to chest pain like GERD and cardiac stress test are mentioned. Two distinct types of searches are combined in accordance with a method and embodiment of the invention to retrieve information medically relevant to Joan s complaint 1 Lexical search where text in the patient record is searched for occurrences of the search term its variants and synonyms and 2 Medical concept search where data that is medically related to the search term is retrieved. Medical concept search finds relevant structured data with standardized codes such as lab results and text results such as progress notes which include terms medically related to the search term. In Joan s case a search for chest pain returns a CKMB lab result and a reference to the most recent chest CT scan. Accordingly and advantageously the Lexical and Medical concept search solves Dr. Smiths information overload problem by returning information in the chart most relevant to determining the etiology of Joan s chest pain complaint. Further in some embodiments the presentation discussed shortly presents a united view of Joan s history by reconciling and de duplicating data from multiple sources that may be coded and described differently. Redundant data is automatically reconciled even if it is described differently by differently sources.

Presentation as performed by the processor is displaying health information to the requesting user in a way that reduces the number of clicks and maximizes the amount of meaningful information delivered based on the interpreting the intent of the user query.

Quality checking as performed by the processor is checking of the quality of medical information provided by various sources i.e. source by the patients structured data and unstructured data in a Wiki like mannered setting whereby the users can help maintain and improve the quality of information displayed. The foregoing tasks performed by the processor are further described in detail below. Additionally the users or patients may make comments regarding medical information in a Wiki like manner.

In summary the MINE transacts medical information including the interface receiving medical information from a number of medical sources such as within the source for processing identifying mapping and consolidating by the medical processor providing access to specific relevant data based on a user s security privileges within the identified mapped and consolidated medical information based on user specific functions or roles performed by the processor and generating user customized processed medical information to a number of users such as within the output with at least a portion of the user customized processed medical information being provided to each of the users based on its relevancy to each user s specific function or role and each user s associated security privileges.

The processor in some embodiments includes display and visualization executing on one or more servers which may be any suitable computing engine similar to the servers including but not limited to PCs or servers. The display is used to construct presentation and display information to users such as the patient s records billing information and other types of medical information. The display in some embodiments also performs processing of some of the functions of the processor .

The foregoing modules may be software programs executed by a computer or computing engine of suitable sorts or may be implemented in hardware.

The interface in some embodiments is a software program that executes on one or more servers which can be a server of any kind of suitable computing engine such as personal computer PC . The servers receive secure information through the link from the sources . The processor in some embodiments includes the module and one or more servers which may be any suitable computing engine similar to the servers including but not limited to PCs or servers.

The module and servers perform the tasks discussed above relative to the processor and the display and servers perform the tasks discussed above relative to the processor though these processors may and often perform additional tasks related to medical information some examples of which are presented and discussed below and the rest of which are contemplated and achieve the various advantages results and functions presented herein.

The processor in some embodiments includes display and visualization executing on one or more servers which may be any suitable computing engine similar to the servers including but not limited to PCs or servers. The display is used to construct presentation and display information to users such as the patient s records billing information and other types of medical information. The display in some embodiments also performs processing of some of the functions of the processor .

As shown in the servers are coupled to the module and the servers and to the display and the servers and the module and servers are coupled to the display and the servers .

In some embodiments the interface servers module servers display and servers are remotely located relative to the sources and in some embodiments remotely located relative to one another. Further they are considered a part of the Internet cloud where performing their tasks in a manner known as cloud computing . However other manner of achieving the functions and advantages of the invention including various other of implementation not shown in or other figures herein and or not discussed are contemplated.

The engine advantageously learns through history ontology user input the type of user and a host of other factors similarities between various information from the data defines characteristics thereof models this information conceptually pre selects and sorts information before providing it the block for presentation in the form of a display or other known types of presentations. Such processing entails the use of various sets of rules at various stages as will be evident shortly relative to subsequent figures and discussions.

Presentation by the block is intent based that is the user of the module along with history and other factors are used to determine the information to be presented. With time as the engine s knowledge of medical information such as drugs type of users diagnosis the relationship between various diagnosis diseases relative to each other and relative to various medications and other information increases the information presented by becomes increasingly intent based.

The engine is shown to include a conceptual model block which conceptually models the data such as to determine similarities an example of which is provided and discussed in subsequent figures.

A set of similarity rules which identify similarities of various types of information and define characteristics thereof is shown being utilized by the reconciler . The rules are applied to the data to identify similar concepts which unlike prior art techniques is not to look for matches and rather to correlate information based on concepts. Through feedback from users this becomes a learned process with improved and more sophisticated conceptual similarity detection. The similarity mapper maps the reconciled information generated by the reconciler .

Another set of rules namely a set of clustering rules is provided to the presentation cluster block for determining which information if any to cluster or group. The block also receives as input user intent query from a user and applies the rules to the latter. The rules are used by the block to group information received from the mapper based on the user intent query and in the process additional apply a set of dynamics time rules thereto. The rules serve to identify what is to be looked at to find what has information has been changed over time. In this respect feedback from the user through is utilized. Similarly the rules utilize feedback from the user. Additionally feedback from the user is utilized at to accumulate concept based information and definitions in a Wiki style fashion.

The presentation cluster block generates output data clusters . The cluster information may be displayed and or presented in other manners such as with an Application Programming Interface API and it further may receive user feedback and use the same to further refine rules for clustering and similarity mappings.

The rules and are independent of one another in some embodiments of the invention. In other embodiments information flows there between. Advantageously these rules partly because they are applied at different stages in the processing of the data allow for a learned and conceptualized process as opposed to a hard decision. For example in current techniques where only one set of rules are utilized early on in the processing of the data a hard decision is made with no flexibility to alter this decision thereby increasing the risk of mis categorization and or identification of relevant information. In contrast thereto the different sets of rules of the embodiment of breakdown categories such as similarity display and history allows configuration of various aspects thereof.

By way of example in prior art techniques where the data is regarding electronic devices and a cell phone is to be identified where the single set of rules made early on in the process is based on the lack of a keyboard and a central processing unit the device may be erroneously identified as an electronic tablet with no recourse. Whereas the embodiment of allows for progressive learning of various attributes of the device by for example using the above exemplary rules as the rules but based on the rules and introducing attributes such as size of the device that allow for a more accurate identification of the device. And further due to the user feedback and query allow for dynamically altering the rules.

Use of various rules such as rules and at various stages of processing allows flexibility in applying the rules to achieve greater accuracy of clustering. In medical applications in particular information is oftentimes duplicated for various reasons such as lack of standardization of names of medications shorthand identification of information and a slew of other reasons. In this regard flexibility of applying rules is vital. While three sets of rules are shown in the figures and discussed herein relative to various embodiments it is understand that a different number of rules may be employed.

For a better understanding of the flexibility the rules of offer an example is now presented. Suppose the data carries medical information for which a particular condition e.g. diabetes is to be detected. Rule allows for a similarity between lab results and diabetes to be identified but that is nearly where the application of rule ends until further information is known and extracted later in the processing of the data . Namely when rule is applied to the outcome identified by Rule the lab results are crawled or inspected for diabetes or another identifier for diabetes . Additionally the presence of various relevant labs is detected and the association between the presence of the labs and the problem of diabetes and perhaps hemoglobin A1c a measure of average blood glucose concentration over the past 30 to 120 days used in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes is made. Next the rule is applied to the outcome of the application of rule where patient data is used or a correlation between a problem and a treatment for a large percent of the patient population is made. Specifically the percentage of patients with diabetes is detected. The parameter of time allows for the latter detection otherwise for example at the application of rule or even rule a large patient base could not have been correlated.

The user input at and the user feedback at all help in the clustering of data. At the application of rule a determination is made as to how things are similar until a user asks about the similarity after which a more educated application of rules is performed. Thus no decision is made until the end or at the output of the block in real time.

During the application of rule the system is informed of key parameters but not how to put the data together. Then during the application of the rule the system is informed of how to put the data together cluster by aligning the data in a particular manner. Application of rule determines how things change over time or not but not what the correlation or similarity actually is which is generally done through the rule . Part of the reason for splitting the rules is to delay decision making as long as possible in an effort to cleverly use more information such as that provided by the user for an increasingly accurate finding.

The outcome of the data cluster can be transmitted to another processor system user or any other entity.

Another example of the manner rules are employed outside of the medical community is for example in determining parameters of hair where rule is used to look for length of hair and rule uses the outcome of the length of hair to further determine alopecia as compared with normal hair growth. Rule may then be used to determine a percentage of a demographic that has experienced baldness. Further examples of the application of these rules is shown and discussed relative to .

As with the blocks of the MINE of it is understood that the blocks shown in such as block and and may be independently a machine and or processor or a part of a machine and or processor. They may alternatively be carried out in software programs.

Using the same example rules and may be applied to the outcome of the rule to the data to determine other information based on the intent of the user. For example the dosage of Ibuprofen from all sources even those with other ingredients may be determined by applying rule after applying rule such that the outcome of rule detects Ibuprofen types of medications and rule narrows the detection to those with a threshold dosage.

For further clarification in the example of Advil and Ibuprofen if the intent is to investigate whether the current dosage of Ibuprofen is too high all sources of ibuprofen even those with other ingredients are better to be identified in which case the set m may represent all sources. The date may also be an indicator such as the last day or week this medication was prescribed or consumed and may accordingly be a part of the set m . In contrast if contributors to or indicators of of a chronic condition is the intent a longer history months years and the chronic condition itself would be related despite low similarity . Thus through the flexibility of the application of various rules such as rules and there can be different ways of displaying information from the data clusters about a concept under different intents.

By way of further explanation the rules are used to determine what is considered inside the cluster and the rules is how things in the cluster change over time. Though in other embodiments other types of rules are anticipated and other numbers of rules are anticipated. Using the Advil Ibuprofen example above the rules are used to determine whether other medicines belong in the display cluster for instance if they contain Ibuprofen but they also contain other things such as sleep aid Comtrex that may or may not belong in the display cluster. The embodiment of advantageously learns whether they belong or not. Through the rule the Ibuprofen cluster might emphasize recent events past week in the ranking. Other clusters may interact differently with time.

In at step an automatic or manual or a combination of attribute selection is performed by applying rules and in accordance with a method and embodiment of the invention. Accordingly attributes to be included in clustering are selected. For example for a presentation of medications several attributes might be included. To present results to a user another machine processor or the like for a medication history intent medication brand name generic name coding system drug code and ingredient might be selected. This may be done by a user manually or automatically by the block in an exemplary embodiment of the invention.

Next at step the criteria for clustering relevant combinations is defined manually automatically or using a combination thereof. The matching criteria for each of these attributes are defined as a maximum distance along with an appropriate definition of distance. Examples of maximum match distance are exact match close match loose match or distance

Next at the distance between the data s attributes and cluster is computed. For example it is determined whether all distances are less than the maximum distance threshold and if so the cluster is updated to include such data in the presentation at step otherwise step such data is rejected not included in the cluster.

While this invention has been described in terms of several embodiments there are alterations modifications permutations and substitute equivalents which fall within the scope of this invention. Hence it should also be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing the methods and apparatuses of the present invention. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims be interpreted as including all such alterations modifications permutations and substitute equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention.

