---

title: Transitioning an interface to a neighboring image
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for transitioning an interface to a related image are provided. A method for transitioning an interface to a related image may include receiving information describing a homography between a first image and a second image, and adjusting the interface to present the second image at one or more transition intervals in a transition period until the second image is fully displayed and the first image is no longer visible. The interface may be adjusted by determining, based on the homography, a region of the second image to overlay onto a corresponding area of the first image, blending the determined region with the corresponding area to reduce visible seams occurring between the first image and the second image, and updating the interface by gradually decreasing visual intensity of the first image while gradually and proportionally increasing visual intensity of the second image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788968&OS=08788968&RS=08788968
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08788968
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120604
---
Online map services enable users to explore maps locate points of interest plan trips obtain driving directions and view real time driving conditions. In addition several web based mapping services also provide 360 degree street level panoramas that users can view and navigate.

The images used to create the panoramas are captured for example by mounting specially designed cameras onto vehicles. Each camera may include multiple lenses to record an environment from a full 360 degree perspective while the vehicle moves along a roadway. The recorded imagery is then used to create the panoramas which enable users to virtually explore a geographic location using a web browser.

In addition smartphones equipped with one or more high quality digital cameras GPS abundant storage space and mobile broadband have become common throughout the world. These powerful devices enable users to easily capture and distribute photographs and video content and have contributed to the surge of shared imagery available on the internet.

Many of the available images include location information such as latitude and longitude which allow an image to be associated with maps and other geolocated imagery.

Embodiments generally relate to transitioning an interface from a first displayed image to a related image. In one embodiment a method for transitioning an interface to a related image includes receiving information describing a homography between a first image and a second image receiving a user selection to transition the interface from the first image to the second image and adjusting the interface to present the second image at one or more transition intervals in a transition period until the second image is fully displayed and the first image is no longer visible. The interface is adjusted by determining based on the homography a region of the second image to overlay onto a corresponding area of the first image blending the determined region with the corresponding area to reduce visible seams occurring between the first image and the second image and updating the interface by gradually decreasing visual intensity of the first image while gradually and proportionally increasing visual intensity of the second image.

In another embodiment a system for transitioning an interface to a related image includes a processor a content receiver module a selection processor module and a user interface display module. The content receiver module is configured to receive information describing a homography between a first image and a second image. The selection processor module is configured to receive a user selection to transition the interface from the first image to the second image. The user interface display module is configured to adjust the interface to present the second image at one or more transition intervals in a transition period until the second image is fully displayed and the first image is no longer visible by determining based on the homography a region of the second image to overlay onto a corresponding area of the first image blending the determined region with the corresponding area to reduce visible seams occurring between the first image and the second image and updating the interface by gradually decreasing visual intensity of the first image while gradually and proportionally increasing visual intensity of the second image.

In an additional embodiment a computer readable storage medium has control logic recorded thereon that when executed by a processor causes the processor to transition an interface to a related image. The control logic includes computer readable program code to cause the processor to receive information describing a homography between a first image and a second image receive a user selection to transition the interface from the first image to the second image and adjust the interface to present the second image at one or more transition intervals in a transition period until the second image is fully displayed and the first image is no longer visible. The control logic also includes computer readable program code to adjust the interface by determining based on the homography a region of the second image to overlay onto a corresponding area of the first image blending the determined region with the corresponding area to reduce visible seams occurring between the first image and the second image and updating the interface by gradually decreasing visual intensity of the first image while gradually and proportionally increasing visual intensity of the second image.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

The features and advantages of embodiments will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those skilled in the art with access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the invention would be of significant utility.

It is noted that references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it would be within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to incorporate such a feature structure or characteristic with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments include methods and systems for transitioning an interface from a first image to a related image.

Online map services present maps directions and other beneficial information to users. Additionally millions of shared geolocated images capture points of interest and other locations at different times and from various perspectives. In the embodiments described below improved techniques for transitioning an interface between related geolocated images are provided.

For example a user viewing a geolocated image in a web browser interface may be presented with one or more indications of available imagery capturing at least some portion of the same scene. The user may transition the interface from a displayed image to an available image by performing one or more actions such as clicking a button one or more motions such as swiping or scrolling or a combination of at least one action and at least one motion. However the source and destination images may have been taken at different times from different angles with different background scenery and with different photographic properties. Such differences could lead to an awkward and visually disruptive transition between the images which may include flickering choppiness and other visual abnormalities that can distract and annoy a user.

In an embodiment the interface is configured to present a smooth and consistent transition between related images by incrementally transitioning and blending the images at one or more transition intervals. For example the image displayed in the interface is gradually faded out at one or more transition intervals while a related image is gradually faded in at the one or more transition intervals. In addition the images are also blended at one or more of the transition intervals based on matching features. The blending reduces visible edges occurring at areas of overlap and the presence of other differences that may exist between the images including but not limited to variance in color and brightness. This results in a smoother and more seamless transition between two related images.

For example according to an embodiment a user may select a photograph of a landmark from a map panorama or other user interface provided in a web browser. A corresponding request which may include a geographic location associated with the selection is then sent to a map service provider.

The online map service searches through information it has collected and compiled about available imagery and returns image information to the user s computing device for processing. The image information may indicate one or more online source of each available image one or more image properties of each available image the geographic location associated with each available image and information indicating and or describing one or more relationships that may exist between the first image and one or more of the available images.

In one example available images are considered to be geographically related to the first image because each image is associated with a location in roughly the same geographic vicinity. In another example the available images are further related to the first image because the available images include some of the same content and or scenery as the first image. For example the first image may be a photograph taken of a landmark which may also appear at different angles perspectives and distances in the available images. Further a number of available images may capture some of the same buildings and background scenery near the landmark but not the landmark itself.

The available images capturing at least some of the same objects and scenery as the first image are spatially related to the first image. Such a relationship can be represented as a homography. A homography describes the transition of a perceived view of an observed object e.g. the landmark in the above example embodiments when the point of observation is changed. This means that a view provided by a photograph of the monument taken from the air can be mapped to another view of the monument captured in a photograph taken from the ground. Further homographies may be described mathematically as projective transformations.

In an embodiment information describing a homography between the first image and an available image may be used to configure format and annotate the interface prior to displaying the first image. For example one or more graphical representations may be displayed with the first image to indicate availability of other images having a homography with the first image.

In one embodiment a selectable button may be superimposed on the first image near the right edge to indicate an available image positioned to the right of the first image as indicated by a homography. Other types of graphical representations may include directional symbols such as arrows which may in addition to their position within the interface indicate the location or direction of available imagery in relation to the first image. In other embodiments graphical representations also may indicate opportunities to zoom in or out from a scene captured by the first image using one or more available images.

In another embodiment the user selects an image to display from one of the available images. For example the user may click a graphical representation indicating an available image or may click and drag the first image to display the second image. Further the user may completely control the transition during the motion meaning the transition between the first image and the available image may occur in proportion to the distance and speed at which the user performs the motion. In an embodiment the user may also pause the transition by ceasing the motion. In an additional embodiment the user may also reverse the direction of the transition by reversing the direction of the motion. Various motions such as scrolling swiping and dragging can be used to transition from the first image to an available image.

In an embodiment a transition period duration and a number of transition intervals transition points are determined to transition the interface from the first image to an available image. The interface is then gradually adjusted at one or more of the determined intervals where a determined region of the available image is blended onto a matching area of the first image to reduce noticeable seams and other visual differences that may exist.

In another embodiment two or more images may be blended to match differences in color and to reduce other noticeable differences that may appear at aligned or overlapping areas. For example image blending may be performed to blend and smooth a visible seam caused by color and lighting differences between two different images. Additionally the interface is updated at one or more of the determined intervals by gradually decreasing the visual intensity of the first image while gradually and proportionally increasing the intensity of the available image. The blending and fading occur at one or more transition intervals until the available image is fully displayed in the interface and the first image is no longer visible. Thus the features of first image are gradually phased out of the interface while the features of the available image are gradually and in some embodiments proportionally phased into the interface.

In an exemplary embodiment multi band blending is applied at one or more transition intervals to provide a smooth and near seamless transition between the images. Multi band blending reduces variation between the images so that images more closely resemble one another. Such variations are likely to occur when selecting images of the same scenery from photo sharing sources on the interne considering the very small likelihood that user provided photographs were captured at the exact same time under the same conditions and with the same visual properties . Multi band blending allows image differences and other visual distractions to be minimized thus improving the presentation and visual transition between related imagery.

The area within region represents the content area of second image while image represents the entire content area provided by first image . Image as illustrated through region provides a close up view of house and a portion of surrounding scenery provided in image

First image and second image both include house . However while first image includes left neighboring house and right neighboring house in their entirety second image only includes a portion of left neighboring house and a portion of right neighboring house . Further second image introduces passerby and a dark background which are not present in first image . Additionally first image includes tree which is not present in second image

Image illustrates how features of second image may be incrementally introduced and blended with portions of first image as part of a transition between the related images. For example blending of image features may occur as part of the transition to reduce visible seams and other visual differences that may occur based on differences in image quality coloring perspective and content.

In image graphical content within previously presented region representing second image is overlaid onto and blended with the corresponding area of first image . For example house from second image is matched and blended with house from first image to produce house as illustrated by dashed lines . A large portion of right neighboring house is similarly produced. Other areas such as the majority of left neighboring house and tree initially may remain unaltered as in image but will be gradually faded out during additional transition intervals as features of second image increase in strength and features of first image are gradually phased out. Background represents a first phase of gradual blending during a transition from a clear background to a dark background . In addition passerby is gradually introduced because it does not exist in first image but is included in second image

Image illustrates how content present in first image may be progressively faded out while features of a second image may be correspondingly faded in as part of a transition from image to image . Further image content may be blended during the transition between images to reduce visible seams and other noticeable differences resulting from different image qualities colors viewpoints and content.

For example a portion of left neighboring house a portion of right neighboring house and tree are increasingly faded out during the progression of the transition from image to as illustrated by dashed lines . At the same time visual intensity of content included second image such as house and passerby is increased. Further background is blended to produce a consistent shade which is darker than background but lighter than background

According to an embodiment client or any combination of its components may be part of or may be implemented using one or more client based computing devices. For example client may be any computing device designed for personal use by a user or integrated with other systems or devices for use by an end user. Client may include any computing device such as a desktop computer laptop tablet mobile phone smartphone gaming system navigation device portable media player mobile device electronic device and computing devices embedded into other systems including but not limited to automobiles and appliances.

Such computing devices may include software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. Software may include one or more applications and an operating system. Hardware may include but is not limited to a processor memory input and output devices storage devices and user interface display. Client also may include any other type of computer system having at least one processor and memory. In addition client may include its own display or may interact with one or more other systems and devices which include a display capable of providing graphical content to an end user.

Client server or any combination of components used to implement system can be configured to access content hosted on servers over a network . The network can be any network or combination of networks that can carry data communications. Such a network can include but is not limited to a wired e.g. Ethernet or a wireless e.g. Wi Fi and 4G network. In addition the network may include but is not limited to a local area network and or wide area network. The network can support protocols and technology including but not limited to Internet or World Wide Web protocols and or services. Intermediate network routers gateways or servers may be provided between servers and clients depending upon a particular application or environment.

According to another embodiment server or any combination of its components may be part of or may be implemented using one or more server based computing devices. Such server based computing devices may include but are not limited to one or more standalone servers distributed computing systems clustered computer systems cloud computer systems grid computer systems embedded systems stand alone electronic devices networked devices rack servers set top boxes or any other type of computer system having at least one processor and memory.

According to other embodiments one or more server components may exist on client . Additionally one or more client components may exist on server .

Client includes a module for transitioning an interface to a related image which further includes selection processor module content request module content receiver module image processing module user interface display module and user preference manager . Selection processor module performs various tasks associated with identifying and handling user input received from a user interface. In one embodiment selection processor module may perform detection collection analysis processing and routing of user requests received from a user interface.

In another embodiment content request module requests image information and other content from server . According to another embodiment content request module may directly request image information and image content from other applications and systems such as image database third party application and publicly available images .

According to an embodiment content receiver module receives image information and image content from server . For example content receiver module may receive images and other content from one or more other systems and applications such as image database third party application and publicly available images .

Image processing module performs analysis processing and modification of imagery available to client . According to an embodiment image processing module is configured to work with multiple image types including one or more of 2D images 3D images panoramic imagery video content etc. Image processing module may determine image properties by directly analyzing visual content of an image. Image processing module also may analyze and process data describing various attributes associated with an image.

According to another embodiment image processing module may be configured to determine that one or more relationships exist between a plurality of imagery. For example image processing module may identify a geographic relationship or homography between images by analyzing and interpreting image content image properties and other available information which may indicate of describe a relationship between images.

User interface display module manages rendering and display of content and images on client . According to an embodiment user interface display module may perform additional processing on any content or images that it receives and also may display content and images without any additional modification or processing. Further user interface display module may modify content and images based on performance and display capabilities of the computer system associated with client .

User preference manager enables a user to manage and save user preferences associated with a module for transitioning an interface to a related image . According to an embodiment user preference manager may be configured to allow users to specify one or more types sources properties and qualities of imagery for retrieval and display by a module for transitioning to a related image . User preference manager also may be configured to allow users to rank filter and exclude various types of available imagery by image type image source and or one or more image properties.

Network represents a system of interconnected computer networks which client may use to communicate with any external system or application including server image database third party application and publicly available images . According to other embodiments communication between client and other computer systems and software applications is not limited to the internet and may occur using any type of network including local private wired and wireless computer network.

Server includes client request processor image retriever image processor and image provider . Further server may interact with one or more additional systems providing direct or indirect access to image database third party application and publicly available images .

Client request processor receives incoming requests from client . According to an embodiment client request processor may receive process delegate and forward incoming requests received from client . According to another embodiment client request processor may interact with image retriever image processor and image provider to process and respond to requests from client .

Image retriever obtains available images and or available image data from one or more systems applications and databases which may be located on server or one or more external computer systems. Image retriever also may obtain available images and information about available images from image database third party application and publicly available images .

Image processor is used to process analyze gather and store information about images. According to an embodiment image processor receives images and information about images from image retriever . Image processor then may gather additional information about the images analyze the images extract image properties extract image features match image features and determine relationships among images. Further image processor also may generate index and store information about the images and image relationships. Image processor also may be configured to facilitate storage of image content including actual images or reduced size versions of images. Results of image processing may be stored on server in image database and on one or more other computer systems. Further image processing results may be retrieved and referenced as part of handling requests from client .

Image provider is responsible for returning imagery and image related information to client . According to an embodiment image provider returns information about images for a geographic location based on a request from client . For example image provider may provide an online location for an image details about the properties or qualities of an image and information describing image relationships.

Image database represents a collection of available imagery and information describing the imagery. According to an embodiment image database may contain original images modified images image copies and links to available images. Additionally image database may contain information about an image including one or more online locations a geographical location associated with an image image properties and details about one or more image relationships.

Third party application may include any application or website where shared imagery is accessible. According to an embodiment image processor may be configured to gather information about shared photographs from one or more third party applications such as photo sharing and social networking websites either directly or through an application programming interface.

Publicly available images may include any shared images that are accessible on the internet. Publicly available images may exist as content displayed on individual websites and may be images presented in photo galleries image collections and online databases. Further publicly available images and associated information may be located or collected by one or more applications including search engine processes configured to identify retrieve and index web content.

According to an embodiment a user may select a first image by clicking an indication of an available image that has been presented with a map interface. According to another embodiment a user may select an indication of an available image that is presented with panoramic imagery. According to additional embodiments a user may select a geolocated image using any available features provided by an application or web interface. Stage may be performed by for example selection processor module which may receive and process user requests.

At stage information regarding one or more available images associated with the geographic location is received. According to an embodiment content request module submits a request to server to obtain information about imagery near the geographic location of the first image. Client request processor receives and processes the request. Image provider uses data previously gathered and determined by image processor to identify relevant images and image information that will be returned to client . Stage may be performed by for example content receiver module .

At stage the existence of a homography between the first image and one or more of the images associated with the geographic location is determined. According to an embodiment image processing module analyzes incoming information about the one or more available images previously determined by image processor . The information may describe one or more relationships between the first image and the available images received in stage .

According to an alternative embodiment image processing module may perform feature identification and feature matching on one or more images to determine that a homography exists between two images. For example image processing module may extract one or more features present in the first image extract one or more features present in the second image and match one or more features extracted from the first image with one or more features extracted from the second image. Stage may be performed by for example image processing module .

At stage the first image is presented in an interface with at least one graphical representation indicating the availability of one or more related images. According to an embodiment the first selected image is displayed in a web browser on client . Stage may be performed by for example user interface display module .

At stage a second user selection to display a second image is received. In an embodiment the second image may have the same image type as the first image. For example the second selection performed by the user enables the user to transition to another two dimensional photograph or from one scene of a navigable panorama to another. In an alternative embodiment a user may transition between different image types. For example the user may transition from a two dimensional image to a panorama or vice versa . Stage may be performed by for example selection processor module .

At stage a transition period and a set of transition intervals are determined for transitioning from the first image to the second image based on the determined homography. According to an embodiment the transition period and the number of transition intervals each may be based on their own configuration values. For example a transition period of one second may be defined for every transition. Further every transition period may have ten transition intervals with each transition interval occurring at every tenth of a second throughout the transition period.

According to another embodiment one or both the transition period and the number of transition intervals may be determined dynamically. For example the transition period and or the number of transition intervals within the transition period may be based on one or more of the quality of the first image the quality of the second image the number of matching features in the first and the second image details of the homography between the first and the second image and the processing capabilities of client . Stage may be performed by for example user interface display module .

At stage the interface is incrementally adjusted to gradually present the second image during one or more of the determined transition intervals while also gradually removing the first image from the interface. The adjusting is performed continually until the second image is fully displayed in the interface and the first image is no longer visible.

In an embodiment the adjusting may be performed at one or more of the transition intervals by first determining a region of the second image to blend with a corresponding area of the first image based on the homography. A region of the second image and or a corresponding area of the first image may be determined prior to or during one or more of the transition intervals. In addition the region of the second image and or the corresponding area of the first image may be determined based on one or more of matching features within the first image and the second image size and or shape of the first image size and or shape of the second image total transition duration remaining transition duration a total number of transition intervals a number of remaining number of transition intervals processing capabilities of client and graphical presentation capabilities of client .

In an embodiment the determined region of the second image may be overlaid onto the corresponding area of the first image and one or more portions of each may be blended together to provide and or enhance visual consistency between the image content. For example blending may be performed at one or more of the transition intervals to reduce visible seams and other noticeable differences occurring when the determined region of the second image is overlaid aligned matched and or combined with the corresponding area of the first image. Blending also may be used to reduce and alleviate other visible differences between images which may occur for example due to differences in one or more of image background coloring lighting perspective qualities and other image properties and features.

In another embodiment the interface may be updated at one or more of the transition intervals to progressively fade out the first image by gradually decreasing its visual intensity and presence within the interface. Further the second image may be gradually and correspondingly faded in by increasing its visual intensity and presence within the interface. For example visual intensity of images may be adjusted proportionally based on a number of transition intervals within a transition period. Thus visual intensity of an image would be increased decreased by 10 percent for a transition period having ten transition intervals. In other embodiments images may be faded in and out at varying degrees. The coordinated blending fading and adjusting described in the embodiments above allow the interface to be smoothly and consistently transitioned from the first image to the second image.

In an exemplary embodiment multi band blending is used to blend image content and reduce the presence of noticeable seams and other visual inconsistencies that may exist between two different images. Multi band blending may be used to help alleviate variations in image content such as color brightness and quality which may occur when matching and combining publicly shared images because such images are very likely to have been captured at different times by different authors using different equipment according to different settings and perhaps with different surroundings. Multi band blending allows variations to be blended for consistency while preserving the quality of the details provided by each image. Stage may be performed by for example user interface display module .

Method begins at stage when a user request to display a geographic map or panoramic imagery is received. According to an embodiment a user may initiate a request to display a map or panorama by textually specifying an address or a geographic location using functionality provided by an online map service. A user also may graphically select such content by interacting with geolocated images displayed in an interface. For example a user may click or zoom on a previously displayed map that has been presented in a web browser interface. Stage may be performed by for example selection processor module which may receive and process user selections from an interface.

At stage a first user selection to display a first image associated with a geographic location is received. An image may be any two dimensional or three dimensional content captured by an optical device. For example an image may be a 2D image a 3D image panoramic imagery video content etc.

According to an embodiment a user may select a first image based on a link or indication of the image that is presented with a map or other image based content. According to another embodiment a user may select the first image by specifying a file name choosing a file or performing any other process that allows the user to specify the first image for selection.

In some embodiments the first image is a geolocated image that includes geospatial metadata and may include at least one or more of positional coordinates latitude and longitude altitude bearing distance accuracy and location name. In other embodiments geographical metadata may be stored separately and apart from the image. For example geographical metadata for an image may exist in a separate file database or other location. Such information may be referenced based on a unique identifier associated with the image. Stage also may be performed by for example selection processor module .

At stage client sends a request for images related to the geographic location associated with the first image. According to an embodiment client requests information about images near the geographic location of the first image. Client may request information about images and actual image content from one or more of server image database third party application publicly available images and one or more other computer systems.

According to another embodiment client sends a first request for information about imagery for a geographic location to server . Next client receives a response from server containing the requested information. Client then may send one or more additional requests for image content or information about images to server image database third party application publicly available images and one or more other computer systems based on the response. For example server may provide information about images that client uses for obtaining image content. Stage may be performed by for example selection processor module .

At stage client receives information about one or more other images associated with the geographic location of the first image. According to an embodiment client receives information about images in response to a request it has made. In another embodiment image information may be pushed to client from one or more external sources. Stage may be performed by for example content receiver module .

At stage information describing a homography between the first image and the second image is received. According to an embodiment such information may be used to provide additional visual content and annotations for display with the first image in the interface. Stage may be performed by for example content receiver module .

At stage the first image selected by the user is presented in an interface with at least one graphical representation indicating availability of the second image. According to an embodiment the positioning and attributes of content and indications of other available imagery may be determined based on a homography that exists between the first image and the second image. Indicators of other available geolocated imagery may include graphical icons text shading thumbnail images and other visual ways of notifying the user about the availability of other imagery. For example the availability of a second image may be indicated by superimposing a thumbnail version of the second image onto the first image which could be a panorama or other type of image. In addition the location of where the thumbnail of the second image is positioned on the first image may be based on a homography existing between the first image and the second image. Further indications of other available imagery may be presented or suppressed based on one or more user preferences which may include image type image source one or more image properties and one or more visual qualities of an image. Stage may be performed by for example user interface display module .

At stage a second user selection to display the second image in the interface is received. According to an embodiment the second user selection initiates the process of adjusting the interface from the first image to the second image. Stage may be performed by for example selection processor module .

At stage a transition period and one or more transition intervals for the transition period are determined for transitioning the interface from the first image to the second image. According to an embodiment a transition period is a measurement of time used to complete an entire transition from the first image to the second image. The transition period includes one or more transition intervals or transition points where image blending fading and or image alteration may occur to provide a smooth transition from the first image to the second image.

Image alteration generally refers to the modification of an image and or image content which may include shrinking expanding and cropping an image. For example in an embodiment portions of the first image and or the second image may be modified at any point during the transition between the first image and the second image to facilitate presentation. Further image manipulation also may include but is not limited to modifying one or more image characteristics such as background lighting within an image image brightness image contrast image color image texture image size image shape image quality and other image properties.

At stage the interface is adjusted to present the second image at one or more of the determined transition intervals until the second image is fully displayed and the first image is no longer visible. According to an embodiment the second image may be incrementally introduced and blended with the first image at each transition interval. For example the features of the second image may increase in number and in prominence at each transition interval while features of the first image may be reduced in number and gradually phased out at each subsequent transition interval. Such introduction and removal of features during image transitioning may be aided for example by using fading and or dissolving techniques. Further adjustment of the interface may be accomplished for example by updating the interface to display each transition interval in a sequence for an entire transition duration period.

In another embodiment a region of the second image and a matching corresponding area of the first image may be determined for each transition interval. For example the region and corresponding area may be based on a number of matching features within the first image and the second image. The determined region and corresponding area may also be based on image size image features determinations made for one or more previous transition intervals and or determinations made for one or more subsequent transition intervals. In addition the region and corresponding area determined for a particular transition interval respectfully may be smaller larger or entirely different as compared to determinations made for previous or subsequent intervals.

In an embodiment one or more portions of the second image are blended with the first image at each transition interval as part of the transition to smooth edges reduce visible seams and minimize the presence of other differences that may become noticeable when sections of related but different images are aligned and or combined. For example image coloring quality brightness background lighting and other properties may differ slightly or dramatically between two different images that capture the same scenery. Such differences may be blended uniformly or at varying and incremental degrees throughout the transition between images.

In an embodiment the system and components of embodiments described herein are implemented using well known computers such as example computer system shown in . For example system client module for transitioning an interface to a related image server image database third party application and additional embodiments for transitioning an interface to a related image may be implemented using one or more computer systems such as example computer system .

Computer system includes one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure .

Computer system also includes a main or primary memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored control logic computer software and data.

Computer system may also include one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage device includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards and memory sticks. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

Removable storage drive may interact with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage device having stored thereon computer software control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive may read from and or write to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer system also includes input output display devices such as monitors keyboards pointing devices etc. which communicate with communication infrastructure through a display interface .

Computer system further includes a communication or network interface . Communication interface may enable computer system to communicate with remote devices. For example communication interface may allow computer system to communicate over communications path such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Communications interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Any tangible apparatus or article of manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored thereon is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to computer system main memory secondary storage device and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored thereon that when executed by one or more data processing devices causes such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used. Embodiments are applicable to both a client and to a server or a combination of both.

The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

Embodiments have been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described embodiments.

In addition the foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

