---

title: Systems, methods, and media for providing a digital photo archive
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for providing a digital photo archive are provided. In some embodiments, systems for providing a digital photo archive are provided, the systems comprising: at least one hardware processor that: collects a plurality of photos from a plurality of sources; collects a plurality of pieces of information from the plurality of sources; determines whether one of the plurality of photos is presently stored in the archive; stores the one of the plurality of photos in the archive only if the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to not be presently stored in the archive; and indicates to a user that the one of the plurality of photos is a duplicate photo if it is determined that the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to be presently stored in the archive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128958&OS=09128958&RS=09128958
owner: 
number: 09128958
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121120
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 562 415 filed Nov. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to an automated archival service for storing digital files of photos and information related to those photos over a network As used herein photos may include or refer alternatively to videos and information related to those videos. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods of updating an archive with additional photos and or related information.

Large numbers of digital files of photos are being created and stored on many computers and devices e.g. home computers friends computers digital cameras mobile phones etc. and with many online social or image networking services e.g. MySpace Flick and Facebook . Not surprisingly these photos are highly valued by those that created or received them.

Of equal value is the information related to the photos. This information may include for example where and when a photo was taken who is in the photo comments from loved ones other related photos various edits to the photo designated album and so on. This is analogous to what a person may do when organizing hardcopy photos. For example after having a roll of film developed and receiving a packet of photos a person may take the time to choose the photos most meaningful to them e.g. photos that capture an important memory . They may then write on the back of the photo the date it was taken and who is in the photo. The photo may then be placed in an album for the coffee table. This related information is usually very important and often grows in value as time goes on. People who tragically lose their home and possessions to for example a fire often say the family photographs are one of the few things that cannot be replaced.

With the onset of the digital age and the Internet the rate at which photos and their related information are created has increased dramatically. However without a method of saying these photos and the related information for future use these collections become ephemeral. For example large numbers of photos may be lost when users switch from one social network to another. Many photos also may be lost when a person replaces their old cell phone with a new smart phone.

Because of the ease with which digital files can be transferred people often end up with multiple copies of their files on different computers with different related data which makes management and long term storage of those files problematic. Current manual methods of backing up these photo files involve downloading the files to a local computer. There is currently no known logic to capture understand and organize the collection relevant to the related information. The result is often multiple copies of prized photos stored in a random folder on a hard drive which is just as unmanageable as scattered hardcopy photos found in drawers and shoe boxes throughout a house.

There is currently no known easy way of backing up copies of photos and related information should for example users abandon their current social networking or hosting service or have their online account compromised. If a person routinely backs up their photos from e.g. their digital camera cell phone social network and or online photo service they may very likely end up with four or more copies of every photo many directories and no cohesive collection of all the comments tags albums and other information they have associated with the photos. In particular no known photo archival service identifies whether a photo is a new submission or a copy of a photo already stored in the archive. Also there is no known photo archival service that collects stores and associates with a single record in the archive related photo information received from multiple sources for a particular photo. That is known archival services typically just create a new record for each piece of photo related information received.

Systems methods and media for providing as digital photo archive are provided. In some embodiments systems for providing a digital photo archive are provided the systems comprising at least one hardware processor that collects a plurality of photos from a plurality of sources collects a plurality of pieces of information from the plurality of sources determines whether one of the plurality of photos is presently stored in the archive stores the one of the plurality of photos in the archive only if the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to not be presently stored in the archive and indicates to a user that the one of the plurality of photos is a duplicate photo if it is determined that the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to be presently stored in the archive.

In some embodiments methods for providing a digital photo archive are provided the methods comprising collecting a plurality of photos from a plurality of sources collecting a plurality of pieces of information from the plurality of sources determining whether one of the plurality of photos is presently stored in the archive storing the one of the plurality of photos in the archive only if the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to not be presently stored in the archive and indicating to a user that the one of the plurality of photos is a duplicate photo if it is determined that the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to be presently stored in the archive.

In some embodiments non transitory computer readable medium containing computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method for providing a digital photo archive are provided the method comprising collecting a plurality of photos from a plurality of sources collecting a plurality of pieces of information from the plurality of sources determining whether one of the plurality of photos is presently stored in the archive storing the one of the plurality of photos in the archive only if the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to not be presently stored in the archive and indicating to a user that the one of the plurality of photos is a duplicate photo if it is determined that the one of the plurality of photos has been determined to be presently stored in the archive.

In accordance with some embodiment an archival service is provided that includes a central archive for a customer s photos and information related to the photos. As used herein the word photos may include or alternatively refer to videos and information related to the videos. Once set up archiving and organization of photos and their related information can be automatic. During collection of the photos and related information the archival service can identify whether a photo is a new submission or a copy of a photo already in the archive. If the photo is a copy no new record is created in the archive a duplicate photo is not stored in the archive . Related information from multiple sources for each photo can be collected stored and associated with a single record in the archive. If additional information is received regarding a photo that is already in the archive that information can be appended to the existing record and a new record need not be created. Photos can be collected from multiple sources and can be copied back for subsequent viewing or storage to the same sources or other destinations such as for example social networks photo sharing services a customer s computer and or any other suitable device. The entire archive also can be advantageously exported to other archiving services or digital media storage devices such as for example DVD ROM for long term preservation.

As shown in for each photo to be sent to the archive process can identify whether the photo is new at . If the photo is determined to be new process can package the photo and its related information into a larger file referred to herein as a file and information package FIP at . The FIP may have a structured format which may be in for example JSON JavaScript Object Notation XML Extensible Markup Language and or any other suitable format. Each piece of information may be added to the FIP as a data item DI . shows an example of an FIP in XML. The FIP can then also be sent to the archive receiving component at . At process can determine if the FIP was successfully received and if so the archive system can record the date and time of the successful archiving at . If the FIP transfer was determined to not be successful at the transfer can automatically be attempted again a preset number of times at .

If it is determined at that the photo has already been archived process can then determine if photo s binary contents have changed at . If so process can branch to to add the new binary to a FIP and transfer the FIP to the archive system. In some embodiments identifying changes in the binary content may be accomplished by associating a hash with each photo and comparing the hashes of photos at a source importer with photos in the archive. If a photo s hash has changed the photo s binary contents can be assumed to have changed.

In some embodiments if it is determined that a photo s binary contents have changed or the photo s hash has changed the new FIP can include the hash of one or more related photos such as the photo from which the current photo was derived . The archive system can then associate the new photo with an existing archive database photo entry as a child thereof. Every binary version of a photo can be archived and the parent child relationship recorded in some embodiments. Users customers can then have a backup of original photos as well as archived edited versions of those photos.

If it is determined at that the binary of a photo has not changed then for each piece of information for the photo process can determine whether information for the photo is new or has been updated at . If the information is new or updated process can create a FIP e.g. as described in connection with step and transfer that FIP to the archive system at and then branch to . Otherwise process can set the archive for the photo to the current date and time at .

Information about a photo can be packaged such that the type of information represented by the data is identified. For example comments may be labeled as type comment. This can allow archive system to store similar types of information from different sources as the same type of information.

If it is determined at that the photo is not already in the archive then process can store the photo and each data item in the FIP into the archive at and then end at . When being stored each data item can be associated with the photo in the archive database.

If it is determined at. that the photo is already in the archive then for each data item in the FIP process can determine if the data item has not been previously stored in the archive at . If so then process can store the data item in the archive database and associate with the data item with the existing photo s archive database record at and then end at .

Otherwise if it is determined at that the data item has been previously stored in the archive at then process can determine at if the data item contains updated information. If so process can then update the appropriate archive database data item record at and then end at .

Otherwise if it is determined at that this data item does not contain updated information then process can end at .

Entries in the archive database can be associated with a unique identifier using any suitable method. In some embodiments one or more records in the archive database can be associated with a respective user customer.

In some embodiments photos and their data items can be viewed and exported by archive publishing component .

In some embodiments a user can interact with component using a Web browser interface. In some embodiments archive publishing component may reside on an archive system server that can be accessed through a client such as may be provided on for example a tablet device. In some embodiments archive publishing component may be hosted on a Web site with an export feature that has access to archive database to allow browsing of stored photos and data items.

In some embodiments the photos and data items can be exported individually if desired from archive system . The data items can be rendered in an XML file in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the photos can be exported as a set. Archive publishing component may combine all the photos and XML files for corresponding data item files into a compressed archive file such as a ZIP file in some embodiments.

In some embodiments a user may desire to archive photos stored on a personal computer. The user may install a source importer as described above on the personal computer. The source importer may be implemented as constantly running software that the user can identify via a system tray icon or in some other suitable mariner supported by the computer s operating system. To configure the source importer the user may launch a configuration interface via for example a menu that may be made available by clicking the source importer icon. The configuration interface may allow the user to indicate which photos on the personal computer are subject to archiving. The interface may allow the user to indicate individual photos or trees of photo folders.

On a preferably routine schedule the source importer can scan all of the photos indicated for archiving in some embodiments. In some embodiments of the invention the source importer can store information for each photo in the scan in a database or text file on the personal computer. The information may include a file name a byte size a hash of the file and or any other suitable information. The source importer can also store in the local database or text file the unique identifier of the archive database entry for that photo if the photo had been successfully archived before. Note that information stored locally can also ultimately be stored in the archive system of the invention. However the local storage of this information can allow the source importer to make decisions on the personal computer without having to access the archive system. Note that some embodiments of the source importer may omit this feature and instead may have to access the archive system to determine the archival status of photos indicated for archiving.

If information regarding a photo to be archived is not already in the local database or text file the source importer can prepare a FIP and transfers the FIP via e.g. HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol or other suitable protocol to an archive receiving component see in . If the transfer fails the source importer may retry a set number of times see of . Upon success the source importer may record the successful archive date and time in both the local database and the entry in the archive database see in .

The source importer can store and determine whether a file has ever been archived. It can also store what the hash was at the time of the last archiving allowing it to determine whether the binary contents of the file have changed see in .

Some social networking service APIs may provide a method of labeling photos called tagging. in some of these cases the source importer can label a photo with a unique tag once the photo has been successfully archived at . By looking for the presence of this tag the source importer can determine if the photo has ever been archived see in . In some embodiments social networking service APIs may also provide methods for accessing the related information of a photo such as comments tags or placements in a collection called an album. In some embodiments social networking service APIs may further provide a method to access a Universal Resource Locator URL for an original photo. The source importer can use these methods to create a FIP for the photo and transfer it to the archive receiving component of the archive system.

In some embodiments social networking services do not provide a method for altering the binary contents of a photo so the photo s binary contents may not change see in . In these cases the source importer can still check for new or updated information related to the photos see in .

Some social networking service APIs can provide a method of accessing the photo s last modification date and time. This date and time can be set to the current date and time if there has been any changes to the existing related information or if new related information has been created. When a photo and its related information have been successfully archived the source importer can tag the photo with a tag unique to the archive system at . As mentioned above this can be used to identify photos that have been archived. The tag may also contain the name of the archive system and or a unique identifier that matches the photo s record in the data item. The unique identifier may be an incrementing primary key from the data item. An example of a unique identifier from the database may look like 1caab5c3b3. A hexadecimal number with ten digits such as this can be used to uniquely identify billions of photo records. An example of a tag may be something like or similar to SystemName 1caab5c3b3. 

The unique identifier in the data item can be matched to the photo s hash and the last successful archive date as stored in the archive system see of . If the photo s last modification date indicated by the social networking service API is after the last successful archive date of the photo the source importer can create a FIP to submit the new or updated related information to the archive receiving component see .

If the photo had already been tagged by the archive system the actual photo file binary does not have to be transferred again to the archive see .

In some embodiments because the archive receiving component does not create duplicate entries for submission with the same binary content the archive database can be configured to contain only one entry for every unique photo the user has uploaded to the social networking service. If the user has uploaded the same photo multiple times to the social networking service the archive database may still contain only one entry and associate all the comments and other related information from the multiple social networking service photos to the one archive entry.

For some social networking services the source importer does not need to run on a schedule. For example a social networking service API can provide a method for the source importer to be notified when the user has modified his or her user profile and the user s photos such as when photos have been added or comments entered. After an initial scan and import on installing the source importer as a social networking service application the archive system may subscribe to changes in the user s photos at . The social networking service can notify the archive system at by accessing a URL of the archive system with the user s social networking service login identification which can allow the archive system to activate that user s source importer for the social networking service. The source importer can then scan the user s photos at as described above.

In some embodiments the source importer does not unnecessarily poll the user s information stored with the social networking service. In some embodiments the source importer does not transfer the photo binary to the archive receiving component more than once. In some embodiments duplicate photos stored with the social networking service can be combined into one record in the archive system with all the related information from all of the original duplicates. In some embodiments newly added related information can be archived in a timely manner.

File source archive system sources of photos and archive system can be implemented using any suitable hardware in some embodiments. For example in some embodiments these components can be implemented using any suitable general purpose computer or special purpose computer. Any such general purpose computer or special purpose computer can include any suitable hardware. For example in some embodiments such hardware can include a hardware processor memory and or storage etc. Such a hardware processor can include any suitable hardware processor such as a microprocessor as micro controller digital signal processor dedicated logic and or any other suitable circuitry for controlling the functioning of a general purpose computer or special purpose computer in some embodiments. Such memory and or storage can be any suitable memory and or storage for storing programs data measurements etc in some embodiments. For example the memory and or storage can include random access memory read only memory flash memory hard disk storage optical media etc.

In some embodiments any suitable computer readable media can be used for storing instructions for performing the functions and or processes described herein. For example in some embodiments computer readable media can be transitory or non transitory. For example non transitory computer readable media can include media such as magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks etc. optical media such as compact discs digital video discs Blu ray discs etc. semiconductor media such as flash memory electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM etc. any suitable media that is not fleeting or devoid of any semblance of permanence during transmission and or any suitable tangible media. As another example transitory computer readable media can include signals on networks in wires conductors optical fibers circuits any suitable media that is fleeting and devoid of any semblance of permanence during transmission and or any suitable intangible media.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated in the foregoing illustrative embodiments it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which is only limited by the claim which follows. Features of the disclosed embodiments can be combined and rearranged in various ways.

