---

title: Methods and apparatus for sharing personal sensor data
abstract: A method and apparatus for sharing data regarding conditions sensed at one or more user-selected locations with others over the Internet generally or over Internet-accessed social networking systems using sensors located at user-selected locations and servers which are connected respectively to the Internet for communication with client devices or with social networking systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154559&OS=09154559&RS=09154559
owner: COMBEX, INC.
number: 09154559
owner_city: Lake Geneva
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121105
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 555 153 filed Nov. 3 2011.

This invention pertains to sharing data via the Internet and more particularly to methods and apparatus for sharing personal sensor data via and via the Internet social networking systems.

People often have a need or desire to share information regarding conditions sensed at user selected or personal locations such as weather and other data with others at remote locations. Such sensed conditions at personal locations are referred to herein as personal sensor data and the sensors themselves may be referred to as personal sensors. The Internet offers a particularly convenient means for sharing such personal sensor data and social networking services offer a particularly desirable vehicle for sharing such data.

Many social networking services are available for facilitating social relationships between people via the Internet. The popularity of social networking services derives at least in part from people s desires to interact over the Internet and to share information regarding their activities interests backgrounds and other personal characteristics. The popularity of social networking derives not only from the desire of individuals to disclose such personal information to others that access the social networking systems but also from others desire to learn and engage in dialogue regarding such personal information.

While sharing such information regarding an individual s activities interests etc. is already a focus of social networking services no one has previously taught or suggested sharing personal sensor data via social networking services. For example social networking service users may wish to use such networks to let others know weather conditions obtained by weather sensors positioned where the users are located. Or they may wish to position personal sensors to provide personal sensor data regarding soil moisture or temperature the presence of allergens sound levels pollen levels etc. to be shared over social networking systems.

In one embodiment the invention comprises a method for a user to share data regarding conditions sensed at user selected locations by selecting the locations and positioning one or more sensor at the locations. The sensors may be one or more types of weather sensors or they may be various different types of sensors as described in more detail below.

These sensors are communicatively coupled to one or more micro servers which gather and present the sensor data. The micro sensors may be integral with the sensors or they may be independent devices. The one or more micro servers are connected to the Internet whereby the data may be accessed over the Internet by a client device such as a smartphone or a laptop computer. Also the micro servers may provide data to social networking systems.

A data server may be provided to maintain a database of data collected or received from the micro servers. The data server also may provide a Web based graphical user interface presenting the data received or derived from the micro servers. Where the sensors are weather sensors the data server may generate weather forecasts. Also the data server may send one or more of text messages SMS messages email or RSS feeds to client devices. The data server may create instantiate install or initiate social networking applications that enable sharing of the sensor data on a social networking home page or other social networking display.

In another embodiment a method may be provided for sharing data regarding conditions sensed at one or more user selected locations with others over social networking systems. In accordance with this method a social networking server is supplied with an application to enable users to share sensor data received from a data server. Finally data obtained by one or more sensors and input to the data server is input therefrom to the social network server.

In yet another embodiment a process is embodied in program code or computer readable instructions stored on a tangible machine readable medium accessed by a computer for sharing data regarding conditions sensed at one or more user selected locations with others over social networking systems. The process includes new or additional sensor data received from a user selected location.

In a further embodiment a social networking application is modified updated created instantiated installed or initiated to enable sharing of the sensor data with connected friends family and colleagues. When new or additional sensor data is received the social networking application is updated.

In another embodiment an apparatus is provided for sharing data regarding conditions sensed by one or more sensors located at one or more user selected locations with others over social networking systems. A data server is also provided and operatively connected to the sensors for delivering the sensor data to others over social networking systems. The data server includes a database a data collection application programming interface to enable the sensors to provide data to the data server a data database for storing the sensor data a data displayer for presenting the data a sharer for initiating social networking applications that enable data sharing with the social networking system and a network interface for interfacing the data server with the Internet.

Methods apparatus and articles of manufacture for sharing location based sensor data such as weather data at user selected locations via the Internet generally and via social networking services in particular are disclosed herein. These methods and apparatus enable users to share sensor data from user selected locations like personal weather data or other sensor data collected at a user s home place of work or other place of interest to the user.

A social networking service is intended for present purposes to comprise an online service that facilitates social relations among social networking services users where each user has a profile containing one or more of his or her social links or friends as well as e.g. his or her interests selected photographs personal data such as birth dates marital status and other self descriptions recommendations and associated links etc. and other information related to the user. The social networking services are Web based and may enable users to interact over the Internet by for example e mail or instant messaging. Examples of social networking services include Facebook Google Twitter Mexopia MySpace Ning Tagged and Bebo. Using the embodiments disclosed herein a user can share sensor data at user selected locations such as weather or other data obtained at their home place of business etc. with their circle of acquaintances including friends family and colleagues via such a social networking service.

Exemplary embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which like numerical designations will be given to like features with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein 

If the user wishes to view the personal weather data himself he may utilize any appropriate type of weather station or other device for displaying sensor data the local display unit such as the weather station designated at reference numeral . Thus weather sensors may be communicatively coupled to a weather station via any available communication technology or communication media. For example the weather sensors may be adapted to wirelessly communicate weather information to weather station . Weather station is thus one type of a local display unit other local display units adapted to process and display non weather related data will be used with other sensors.

The personal weather or other data gathered in the example of may be shared over the Internet using a data micro server or bridge as illustrated in . Data micro server will log weather or other data collected or received from communicatively coupled weather or other sensors or received from a communicatively coupled local display unit. The micro servers may be integral with the sensors or they may be separate devices.

Data micro server can present historical and or current data at one or more user selected locations using a Web based graphical user interface GUI e.g. a Web page that is accessible via any appropriate type or number of client devices such as laptop computer or smartphone . In some embodiments the Web based GUI may be user configurable. The client devices include but are not limited to a smartphone or a personal computer as shown as well as a tablet computing device a set top box an Internet enabled television or any other device capable of displaying web pages. The client devices may be communicatively coupled to the weather data micro server via for example a wired or wireless local area network LAN .

An exemplary GUI display is provided in showing temperatures and wind direction and speed in two personal locations the user s yard and the user s porch. This data comes from sensors located at the user s porch and yard which gather and supply the data. As can be seen on the display rain conditions humidity as well as weather forecasts can also be determined and displayed for the two locations. Finally a chart may be generated and displayed at the bottom of the page to supply historical weather data for each of the user s personal locations.

Data micro server of may be communicatively coupled to the Internet via any number or type of communication device such as a router a broadband modem an optical network unit ONU or a cellular modem.

To share weather or other sensor data preferably a data server will be used to maintain a database of data collected or received from data micro server . For example a user can configure data micro server to aperiodically or periodically provide weather or other sensor data to data server as it is collected. Where the user collects weather or other sensor data at multiple personal locations data server may associate the data from the multiple locations within the database.

In some embodiments data server may provide and implements on line communities that allow interested persons to share weather or other data. For example the shared data may be based on collected weather data whereby data server can generate weather forecasts and weather forecast information e.g. a weather ticker to users via their associated client devices. Data server can also provide weather related imagery e.g. a radar image a sky view image or a user taken photograph or video or other imagery associated with other sensed data associated with the type of data being sensed.

Data server can present historical or current weather data and or conditions or other historical or current sensor data using a web based GUI e.g. a web page accessible by any number and or type of client devices such as laptop or smartphone . The client devices may be communicatively coupled to data server via the Internet. An example web based GUI that may be presented to display current and or historical weather information or control sharing of weather information is described in connection with . The client devices thus can be used to obtain weather and other data associated with different personal user selected locations. In some embodiments data server may be configurable to send text messages short message service SMS messages RSS feeds or electronic mail email messages based on detected weather conditions or other sensor data and user preferences.

An example process for implementing weather data server is described below in connection with . This process that may be embodied as machine readable instructions executed by one or more processors to implement weather data server is described below in connection with this figure. Data server may be used to share weather or other data via social networking systems as illustrated in .

To share weather or other data via social networking systems the weather or other data server may create instantiate install and or initiate social networking applications that enable substantially real time sharing of weather or other data with social network connected friends family and colleagues. Such social networking applications may be presented on for example a social networking homepage wall or other social networking display. The social networking applications may be used by data server or directly by a user to periodically or aperiodically share weather or other sensor data or to share sensor data on demand via the social networking system.

Where a weather or other data sharing system is used as described herein any of the illustrated devices may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Data micro server and data server may be implemented by computer s or machine s having a processor circuit s programmable processor s fuses application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s field programmable gate array s FPGA s etc. When any embodiment of this disclosure is interpreted to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the weather data servers is expressly defined to include a tangible article of manufacture such as a tangible computer readable storage medium storing machine readable instructions such as the firmware and or software.

Weather conditions or other personal sensor data can be supplied to social networking systems in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In such applications a social networking server will be present and supplied with applications that enable users to share personal weather data or other sensor data with their social network connected friends family and colleagues.

To collect received weather or other data the designated data server of includes a weather or other data collection application programming interface API . Data collection API enables other devices such as the weather sensors and or weather data servers or other sensors data servers to provide weather or other data to data server .

To store collected weather or other data data server includes a data database . Any number or type s of data structures e.g. tables records entries etc. may be used to store data in database . The data database may be stored on any number and or type of volatile or non volatile memory device memory or storage device.

To present current and or historical weather or other data data server includes a data displayer . The data displayer may present weather or other sensor data via one or more web based GUIs such as that shown in or via text messages SMS messages or email messages. As shown in the web based GUI may include a selectable element that a user may use to activate configure control or enable sharing of weather or other data via social networking systems. Selectable element may for example initiate another web based GUI that enables a user to configure what weather or other data to share how often to update shared data to provide user credentials associated with a social networking account into which data is to be shared etc.

To share weather or other sensor data on social networking systems data server includes a sharer . The sharer creates instantiates installs and or initiates a social networking application on behalf of a user that enables substantially real time sharing of the user s weather or other sensor data with social networking system connected friends family and colleagues. The social networking application may be presented or displayed on for example a social networking homepage wall etc.

The social networking application may be implemented by linking a uniform resource locator URL to a portion of a user s homepage wall etc. The social networking system e.g. the social networking server uses the URL to obtain for example hypertext markup language HTML code JavaScript or cascading style sheets CSS that define how and what weather or other sensor data is to be presented. For example the HTML code JavaScript and or CSS may contain one or more links to data server that allows the application to obtain the weather or other data to be presented. The application may be configured to periodically or aperiodically poll data server for updated weather or other information. Alternatively the data being presented may be updated when manually triggered by the user and or automatically when the data server receives updated weather or other sensor data.

To communicatively couple data server with other devices such as social networking server client devices such as laptop or smartphone or other data server any number and or type s of network interface s may be used. Network interfaces may include but are not limited to a wired Ethernet interface a wireless Ethernet interface and the like.

While an example data server is illustrated in any of the illustrated elements may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other serviceable way. Data server may be implemented by computer s or machine s having a processor circuit s programmable processor s fuses ASIC s PLD s FPLD s FPGA s etc. Data server may include elements instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements.

The process of may be embodied in program code or computer readable instructions stored on a tangible machine readable medium accessible by a processor a computer or other machine having a processor. Computer readable instructions comprise for example instructions that cause a processor a computer and or a machine having a processor to perform one or more particular processes. Alternatively some or all of the example process may be implemented using any combination of fuses ASIC s PLD s FPLD s FPGA s discrete logic hardware and firmware.

For ease of discussion the process of will be described with reference to weather data server of . The process of begins with the data collection API determining whether new or additional weather or other personal sensor data is received block . If new or additional data is received the data collection or collection of other non weather personal data API updates the data database block .

If a Web page associated with the new or additional weather data is active on the social networking system block data displayer updates the web page block . If there is no active associated web page block the web page update is not performed.

If sharing of data into a social networking system has been newly activated and or updated via a displayed web page block sharer modifies updates creates instantiates installs and or initiates a social networking application on behalf of a user that enables substantially real time sharing of the user s data or other personal sensor data with connected friends family and colleagues block .

When shared data is to be updated block sharer updates the shared data by for example updating the associated social networking application and or updating the data linked to the social networking application block . The shared data may be updated on a periodic basis an aperiodic basis whenever the user manually triggers an update or when new or updated data is received.

As used herein the terms tangible computer readable storage medium and non transitory computer readable storage medium are defined to expressly exclude propagating signals and to exclude any computer readable media on which signals may be propagated. However a computer readable storage medium may include internal signal traces cables wires and or internal signal paths carrying signals thereon. Example tangible and or non transitory computer readable medium may be volatile and or non volatile and may include a memory a memory device a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a programmable ROM PROM an electronically programmable ROM EPROM an electronically erasable PROM EEPROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device and or any other device in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently during buffering and or during caching and which can be accessed by a processor a computer and or other machine having a processor. The computer readable storage medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems e.g. be a network attached storage device a server based storage device and or a shared network storage device so that computer readable code may be stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Such a media can be read by a computer instructions thereon stored in a memory and executed by a processor.

The embodiments disclosed herein may include a tangible computer readable storage medium for storing program data a processor for executing the program data to implement the methods and apparatus disclosed herein a communications port for handling communications with other devices and user interface devices such as a display a keyboard a mouse a display etc. When software modules are involved these software modules may be stored as program instructions or computer readable codes which are executable by the processor on the tangible computer readable storage medium.

While embodiments described above have been directed to methods and apparatus to share personal weather sensor data via social networking systems other embodiments entail sharing other personal sensor data. Examples of personal sensors that may be used to share other personal data via social networking systems as discussed above include 

A user may wish to share the snow level at his or her home or other personal location. An optical sensor that may be used in such an application may employ e.g. sunlight projected light or laser light which is shined onto a measurement area of the top surface of the snow in a specific predetermined pattern that is recognizable to an optical receiver of the sensor. The sensor or associated conventional electronics calculates the snow level by comparing the size of the actual pattern with the size of the predetermined pattern or changes in the snow level based on changes in the size of the pattern.

Another optical method for monitoring snow level is to detect light from a series of incremented receivers projectors or reflectors mounted at different depths within the snow thickness to be measured.

An ultrasonic method for determining snow height entails transmitting sound waves onto the surface of the snow and measuring the time for the return of the sound waves from which the distance from the sensor and hence the snow level can be determined.

A personal sensor such as a pair of spaced electrodes that recognizes a drop in resistance between the electrodes indicative of the presence of water would be mounted on e.g. a basement wall floor or sump pump well in a boat or in any other personal location where a user wishes to sense and report the presence of water via a social networking system.

A user may want his or her friends family or other social network users to know what the soil moisture or temperature is at a personal location associated with the user. A conventional temperature or soil moisture sensor would be installed at this location to provide this data.

Since UV radiation levels have important health ramifications a conventional UV sensor may be positioned at a personal location and data obtained by that sensor provided to the user s social network page.

Apparatus for sensing moisture temperature and other conditions that may produce allergens fungus mold or bacteria will be positioned at a personal location to provide this data to an apparatus that calculates the potential allergens fungus mold or bacteria levels and supplies this personal data to the user s social network page.

Personal data regarding the number of lightning strikes and distance to lightning strikes can be obtained by monitoring the AM radio spectrum and applying triangulation to obtain this data and supply it to the user s social network page.

This personal data may be provided to the user s social network page by conventional CO or COsensors positioned at a personal location.

A particle sensor positioned at the personal location can provide an indication of the presence of smoke or fog at a personal location or to provide a measure of visibility.

The pH level of pool water soil fish tanks ponds etc. may be determined by placing pH sensors in these personal locations and transmitting the resulting data to a social networking system as described above.

A conventional motion detector can be used to provide an indication of whether anyone is present or at home in the personal location or whether wildlife is present where a conventional motion sensor or trail camera is placed and this motion or image data is transmitted to and displayed on the user s social network page.

A visible or UV light sensor may be placed at a personal location to provide an indication of whether lights are on or off at that location to indicate whether it is sunny at a personal location and e.g. whether sunscreen will be needed or to indicate whether sun control devices such as shades awnings or umbrellas must be used at the personal location.

Information regarding wave height and tides at a personal location may be generated by using e.g. fast acting water pressure measuring devices or floats buoys at the desired personal river lake or ocean locations. The measurements may also be taken ultrasonically by transmitting sound waves onto the surface of the water and measuring the return waves to indicate the distance from the sensor and hence the wave height. Since the wave height sensor is mounted at a fixed point current measurements can be compared to older measurements to determine changes in wave or water height.

A microphone or other monitoring device may be placed at a personal location to measure and report the decibel level of sound or presence of sound at a personal location or to transmit music or conversation at the personal location to the social networking system.

Food readiness time left to cook data can be provided on the social networking system in order to indicate whether food such as e.g. a turkey at the personal location is done or when visitors need to arrive in order to enjoy a fully cooked bird. The data will use conventional temperature or time left to cook devices that use appropriate algorithms to determine the time left to cook based on temperature and rate of temperature change of the cooking food.

Voltage and amperage sensors at a personal location can be used to provide data regarding the level of grid solar or battery power available or being consumed at the personal location.

Social network users often identify the alcohol that they drink how much they drink and their resulting behavior good or bad. A conventional breathalyzer at a personal location associated with the user may be used to substantiate such representations.

A conventional sonar sensor may be located at a personal location to indicate the presence of fish and likely fishing success at that location.

Any references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the disclosure reference has been made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language has been used to describe these embodiments. However no limitation of the scope of this disclosure is intended by this specific language and this disclosure should be construed to encompass all embodiments that would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of this disclosure.

Disclosed embodiments may be described in terms of functional block components and various processing steps. Such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example disclosed embodiments may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly where disclosed elements are implemented using software programming the disclosed software elements may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C Java assembler or the like with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Functional aspects may be implemented in algorithms that execute on one or more processors. Furthermore the disclosed embodiments can employ any number of conventional techniques for electronics configuration signal processing and or control data processing and the like. The words mechanism and element are used broadly and are not limited to mechanical or physical embodiments but can include software routines in conjunction with processors etc.

The particular implementations shown and described herein are illustrative examples and are not intended to otherwise limit the scope of this disclosure in any way. For the sake of clarity conventional electronics control systems software development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be shown in the figures or described in detail. Furthermore the connecting lines or connectors shown in the various figures presented are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical or logical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships physical connections or logical connections may be present in a practical device. Moreover no item or component is essential to the practice of the disclosed embodiments unless the element is specifically described as essential or critical .

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar references in the context of describing examples are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural. Furthermore any recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The steps of all methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Moreover one or more of the blocks and or interactions described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined or any or all of the process may be carried out sequentially and or carried out in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as or for example provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate aspects of the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of this disclosure unless otherwise claimed. Numerous modifications and adaptations will be readily apparent to those skilled in this art without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

While methods and apparatus to share personal data have been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

