---

title: Sending caller identification information using a joint services account
abstract: A first network device receives a message that identifies a relationship between a wireless user device and a client device, the relationship is to allow for caller identification information, for calls associated with the wireless user device, to be sent to the client device. The first network device stores the information identifying the relationship. The first network device receives caller identification information for a call associated with the wireless user device. The first network device determines to send the caller identification information to the client device, based on the information identifying the relationship stored by the first network device; and the first network device sends the caller identification information to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08958781&OS=08958781&RS=08958781
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08958781
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
When a phone call is made from a first user device to a second user device the user of the second user device may be able to view the name of the user of the first user device and or phone number associated with the first user device. The name and or phone number may be defined as the caller identification caller ID information.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may set up and activate a joint account that allows for sending caller ID information relating to incoming and or outgoing calls to from a wireless user device to one or more types of devices such as a set top box. For example a user may set up a joint account that allows for selecting to send caller ID information intended for display on a wireless user device associated with one account to another device e.g. a set top box associated with another account. Once the joint account is created a user may receive caller ID information via the wireless user device and via the other device whenever the wireless user device receives an incoming phone call and or whenever the user of the wireless user device makes an outgoing phone call.

Mary enters her login information e.g. user ID and password for her account with ABC Cable. Once the ABC cable account login information is validated the web page may request Mary to select the type of content that Mary would like to have sent to her cable television account. Mary decides to select caller ID information.

As shown in the web page may display information to Mary about the available user devices that can receive the caller ID information. For example the web page may display all of the set top boxes that are used in Mary s cable television service from ABC Cable. Also the web page may display all of the wireless devices that Mary has with XYZ Wireless. Mary has the option to send content such as caller ID information intended for her smart phone to one or more of the set top boxes. Mary also has the option of choosing to send content intended for Simon s smart phone to one or more of the set top boxes. As shown in Mary decides to select to send caller ID information intended for Mary s smart phone labeled as Mary on the web page to the set top box in the living room.

Mary may also have other options for sending content. Mary may be able to send caller ID information according to the time of day. For example Mary may decide that she would like to have incoming caller ID information intended for her smart phone to be sent to the living room set top box only during certain times of the day. Mary may also have the option to suspend caller ID information. For example Mary may decide to go on vacation and may be able to temporarily suspend sending caller ID information to the living room set top box. Mary may also be able to block caller ID information. For example Mary may decide that incoming calls from her sister s smart phone to Mary s smart phone should not be sent to the living room set top box.

With all the information provided for the joint account the web page may provide Mary with a joint account identifier and password. In the future Mary may use the joint account identifier and password to login into the joint account to perform actions related to sending content to user devices serviced by XYZ Wireless and ABC Cable.

As shown in Jane using her smart phone Jane s smart phone makes a call to Mary s smart phone. Mary s smart phone may be on or off. Assume that Mary s smart phone is on. At the time Jane calls Mary Mary is exercising in front of the living room television and Mary has left her smart phone in the bedroom. When Mary s smart phone receives the call from Jane s smart phone Jane s caller ID information is also communicated to a set top box in the living room that provides content to a living room television. The living room set top box sends the caller ID information to the living room television. The living room television receives Jane s caller ID information and Jane s caller ID information Jane 505 555 1212 may be displayed on the living room television.

As a result a user may be able to send caller ID information intended for one user device e.g. a smart phone to one or more other user devices. This may provide the user with a level of flexibility in their ability to view the caller ID information on different user devices associated with different service providers.

As shown in environment may include a user device user device network network network network network server server content server provisioning server client device display device and home location register switch hereinafter referred to as HLR switch .

User device and user device referred to collectively as user devices and individually as user device may include any computation or communication device that is capable of communicating with a network e.g. network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a personal gaming system a television a set top box a digital video recorder DVR or another type of mobile computation or communication device.

User devices may receive and or display content. The content may include objects data images audio video text files and or links to files accessible via one or more networks. Content may include a media stream which may refer to a stream of content that includes video content e.g. a video stream audio content e.g. an audio stream and or textual content e.g. a textual stream . In some implementations content may include caller ID information SMS messages and or voicemail information.

User device may include a variety of applications such as for example an e mail application a telephone application a camera application a video application a multi media application a music player application a visual voicemail application a contacts application a data organizer application a calendar application an instant messaging application a texting application a web browsing application a location based application e.g. a GPS based application a blogging application and or other types of applications e.g. a word processing application a spreadsheet application etc. . Various features of some of the above applications may be part of the content.

Network network network network and or network referred to collectively as networks and individually as network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. Any two or more of networks may be implemented as a single network even though networks are shown as separate networks in .

Network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a satellite network a GPS network a fiber optic based network and or combination of these or other types of networks. Additionally or alternatively network may support secure communications via a private network e.g. a virtual private network VPN or a private IP VPN PIP VPN and or secure communications via a public network.

Additionally or alternatively network may include a radio access network RAN such as a long term evolution LTE network that may include a variety of components to facilitate mobile communications such as antennas base stations mobile switching centers and interfaces with Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs and or packet data servicing nodes PDSNs .

Additionally or alternatively network may include another type of wireless local area network such as a network based on ultra wide band e.g. bandwidth 500 MHz communications. Examples of standards that are based on ultra wide band UWB may include wireless Universal Serial Bus WUSB and WiNet Internet Protocol over UWB as well as Bluetooth over ultra wide band. Examples of other standards related to UWB may include Multi Band Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing MB OFDM and Direct Sequence UWB DS UWB .

Additionally or alternatively network may include a wireless fidelity WiFi network or another type of wireless network that includes another device e.g. a server and or wireless router to facilitate communication between user devices . In some implementations described herein user device may automatically select a wireless network interface among different types of wireless network interfaces that are available on user device for transferring information. User device may select the wireless network interface based on a variety of factors including for example the wireless network interface with the smallest power consumption.

Server and server may include one or more network devices or other types of computational or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. Server may store identifier information for a user of user device and or identifier information of user device . Server may store relationships between different user devices and client devices and information regarding what content is to be distributed based on those relationships. Server may store identifier information for a user of user device and or identifier information of client device . Server may store relationships between different user devices and client devices and information regarding what content is to be distributed based on those relationships.

Content server may include one or more network devices or other types of computational or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. Content server may store content that may be sent to different user devices and or different client devices . Content server may store information about which server and or server is are to receive content. In one example implementation content server may send caller ID information to server . In another example implementation content server may store and send SMS message information to server . In another example implementation content server may store and send voicemail information to server . In another example implementation content server may store and send content to server and or server . In another example implementation content server may store and send a combination of one or more of caller ID SMS message voicemail or any other type of content to server and or server . The functions of content server may be implemented by server and or serve .

Provisioning server may include one or more network devices or other types of computational or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. Provisioning server may receive information on which user devices and or client devices is are to receive content. Provisioning server may receive user identification and password information for different content providers e.g. wireless and cable television . Provisioning server may send information regarding the relationship between one or more user devices and one or more client devices to server and or server . In some implementations provisioning server may be a part of server . The functions of provisioning server may be implemented by a single server or by multiple servers . In some implementations provisioning server may be part of server . The functions of provisioning server may be implemented by a single server or by multiple servers .

Client device may include any computational or communication device that is capable of communicating with a network e.g. network and may be capable of storing information. For example client device may correspond to a set top box cable card digital video recorder DVR TV tuner card computer or any other device that is capable of outputting audio and or video media including music images television content video content etc. and or other types of information such as text. Functions described above as being performed by client device may be performed by user device . Additionally or alternatively functions described above as being performed by user device may be performed by client device .

Display device may include a device that is capable of displaying and or storing information. Display device may display images television content video content and or other types of information. For example display device may correspond to a television a monitor or any other type of display screen.

HLR switch may include a network device such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers data. HLR switch may transmit receive voice and data between user device and other user devices similar to user device . HLR switch may connect calls by switching digital voice data packets from one network path to another and may provide information that supports mobile service subscribers such as user registration and authentication information.

Additionally or alternatively HLR switch may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In some implementations HLR switch may include one or more databases of subscriber information for a mobile network such as network . HLR switch databases may be maintained by a subscriber s home carrier and may include pertinent user information such as address information account status information user preferences information etc.

In some implementations the messages sent between each of the devices shown in may be associated with an Internet Protocol to be referred to as IP address. The IP address may be IP version 4 IPv4 IP version 6 IPv6 or any other IP version. The IP address may be a public IP address or a private IP address. In some implementations the messages sent between of the devices shown in may be associated with a session initiation protocol SIP message.

As shown in device may include a bus a processor a memory an input component an output component and a communication interface . In other implementations device may contain fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include one or more processors microprocessors or processing logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that interprets and executes instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that stores information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface a wireless interface or the like.

In another implementation communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processor to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver of wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications.

Communication interface may connect to an antenna assembly not shown in for transmission and or reception of the RF signals. The antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals over the air. The antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit the RF signals over the air and receive RF signals over the air and provide the RF signals to communication interface . In one implementation for example communication interface may communicate with network and or devices connected to network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions e.g. computer program s contained in a computer readable medium such as memory a secondary storage device e.g. hard disk CD ROM etc. or other forms of RAM or ROM. A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

In one example implementation provisioning server may be a part of a network that provides content to server . Assume that provisioning server and server are part of a network that provides television programming content to client device such as a set top box or another type of device described with regard to . In this example implementation server may correspond to server described with regard to . Server may correspond to server or multiple servers . Assume that server is part of a network that provides content to user device e.g. a smart phone or other types of user devices described with regard to . In this example implementation the user of user device may decide to set up and activate a joint account to send content e.g. caller ID voicemail SMS messages etc. intended for user device to client device .

In another example implementation provisioning server may be a part of a network that provides content to server . Assume that provisioning server and server are part of a network that provides content to user device e.g. a smart phone or other user devices described with regard to . In this example implementation server may correspond to server describe with regard to . Server may correspond to server or multiple servers . Assume that server is part of a network that provides television programming content to client device such as a set top box or another type of device described with regard to . In this example implementation the user of user device may decide to set up and activate a joint account to send content e.g. video content programming guide content etc. intended for client device to user device .

The user using user device may begin the process of creating a joint account by sending login request to provisioning server as shown in . The user may enter login request via a user interface e.g. a web page . The user interface may use an application programming interface API to send messages to provisioning server . In one example implementation login request may include the user name and password for an account such as a cable television account associated with server . In another example implementation login request may include the user name and password for an account such as a wireless service account associated with server .

Provisioning server may receive login request . Provisioning server may analyze login request and determine that login request is a request to log into a first account e.g. a wireless account a cable television account etc. associated with the user.

In one example implementation provisioning server may send a message to server and request server to determine whether the information e.g. user name password regarding the first account e.g. a wireless account in login request is valid. Provisioning server may receive a message from server that the login information in login request for the first account is valid.

In another example implementation provisioning server may send a message to server and request server to determine whether the information e.g. user name password regarding the first account e.g. a cable television account in login request is valid. Provisioning server may receive a message from server that the login information in login request for the first account is valid.

In another example implementation provisioning server may determine whether the information in login request regarding the first account is valid. In some implementations as described above the first account may be a wireless account or may be a cable television account. Provisioning server may determine that login request is valid.

Provisioning server may generate a message to be sent to user device to confirm that the user has successfully logged in. Provisioning server may generate login success . Provisioning server may send login success to user device .

User device may receive login success . User device may analyze login success and determine that a message be generated and displayed for the user. The user may view the message associated with login success that the user is successfully logged into the first account. To continue creating the joint account the user using user device may generate a message requesting the creation of a joint account. User device may receive the input from the user and user device may generate activation request . User device may determine that activation request be sent to provisioning server . User device may send activation request to provisioning server .

Provisioning server may receive activation request . Provisioning server may analyze activation request and determine that activation request includes a request to create a joint account. Provisioning server may determine that to create a joint account user device may need to send information about a second account which can receive content from the first account.

Provisioning server may generate credential request to request user device to send information about the second account. Provisioning server may send credential request to user device . User device may receive credential request . User device may analyze credential request and determine that a message be generated and displayed to the user. The message may include a request for the user to provide information about a second account which may receive content associated with the first account. The user may view the message associated with credential request on user device . The user may enter information about the second account and use user device to send credentials information to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive credentials information .

In one example implementation credentials information may include the user name or other identification such as a phone number and password for a second account that is associated with user device e.g. a wireless account . In another example implementation credentials information may include a user identification and password for a second account that is associated with client device such as a cable television service. In another example implementation credentials information may include information about a second account that is associated with an identifier such as an MDN of another user device such as a wireless device that is used by another user. For example the user of user device may enter the MDN of a wireless device that is owned by the user s spouse who has a separate wireless account from the user.

Provisioning server may analyze credentials information and determine that a login request message be sent to server which is associated with the second account. Provisioning server may generate login request .

Provisioning server may send login request to server . Login request may include information described in one or more of the example implementations of credentials information described above. In one example implementation login request may be similar to credentials information . In another example implementation login request may be a modified message based on credentials information . In another example implementation login request may be a new message based on credentials information .

Server may receive login request . Server may analyze login request and determine that login request is a request to obtain permission to obtain account information from the second account so that content may be distributed devices associated with to both the first account and the second account. In one example implementation server may determine that the user name and password for the second account is valid. In another example implementation server may send a request to another user device that is a part of a different account e.g. a different wireless account . Server may receive an authorization from the other user e.g. a friend or family member of the other user device to allow for sending content from the other user device to client device . Server may determine that the second account is authenticated. Server may generate confirm account message . Server may send a confirm account message to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive confirm account message .

Provisioning server may analyze confirm account message and determine that the login information in login request for the second account is authenticated. Provisioning server may determine that the first and second accounts are authenticated and a request is to be sent to user device to configure different user devices and different client devices to receive the same content.

Provisioning server may generate configuration request . Configuration request may include information about user devices and client devices that are associated with the first and second accounts. Provisioning server may send configuration request to user device . User device may receive configuration request . User device may analyze configuration result and determine that a message be generated that requests the user to determine which user devices and or client devices are to receive content. User device may generate a message displayed to the user that the second account is successfully validated. The message may include a request for the user to configure which user devices and which client devices are to display the same content.

User device may analyze configuration request and determine that a list of user devices and client devices associated with the first account and the second account be generated and displayed for the user. The user may view the list on user device that includes the available user devices and the available client devices that may receive content. The list may include user devices such as smart phones and or other devices on the user s wireless account. The list may include other user devices that are serviced by a different wireless account e.g. a friend s wireless account .

The list may also include a list of client devices such as set top boxes that are provided content by server . For example the list may include set top boxes located in a living room area bedroom area office area or any other location.

The user may choose different user devices and client devices from the list and create relationships between these different devices. The user may have the option to create relationships using user device to send the same content to one user device and one client device one user device and multiple client devices multiple user devices and one client device or to send the same content to multiple user devices and multiple client devices .

For example the user may choose to have caller ID information intended for the user s smart phone user device to be sent to a set top box client device that provides television programming content to a bedroom television. Alternatively the user may for example choose to send television programming intended for a television via client device such as a set top box to be sent to the user s smart phone user device .

The user may have an option to determine an interval of time when content may be sent. For example the user may select using user device that content intended for a smart phone e.g. user device can only be sent to a set top box client device from 9 00 a.m. to 8 00 p.m. Monday to Friday. Additionally or alternatively the user may select that content intended for a smart phone user device can only be sent to a set top box client device from 7 00 p.m. to 10 00 p.m. Thursday to Sunday.

The user may have an option to suspend the distribution of content to other user devices and or client devices . For example the user may decide to suspend sending content intended for a smart phone e.g. user device to a set top box in the living room for a one week interval of time in June. Before and after the one week interval of time the set top box in the living room may receive the content. The user may also be able to suspend sending content to a set top box during a specific television program e.g. no caller ID alerts during the evening news on a specified television channel .

The user may have an option to block specific content. For example the user may decide that incoming caller ID information to the user s smart phone from a smart phone associated with a particular telephone number or associated with a telephone number not on a list of telephone numbers should not be sent to a set top box client device in the living room.

The user may have the option of choosing the type of content that may be distributed to different user devices and or client devices . For example the user may send caller ID information SMS messages voicemail audio content video content text content and or multimedia content to different user devices and or client devices .

User device may send configuration result to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive configuration result . Provisioning server may analyze configuration result and determine that configuration result includes the type of content to be sent to one or more user devices and or to one or more client devices when the content is to be sent to one or more user devices and or to one more client devices and which of the one or more user devices and or the one or more client devices are to receive the content.

In one example implementation provisioning server may analyze configuration result and determine that a message including information from configuration result be sent to server . Provisioning server may send the message to a particular server that is associated with a selected user device . Server may receive the message and store the information associated with configuration result . Server may use the information to determine which user device is to receive content that is intended for client device . Server may send the information associated with configuration result to other network devices that may be used in the distribution of content specified in configuration result .

In another example implementation provisioning server analyze configuration result and determine that a message including information from configuration result be sent to server . Provisioning server may send the message to a particular server that is associated with a selected client device . Server may receive the message and store the information associated with configuration result . Server may use the information to determine which client device is to receive content that is intended for user device . Server may send the information associated with configuration result to other network devices that may be used in the distribution of content specified in configuration result .

Provisioning server may analyze configuration result and determine that a joint account be created. Provisioning server may determine that the request for a joint account be sent to server . Provisioning server may generate joint account request . Provisioning server may send joint account request to server .

Server may receive joint account request . Server may analyze joint account request and server may create a joint account that allows for the distribution of content to user device and or client device . Server may create a joint account name and or password either of which may be changed by the user at a later time. Server may determine that joint account request includes information that is included in configuration result .

Server may also create a billing code associated with the joint account. The billing code may be used to bill the user for the ability to distribute content to user device and client device . The billing code could be the joint account identifier or the billing code could be a different identifier. The billing code may be used by server to notify other network devices to allow for the distribution of content to user device and or client device .

In one example implementation if server corresponds to server server may send a message to other network devices e.g. HLR switch that are used to send content intended for user device to client device .

In another example implementation if server corresponds to server server may send a message to other network devices associated with providing television programming that are used to send content intended for client device to user device .

Server may determine that joint account information be sent to provisioning server . Server may generate joint account identifier . Server may send joint account identifier to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive joint account identifier from server .

In one example implementation provisioning server may send a message to server that includes the joint account identifier and password information. This may allow the user to log into the joint account through a user interface e.g. a web page associated with server . In another example implementation provisioning server may send a message to server that includes the joint account identifier and password information. This may allow the user to login into the joint account through a user interface e.g. a web page associated with server .

Server may determine that the information from configuration result be sent to content server . Server may generate provisioning request . Server may send provisioning request content server .

Content server may receive provisioning request . In one example implementation content may analyze provisioning request and determine that provisioning request includes information about which selected server is to receive content intended for user device . The selected server is based on which client device is specified by the user in configuration result . For example content server may receive a message from HLR switch associated with a selected user device to send caller ID information to a particular server associated with client device that is specified in configuration result to receive the caller ID information.

In another example implementation content may analyze provisioning request and determine that provisioning request includes information about which server is to receive content intended for client device . The selected server is based on which user device is specified by the user in configuration result . For example content server may receive a message from server associated with a selected client device to send content e.g. multimedia content programming content guide content etc. to a particular server associated with user device that is specified in configuration result to receive the content.

Upon updating content server with which server or server is to receive information based on configuration result content server may generate a confirm request message . Content server may send confirm request message to server . Server may receive confirm request message . Server may analyze confirm request message and server may determine that a confirmation message be sent to provisioning server . Server may generate confirm request message . Server may send confirm request message to provisioning server . In one example implementation confirm request message may be similar to confirm request message . In another example implementation confirm request message may be a modified version of confirm request message . In another example implementation confirm request message may be a new message based on confirm request message .

Provisioning server may receive confirm request message . Provisioning server may analyze confirm request message and provisioning server may determine to send a confirmation message to user device . Provisioning server may generate confirm message . Provisioning server may send confirm message to user device . In one example implementation confirm message may be similar to confirm request message . In another example implementation confirm message may be a modified version of confirm request message . In another example implementation confirm message may be a new message based on confirm request message .

User device may receive confirm message . User device may analyze confirm message and may determine that the configuration request initially provided in configuration result is confirmed. User device may generate a message that may be viewed by the user of user device that the configuration request is successfully initiated.

With a joint account the user may use the joint account identification and password through a web page or other user interface associated with the user s account served by server or associated with the user s account served by server . The user may use the joint account to send a message similar to configuration result to provisioning server that may allow the distribution of other types of content at the same time.

For example if the user set up the joint account to send caller ID information the user using user device may send an additional message similar to configuration result to provisioning server to request to send television program content from a selected client device to a selected user device . The user may also use the joint account to send the same content e.g. caller ID information and or different content e.g. different caller ID information to a different client device . The user may also use the joint account to change which one or more user devices and client devices are to receive content. Alternatively the user may use the joint account to stop sending content to user device or client device . For example the user may send another message similar to configuration result to stop sending caller ID information. This may result in other network devices e.g. content server being notified to remove information associated with configuration result .

In one example implementation provisioning server may be a part of the network that provides content to server . Assume that provisioning server and server are part of a network that provides content e.g. caller ID information to user device e.g. smart phone or other types of user devices described in . In this example implementation server may correspond to server described with regard to . Alternatively server may correspond to multiple servers . Assume that server is part of a network that provides television programming content to client device such as a set top box or another type of client device described with regard to . The user of user device may decide to set up and activate a process to send content e.g. caller ID voicemail SMS messages etc. intended for user device to client device . In this example implementation a user of user device would like to send content e.g. caller ID information that is intended for user device to client device such as a set top box .

In another example implementation provisioning server may be part of the network that provides content to server . Assume that provisioning server and server are part of a network that provides television programming content to client device such as a set top box or another type of client device described with regard to . In this example implementation server may correspond to server described with regard to . Alternatively server may correspond to multiple servers . Assume that server is part of a network that provides information and or content to user device e.g. a smart phone or other user devices described with regard to . The user of user device may decide to set up and activate a process to send content intended for client device to user device . In this example implementation a user of user device may like to send television programming that is intended for client device to user device such as a smart phone .

The user may set up and activate a joint account to distribute content to user device and client device by using user device e.g. a smart phone or laptop to send a login request as shown in to provisioning server . The user may enter login request via a web page or other user interface . The web page may use an application programming interface API to send messages to provisioning server . Login request may correspond to login request described with regard to .

Provisioning server may receive login request . Provisioning server may analyze login request and determine that login request is a request to log into a first account e.g. wireless account a cable television account . Provisioning server may determine that login request is valid. Provisioning server may determine that a message be sent to user device to confirm that the user has successfully logged into the first account. Provisioning server may generate login success . Provisioning server may send login success to user device . Login success may correspond to login success described with regard to . User device may receive login success .

User device may analyze login success and determine that a message be generated as described in and displayed for the user. The user may view a message associated with login success that the user is successfully logged into the first account. To continue setting up the joint account the user using user device may generate a message requesting the creation of a joint account. User device may receive the input from the user and user device may generate activation request . Activation request may initiate the process to create a joint account. User device may determine that activation request be sent to provisioning server . User device may send activation request to provisioning server .

Provisioning server may receive activation request . Activation request may include information similar to information in activation request described with regard to . Provisioning server may analyze activation request and determine that a joint account is to be created. Provisioning server may determine that the login information for a second account is required to create a joint account.

Provisioning server may generate credential request to request user device to send information about the second account. Provisioning server may send credential request to user device . Credential request may correspond to credential request described with regard to . User device may receive credential request .

User device may analyze credential request and determine that a message be generated and displayed to the user described with regard to . The user may view the message associated with credential request on user device requesting information about the second account. The user may enter information about the second account and using user device may send a message to provisional server . User device may generate credentials information . User device may send provide credentials information to provisioning server . The information sent in credentials information may be similar to information sent in credentials information described with regard to .

Provisioning server may receive credentials information . Provisioning server may analyze credentials information and may determine that provisioning server send login request to server . Login request may be similar to login request described with regard to . Server may receive login request from provisioning server and may process login request in a similar process to processing login request described with regard to . Server may send confirm account to provisioning server . Confirm account may correspond to confirm account described with regard to .

With both the first and second accounts authorized provisioning server may determine that a request is to be sent to user device for configuring different user devices and client devices to receive content. Provisioning server may generate configuration request . Provisioning server may send configuration request to user device . Configuration request may correspond to configuration request described with regard to . User device may receive configuration request . User device may analyze configuration result and determine that a message be generated that requests the user to determine which user devices and or client devices are to receive content. User device may generate a message to be displayed to the user that the second account is successfully validated. The message may include a request to the user to configure which user devices and client devices are to receive content. User device may choose which user devices and which client devices are to receive content from a list described with regard to . User device may choose what type of content is to be distributed to user device or client device described with regard to . User device may choose when the content is to be sent to user device or client device described with regard to . User device may generate a configuration result . Configuration result may correspond to configuration result described with regard to . User device may send configuration result to provisioning server .

Provisioning server may receive configuration result . Provisioning server may analyze configuration request in a process similar to how provisioning server analyzed configuration request described with regard to .

Provisioning server may analyze configuration result and determine that a joint account is to be created. In one example implementation provisioning server may analyze configuration result and provisioning server may create a joint account. Provisioning server may send a message including the joint account information to other network devices e.g. HLR switch that may be used to send content intended for user device to client device . Alternatively provisioning server may send a message including the joint account information to other network devices that may be used to send content intended for client device to user device .

In another example implementation provisioning server may analyze configuration result and provisioning server may determine to send a message to server . Server may receive the message and determine to create the joint account and send the name and password for the joint account to provisioning server . Server may also send a message including the joint account information to other network devices e.g. HLR switch that may be used to send content intended for user device to client device .

In another example implementation provisioning server may analyze configuration result and provisioning server may determine to send a message to server . Server may receive the message and determine to create the joint account and send the name and password for the joint account to provisioning server . Server may also send a message including the joint account information to other network devices that may be used to send content intended for client device to user device .

Provisioning server may determine that a configuration request message be sent to server . Provisioning server may generate configuration request . Provisioning server may send a configuration request to server . Server may receive configuration request . Configuration request may include information about the joint account. In one example implementation if server corresponds to server server may analyze configuration request and determine that configuration request includes information based on configuration result about which selected user devices are to receive content. Server may analyze configuration request and store the information as described in configuration result . In another example implementation if server corresponds to server server may analyze configuration request and determine that configuration request includes information based on configuration result about which selected client devices are to receive content. Server may analyze configuration request and store the information as described in configuration result .

Server may determine that once the configuration information is received server may generate a confirmation message. Server may send confirm request to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive confirm request .

Provisioning server may analyze confirm request and determine that a registration message be sent to content server . Provisioning server may generate register message . Provisioning server may send register message to content server . Content server may receive register message . In one example implementation content server may analyze register message and determine that register message includes configuration information described in configuration result about which user device associated with a particular server is to receive content intended for client device . Content server may store the configuration information.

In another example implementation content server may analyze register message and determine that register message includes configuration information about which client device associated with a particular server is to receive content intended for user device . Content server may analyze provisioning request in a process similar to how content server analyzed provisioning request described with regard to . Content server may store the configuration information.

Content server may generate confirm registration message . Content server may send confirm registration message to provisioning server . Provisioning server may receive confirm registration message . Provisioning server may analyze confirm registration message and provisioning server may determine to send a confirmation message to user device . Provisioning server may generate confirm registration message . Provisioning server may send confirm registration message to user device . In one example implementation confirm registration message may be similar to confirm registration message . In another example implementation confirm registration message may be a modified version of confirm registration message . In another example implementation confirm registration message may be a new message based on confirm registration message .

User device may receive confirm registration message . User device may analyze confirm registration message and generate a message for the user to view on user device . The user may view the message that confirms that user device or client device are receiving the content as requested by the user.

With a joint account the user may use the joint account identification and password through a web page or other user interface associated with the user s account served by server or associated with the user s account served by server . The user may send a message similar to configuration result to provisioning server that may allow the user to send other types of content to user device and or client device . For example if the user set up the joint account to send caller ID information the user may send an additional message similar to configuration result to provisioning server to request to send SMS messages to client device . Alternatively the user may use the joint account to stop sending information. For example the user may send another message similar to configuration result to stop sending caller ID information to previously selected client device . This is may result in other network devices e.g. content server server server being notified to remove information associated with configuration result .

Process may include receiving login information for a first account block . For example provisioning server may receive login information for a first account as described with regard to or . Provisioning server may authenticate the login information described with regard to or .

Process may include receiving a request to create and activate a joint account block . For example provisioning server may receive a message from user device to activate a joint account described with regard to or .

Process may include sending a request for login information for a second account block . For example provisioning server may send a request for login information for a second account described with regard to or . Provisioning server may receive from user device login information for the second account described with regard to or . Provisioning server may authenticate the login information for the second account described with regard to or .

Process may include receiving configuration information block . For example provisioning server may receive from user device what content that is to be distributed and which devices e.g. configuration result described with regard to are to receive the content described with regard to or . Provisioning server may send the type of content and information about which devices are to receive the content to other network devices e.g. server server content server described with regard to or .

Process may include creating a joint account block . In one example implementation provisioning server may create a joint account described with regard to . In another example implementation provisioning server may send a request to another network device server or server to create the joint account described with regard to .

Process may include sending joint account information block . For example provisioning server may send joint account information name and password to user device and to other network devices server server described with regard to or .

A user of user device such as a smart phone may decide to call a user of user device . Assume that a joint account has been set up to send incoming caller ID information intended for user device to client device described with regard to or .

As shown in user device may send an inbound call to HLR switch . HLR switch may receive inbound call . Inbound call may include information about the user e.g. a name or another identifier and or user device e.g. phone number MDN or other identifier . Additionally or alternatively inbound call may include call information about user device such as location identifier MDN number or any other type of information. HLR switch may determine using the information in inbound call the location of user device . HLR switch may generate inbound call .

HLR switch may send inbound call to user device . User device may receive inbound call . In one example implementation inbound call may be similar to inbound call . In another example implementation inbound call may be a modified version of inbound call . In another example implementation inbound call may be a new message based on inbound call .

User device may be turned on or turned off. The user of user device may select to accept e.g. to answer the incoming call the call or to decide not to accept the call.

HLR switch may send alert caller ID server message to caller ID server . HLR switch may have received configuration result described with regard to or configuration result described with regard to that indicates that HLR switch is to send inbound call to caller ID server . Caller ID server may receive alert caller ID server message . Alert caller ID server message may include a name of the user of user device and or a MDN or other type of phone number identifying user device . Caller ID server message may send caller ID information to a specified server described with regard to or .

Caller ID server may analyze alert caller ID server message and caller ID server may send a notification message to server . Caller ID server may generate notify server message . Caller ID server may send notify server message to server . Server may receive notify server message . Server may analyze notify server message and determine that the caller ID information is to be sent to a client device selected by the user of user device described with regard to or . Server may generate alert message .

Server may send alert message to client device . Client device may receive alert message . Client device may determine that alert message includes caller ID information that is to be displayed to a user of client device . Client device may have been selected by the user of user device to receive the caller ID information described with regard to or . Client device may be connected to a television or another type of display device such as display device . The caller ID information including the number and or name of the user of user device may be displayed on a television. For example alert message may be displayed on the television screen as Incoming call Jane 505 555 1313. Alternatively alert message may be include information about user device such as Mary 905 555 1212 receiving incoming call from Jane 505 555 1313. 

The user of user device may decide to make to an outbound call to another user device such as user device . Assume that a joint account has been set up to send outgoing caller ID information for a call from user device to client device described with regard to or . As shown in user device may send outbound call to HLR switch . HLR switch may receive outbound call . Outbound call may include information about the user e.g. name or identifier of user device and user device e.g. MDN or other type of identifier . Additionally or alternatively outbound call may include information about the user e.g. name or identifier of user device and user device e.g. MDN or other type of identifier .

HLR switch may determine the location of user device . HLR switch may send outbound call to user device . User device may receive outbound call from HLR switch . In one example implementation outbound call may be similar to outbound call . In another example implementation outbound call may be a modified version of outbound call . User device may be on or off. The user of user device may accept outbound call and talk to the user of user device . Alternatively the user of user device may not accept outbound call and may decide not to talk to the user of user device .

HLR switch may analyze outbound and determine that an alert message is to be sent to caller ID server . HLR switch may generate alert caller ID server message . HLR switch may have received configuration result or configuration result described with regard to or that requests that HLR switch send caller ID information associated with an outbound to caller ID server . HLR switch may send alert message to caller ID server . Caller ID server may receive alert message . Alert message may include caller ID information about user device such as the identifier for the user e.g. a name of user device and user device e.g. a phone number . Caller ID server may as described with regard to or send the caller ID information about user device to a specific client device described with regard to or .

Caller ID server may send notify message to server . Server may receive notify message . Notify message may include which client device should receive the caller ID information regarding user device . Server may as described with regard to or send the caller ID information to a specified client device determined by the user of user device described with regard to or . Server may generate alert message .

Server may send alert message to client device . Client device may receive alert . Client device may analyze alert message and determine that the caller ID information be sent to display device such as a television. Alert message may include the caller ID information e.g. name and or phone number of user device . Client device e.g. a set top box may be connected to display device such as a television. The caller ID information including the number and or name of the user of user device may be displayed on the television or other display device. For example alert message may be displayed on the television screen as outbound call to Tom 909 555 1212. Alternatively alert message may be include information about user device such as Mary 505 555 1212 making outbound call to Tom 909 555 1212. 

Process may include receiving notification of registration of user devices and network devices block . For example caller ID server may receive a notification from provisioning server that caller ID server is to forward caller ID information to server . The server is specified by the user of user device e.g. configuration result described with regard to at the time that a particular client device is selected.

Process may include sending a confirm registration message block . For example caller ID server may send a confirm registration message such as confirm registration described with regard to .

Process may include receiving caller ID information block . For example caller ID server may receive caller ID information from user device via HLR switch . In one example implementation caller ID server may receive the caller ID information for an incoming call to user device described with regard to . In another example implementation caller ID server may receive the caller ID information for an outbound call being made by the user of user device described with regard to .

Process may include sending the caller ID information block . For example caller ID server may send the caller ID information to client device . For example client device may be specified by the user in configuration result described with regard to . Client device may send the caller ID information to a display device such as a television so that the caller ID information may be displayed.

Data structure may include a collection of fields such as a device field content field and access field . Although shows example fields in other implementations data structure may include fewer fields different fields additional fields and or differently arranged fields than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more fields of data structure may include information described as being included in one or more other fields of data structure .

In one example implementation device type field may store an alias name or any other unique identifier for client device when data structure is associated with server . As shown within ellipse in the example of an alias for user device may be user device . In another example implementation device type field may store an alias name or any other unique identifier for user device when data structure is associated with server .

Content field may store an identifier for the type of content to allow sending the content a specified user device or a specified client device . Content field may also store any time restrictions associated with the content. For example the user of user device may have chosen not to have any caller ID information displayed on a television associated with client device during the weekend. Alternatively the user may have chosen to suspend caller ID information during a one week interval of time.

Access field may store particular information about which user devices or client devices may receive the content identified in content field . In one example implementation access field may identify client devices when data structure is associated with server . In another example implementation access field may identify user devices when data structure is associated with server .

In one example implementation server may receive configuration result described with regard to . For example configuration result may include sending content caller ID information intended for user device e.g. user device such as a smart phone to user device e.g. client device such as a set top box . Server may analyze data structure and determine that the caller ID information intended for user device is to be sent to user device set top box .

In another example implementation server may receive configuration result described with regard to . For example configuration result may include sending content television program intended for user device e.g. client device such as a set top box to user device e.g. user device such as a smart phone . Server may analyze data structure and determine that the content intended for user device is to be sent to user device set top box .

Data structure may include a collection of fields such as a device field and access field . Although shows example fields in other implementations data structure may include fewer fields different fields additional fields and or differently arranged fields than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more fields of data structure may include information described as being included in one or more other fields of data structure .

Device type field may store an alias name or any other unique identifier for user device . As shown within ellipse in the example of an alias for user device may be user device . 

Access field may store particular information about a network device that may receive caller ID information intended for user device as defined in device field . Access field may store an alias name or any other unique identifier for server . The selected server may receive caller ID information intended for a user device defined in device field .

In an example implementation caller ID server may receive a message from HLR switch . Caller ID server may analyze the message and determine using data structure that the caller ID information intended for user device should be sent to network device . Network device may determine using data structure as described in which client device is to receive the caller ID information.

In a user Julie of user device decides to set up a configuration of different user devices to receive caller ID information. Assume that Julie has already set up and activated a joint account described with regard to or . Julie decides using web page that she would like to send caller ID information intended on her smart phone user device to set top boxes in the living room client device and in the bedroom client device . Julie further decides to block specific caller ID alerts as shown on web page . Julie decides that any incoming or outgoing calls that she makes from user device will not be displayed on the television associated with the set top box client device in the living room between the hours of 6 00 p.m. and 6 00 a.m. Further Julie decides that any incoming calls may be displayed at all times on the television associated with the set top box client device in the bedroom.

As shown in Julie may be working out in front of the television located in the bedroom. It is Monday morning at 10 00 a.m. Julie s friend Mary decides to make a call using user device to user device . The caller ID information associated with user device may be sent to user device and caller ID server . Caller ID server may send caller ID information to server via network and server may send the caller ID information to set top boxes determined by Julie s selection of devices described with regard to .

Since Julie decided that caller ID information is to be displayed on the television in the bedroom caller ID server may send the caller ID information for user device to the set top box client device located in the bedroom. As shown in Julie may view a message on her bedroom television display device that displays caller ID information from user device Call from Mary 505 555 1212 .

As shown in Julie is again working out in front of her television located in the bedroom. Also Julie s children are watching at show on the television located in the living room. It is Friday evening at 7 00 p.m.

Julie s husband Robert decides to make a call to order pizza from the local pizza restaurant using user device . As Robert calls the pizza restaurant the caller ID information of the pizza restaurant Pizza Place appears on the television in the bedroom. Julie has configured the set top box client device in the bedroom to show incoming and outbound phone calls from user device as described in . User device may send a message to caller ID server . Caller ID server may send the caller ID information associated with the outbound call via network to server . Server may determine that the outbound phone call is to be sent to the set top box client device in the bedroom. Thus Julie will see a message call from Julie to Pizza Place 919 555 1212 on her television display device in the bedroom. Julie also configured that the set top box client device not to display inbound or outbound phone calls between the hours of 6 00 p.m and 6 00 a.m. Thus caller ID server may not send any outbound caller ID information to the set top box client device that provides programming to the television display device in the living room. Thus the children who are watching cartoons will not see the message regarding the outbound call to the pizza restaurant displayed on the living room television.

Systems and or methods described herein may allow for a user of a user device to set up and activate a service that allows for distributing content intended for one user device to one or more different types of user devices.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

While series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

