---

title: Restricted-locality synonyms
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for identifying and scoring restricted-locality synonyms. In one aspect, a method includes receiving a search query including a query term and a synonym for the query term. The synonym is evaluated using one or more predetermined criteria and based on the evaluation is designated as a restricted-locality synonym. A first scoring model is selected that specifies how to score occurrences of restricted-locality synonyms in documents. A document is received that is identified as being responsive to the search query. A document score for the document is determined using the first scoring model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08631019&OS=08631019&RS=08631019
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08631019
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120213
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of the filing date of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 533 142 filed on Sep. 9 2011 and entitled RESTRICTED LOCALITY SYNONYMS the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This specification generally relates to search engines and one particular implementation relates to scoring documents that are identified as being responsive to search queries.

Search systems use query revision engines to revise search queries for example to include synonyms of query terms. To identify a synonym of a query term query revisers evaluate candidate synonyms according to various criteria such as criteria that estimate whether in a particular context a candidate synonym is a good synonym of the query term. Goodness of a particular candidate synonym may be expressed for example by the amount of confidence trust consistency reliability or other characteristic that defines an association between a query term and the candidate synonym.

Once search results are obtained using revised search queries that include synonyms however a scoring engine may still score search results based on an assumption that occurrences of all synonyms of a query term are equivalent to or equally as good as occurrences of the query term. Such action may ignore the nuanced differences in confidence trust consistency or reliability that a particular synonym of the query term has in relation to a different synonym.

Thus according to one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification synonyms that satisfy certain criteria e.g. reliability criteria may be tagged or otherwise designated as restricted locality synonyms indicating that the restricted locality synonyms occurrence in relation to other query terms or other synonyms in identified documents may affect the search result score. The search result score can be affected by restricting counts of particular synonyms to occurrences that are near occurrences of other search query terms in a document. In other words for scoring a restricted locality synonym is restricted to occurrences with other words in the search query other occurrences are not counted or are discounted. When search results are scored search results that were identified based on a revised search query that included a restricted locality synonym may be scored using a framework that i is different than an framework that is used to score query terms or highly reliable synonyms and ii is informed by the fact that with respect to a particular query term and a particular context one synonym may be more or less reliable than another synonym.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may be embodied in methods that include the actions of classifying a synonym of a query term as a restricted locality synonym. A scoring engine that scores occurrences of synonyms in documents can use a different scoring model for synonyms identified as restricted locality synonyms when computing document scores for ranking search results.

In general another aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may be embodied in methods that include the actions of receiving a search query including a query term and a synonym for the query term evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria and based on evaluating the synonym and the query term using the one or more predetermined criteria designating the synonym as a restricted locality synonym wherein a synonym designated as a restricted locality synonym is evaluated by a scoring engine according to a first scoring model that specifies how to score occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in documents and wherein the first scoring model is different than a second scoring model that specifies how to score occurrences of query terms or synonyms that are not designated as a restricted locality synonym in documents. Other embodiments of these aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices.

These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features. The first scoring model specifies that a contribution to a document score of occurrences of the restricted locality synonym in the document depends on whether one or more other terms co occur with the restricted locality synonym in the document. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining whether the synonym and the query term are morphological variants. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining whether the synonym and the query term are abbreviation or acronym variants. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes identifying a synonym rule used to generate the synonym and a confidence value associated with the synonym rule and determining whether a confidence value associated with the synonym rule satisfies a threshold. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining whether the synonym was identified using a specific context synonym rule. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining whether the query term or the synonym is a proper name. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining whether the query term or the synonym is a particular part of speech. Evaluating the synonym and the query term using one or more predetermined criteria includes determining that each of two or more predetermined criteria has been satisfied.

In general another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may be embodied in methods that include the actions of receiving a document identified as being responsive to a search query receiving an indication that a synonym of a query term in the search query is designated as a restricted locality synonym in response to receiving the indication that the synonym is designated as a restricted locality synonym selecting a first scoring model that specifies how to score occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in documents wherein the first scoring model is different than a second scoring model that specifies how to score occurrences of query terms or synonyms that are not designated as a restricted locality synonym in documents and determining a document score for the document using the first scoring model. Other embodiments of these aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices.

These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features. The first scoring model specifies that a contribution to a document score of occurrences of the restricted locality synonym in the document depends on whether one or more other terms co occur with the restricted locality synonym in the document. The first scoring model demotes a score associated with occurrences of the restricted locality synonym in the document. The first scoring model defines a demotion of the document score. The first scoring model uses one or more criteria for scoring occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in the document. Determining a score for the document using the first scoring model includes determining that the document does not include the query term and based on determining that the document does not include the query term demoting a score associated with each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document. Determining a score for the document using the first scoring model includes determining that the document does not include other synonyms of the query term and based determining that the document does not include the query term demoting a score associated with each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document. Determining a score for the document using the first scoring model includes determining that the restricted locality synonym does not occur adjacent to a query term and based on determining that the restricted locality synonym does not occur adjacent to a query term demoting a score associated with each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document. Determining a score for the document using the first scoring model includes determining that at least a threshold number of query terms co occur with the restricted locality synonym in a sequence of consecutive terms in the document determining that a length of the sequence satisfies a threshold and based on determining that the length of the sequence satisfies a threshold demoting a score associated with each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Using a different scoring model for restricted locality synonyms can improve the quality and relevance of provided search results. Identifying restricted locality synonyms can also mitigate the identification of highly irrelevant search results.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the search results identified by the search system can include one or more search results that are identified as being responsive to queries that are different than the original query . The search system can generate or obtain other queries in numerous ways e.g. by revising the original query .

In some implementations the search system can generate a revised query by adding to the original query additional terms that are synonyms of one or more terms that occur in the original query . In other implementations the search system can generate a revised query by substituting terms that are synonyms of terms that occur in the original query in place of the terms in the original query . As used by this specification synonyms i.e. terms that are used to generate revised queries are also referred to as substitute terms. The synonym engine can identify the additional terms that are candidate synonyms for the one or more terms that occur in the original query. The query reviser engine can generate the revised query. The search engine can use the original query and the revised queries to identify and rank search results. The search engine can provide the identified search results to the client device on the search results page .

The synonym engine can identify the synonyms the query reviser engine can use to generate revised queries by evaluating terms included in previously received queries stored in a query logs database . The queries stored in the query logs database can include previous queries where a user considered the results of the queries desirable. For example the user can click the provided search results from a query in effect validating the search results. The queries stored in the query logs database can include previous queries determined by the search system as providing desirable results. For example the search system can perform a quality thresholding for returned search results from a query. The quality thresholding can include determining search results that have historically been returned for a particular query. Search results above the quality threshold can validate a query which the search system can then include in the query logs database .

For example given a first term cat the synonym engine can evaluate terms feline or banana that are candidate synonyms for the original term. In addition the synonym engine can determine that certain terms are synonyms of the first term as in the case of feline and that other terms are not synonyms of the first term as in the case of banana . The synonym engine can base this determination on rules stored in a synonym rules database . For example a synonym rule can be feline is a synonym for cat and banana is not a synonym for cat.

The search system can define synonym rules to apply generally or to apply only when particular conditions or query contexts are satisfied. For example the query context of a synonym rule can specify one or more other terms that should be present in the query for the synonym rule to apply. Furthermore query contexts can specify relative locations for the other terms e.g. to the right or left of a query term under evaluation . In another example query contexts can specify a general location e.g. anywhere in the query . For example a particular synonym rule can specify that the term pet is a synonym for the query term dog but only when the query term dog is followed by the term food in the query. Multiple distinct synonym rules can generate the same synonym for a given query term. For example for the query term dog in the query dog food the term pet can be specified as a synonym for dog by both a synonym rule for dog in the general context and a synonym rule for dog when followed by food. 

The synonym rules can depend on query contexts that define other terms in the original query . In other words a synonym rule need not apply in all situations. For example when the term cats is used as a single term query the term felines can be considered a synonym for cats . The synonym engine can return the term felines to the query reviser engine to generate a revised search query. In another example when the query includes the term cats followed by the term musical a synonym rule can specify that the term felines is not a synonym for cats. In some implementations the synonym rules can be stored in the synonym rules database for use by the synonym engine the query reviser engine or the search engine .

In the illustrative example of the search system can be implemented as computer programs installed on one or more computers in one or more locations that are coupled to each other through a network e.g. network . The search system includes a search system front end e.g. a gateway server that coordinates requests between other parts of the search system and the client device . The search system also includes one or more engines the search engine a query reviser engine and the synonym engine .

As used in this specification an engine or software engine refers to a software implemented input output system that provides an output that is different from the input. An engine can be an encoded block of functionality such as a library a platform a Software Development Kit SDK or an object. The network can include for example a wireless cellular network a wireless local area network WLAN or Wi Fi network a Third Generation 3G or Fourth Generation 4G mobile telecommunications network a wired Ethernet network a private network such as an intranet a public network such as the Internet or any appropriate combination thereof.

The search system front end the search engine the query reviser engine and the synonym engine can be implemented on any appropriate type of computing device e.g. servers mobile phones tablet computers notebook computers music players e book readers laptop or desktop computers PDAs smart phones or other stationary or portable devices that includes one or more processors and computer readable media. Among other components the client device includes one or more processors computer readable media that store software applications e.g. a browser or layout engine an input module e.g. a keyboard or mouse a communication interface and a display device . The computing device or devices that implement the search system front end the query reviser engine and the search engine may include similar or different components.

In general the search system front end receives the original query from the client device . The search system front end routes the original query to the appropriate engines included in the search system so that the search system can generate the search results page . In some implementations routing occurs by referencing static routing tables. In other implementations routing occurs based on the current network load of an engine in order to accomplish load balancing. In addition the search system front end can provide the resulting search results page to the client device . In doing so the search system front end acts as a gateway or interface between the client device and the search engine .

Two or more of a search system front end a query reviser engine and a search engine e.g. the search system front end the query reviser engine and the search engine respectively may be implemented on the same computing device or on different computing devices. Because the search system generates the search results page based on the collective activity of the search system front end the query reviser engine and the search engine the user of the client device may refer to these engines collectively as a search engine. This specification however refers to the search engine and not the collection of engines as the search engine since the search engine identifies the search results in response to the user submitted query .

In some implementations the search system can include many computing devices for implementing the functionality of the search system . The search system can process the received queries and generate the search results by executing software on the computing devices in order to perform the functions of the search system .

Referring to during state A a user of the client device enters original query terms for the original query and the client device communicates the original query to the search system over the network . For example the user can submit the original query by initiating a search dialogue on the client device speaking or typing the original query terms of the original query and then pressing a search initiation button or control on the client device . The client device formulates the original query e.g. by specifying search parameters . The client device transmits the original query over the network to the search system .

Although this specification refers to the query as an original or an initial query such reference is merely intended to distinguish this query from other queries such as the revised queries that are described below. The designation of the original query as original is not intended to require the original query to be the first query that is entered by the user or to be a query that is manually entered. For example the original query can be the second or subsequent query entered by the user. In another example the original query can be automatically derived e.g. by the query reviser engine . In another example the original query can be modified based on prior queries entered by the user location information and the like.

During state B the search system front end receives the original query and communicates the original query to the query reviser engine . The query reviser engine can generate one or more revised queries based on the substance of the original query . In some implementations the query reviser engine generates a revised query by adding terms to the original query using synonyms for terms in the original query . In other implementations the query reviser engine generates a revised query by substituting the synonyms for the corresponding terms of the original query . The query reviser engine can obtain synonyms for use in revising the original query from the synonym engine .

During state C the query reviser engine communicates original query terms of the original query to the synonym engine . The synonym engine can use synonym rules included in the synonym rules database to determine one or more synonyms for one or more of the original query terms of the original query .

The synonym engine communicates synonyms to the query reviser engine during state D . The query reviser engine generates one or more revised queries by adding synonyms to the original query . In addition the query reviser engine can generate one or more revised queries by substituting certain terms of the original query .

The query reviser engine communicates the one or more revised queries to the search system front end during state E . The search system front end communicates the original query along with the one or more revised queries to the search engine as all queries during state F . The search engine generates search results that it identifies as being responsive to the original query and or the one or more revised queries . The search engine can identify search results for each query using an index database that stores indexed resources e.g. web pages images or news articles on the Internet . The search engine can compute scores for each of the identified search results using a scoring engine that computes a score for an indexed resource using terms of the original query and synonyms of terms in the original query . The search engine can combine and rank the identified search results by score and communicate the search results to the search system front end during state G .

The search system front end generates a search results page that identifies the search results . For example each of the search results can include but are not limited to titles text snippets images links reviews or other information. The original query terms or the synonyms that appear in the search results can be formatted in a particular way e.g. in bold print and or italicized print . For example the search system front end transmits a document that includes markup language e.g. HyperText Markup Language or eXtensible Markup Language for the search results page to the client device over the network at state H . The client device reads the document e.g. using a web browser in order to display the search results page on display device . The client device can display the original query terms of the original query in a query box or search box located for example on the top of the search results page . In addition the client device can display the search results in a search results box for example located on the left hand side of the search results page .

In general a query including one or more original query terms is received from a client device and the query reviser engine can identify one or more synonyms of the original query terms .

As used by this specification the synonym rule notation A B indicates that according to a particular synonym rule the term B is considered to be a synonym for the term A. Using this rule the query reviser engine may generate revised queries by adding term B to an original query by substituting term B for term A in the original query or by performing other query revision techniques.

The synonyms can be differentiated into different classes or types of synonyms by a classifier . In some examples the classifier can classify synonyms as either restricted locality synonyms or non restricted locality synonyms based on one or more restricted locality synonym criteria . A contribution to a document score of occurrences of a restricted locality synonym in the document can depend on whether one or more other terms co occur with the restricted locality synonym in the document.

The search engine can identify search results using the synonyms of the original query terms . To identify search results the search engine may in some example implementations retrieve indexed documents that include the original query terms synonyms of the original query terms or both.

The scoring engine then uses one or more scoring models to assign a score to each document identified by search results . The scoring engine can use one scoring model for query terms and or for certain types of synonyms and another second scoring model for all synonyms of the original query terms or for other certain types of the synonyms .

A scoring model can for example count a number of occurrences of the original query terms and synonyms of the original query terms in a particular document under evaluation. A scoring model specifies how to score occurrences of the original query terms and the synonyms of the original query terms in documents. An example scoring model sums all occurrences of the original query terms and synonyms in a document and assigns a score to the document or to a search result that references the document based on the sum.

The scoring engine can also use different scoring models for different types of synonyms. Synonyms that are classified as restricted locality synonyms can be tagged as restricted locality synonyms for use by the scoring engine . The scoring engine can then use a first scoring model for scoring occurrences of query terms and non restricted locality synonyms in documents and can use a second scoring model for scoring occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in documents.

In some implementations the second scoring model for restricted locality synonyms specifies additional criteria for counting or scoring occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in documents. For example if a particular synonym is classified as a restricted locality synonym the scoring model can specify that the occurrence of that particular synonym in a document will be counted only if that particular synonym is adjacent to a query term in the document. Once the documents are scored the search results that reference the documents are ranked and the ranked search results are sent to the client device .

The system evaluates the query term and the synonym . The system can use one or more criteria e.g. criteria as signals in order to classify the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In general classifying a synonym as a restricted locality synonym indicates that the synonym s occurrence in a document should be evaluated for consistency with the original query term s occurrence in the query. Accordingly the occurrence of a restricted locality synonym in a document in relation to other query terms or other synonyms of query terms in the document will be taken into account during scoring.

In contrast non restricted locality synonyms may be reliable such that their occurrence in a document in relation to query terms or other synonyms is less significant or disregarded during scoring.

Some of the criteria used in classifying a synonym as a restricted locality synonym depend on the particular type of synonym being evaluated. A synonym engine that generates synonym rules can tag or otherwise designate a synonym rule as being of a particular type e.g. an abbreviation or a morphological variant . When a query reviser engine generates a revised query by identifying synonyms for query terms the identified synonyms can be tagged or designated according to the corresponding designation of the synonym rule used to generate the synonym.

The system can determine whether the query term and the synonym are morphological variants . The synonym can for example be tagged as a morphological variant synonym by a query reviser engine. Morphological variants include synonyms that are variants of the query term in tense e.g. run ran number plural or singular e.g. cup cups past participle constructions e.g. theme themed present participle constructions e.g. run running adverbial constructions e.g. poor poorly or according to other grammatical rules.

Morphological variants can also include terms that share a same stem terms in which one term is a spelling correction of the other or terms that that have an edit distance that satisfies a threshold. The occurrence in documents of synonyms that are morphological variants of query terms tend to be consistent with occurrences of the original query terms in queries regardless of the occurrence of other query terms or other synonyms. Therefore a synonym being a morphological variant is a negative signal for classifying the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In some implementations if a synonym is a morphological variant of a query term the synonym is not classified as a restricted locality synonym.

The system can also determine whether the query term is an acronym for the synonym and vice versa . The synonym can for example be tagged as an acronym synonym by a query reviser engine. For example a synonym FAQ for the query term frequently asked questions can be tagged as an acronym synonym. Because acronyms of terms can have essentially the same meaning regardless of the occurrence of other query terms or other synonyms occurrences of acronyms in documents tend to be consistent with occurrences of corresponding query terms in queries. Therefore a synonym or query term being an acronym of the other is a negative signal for classifying the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In some implementations if the query term is an acronym of the synonym or vice versa the synonym is not classified as a restricted locality synonym.

The system can also determine whether the query term is an abbreviation for the synonym and vice versa . The synonym can for example be tagged as an abbreviation synonym by a query reviser engine. For example if the query term is dept and the synonym is department the system can determine that the query term is an abbreviation for the synonym. Because abbreviations of terms can have essentially the same meaning regardless of the occurrence of other query terms or other synonyms occurrences of abbreviations in documents tend to be consistent with occurrences of corresponding query terms in queries. Therefore a synonym or query term being an abbreviation of the other is a negative signal for classifying the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In some implementations if the query term is an abbreviation for the synonym or vice versa the synonym is not classified as a restricted locality synonym.

The system can determine whether the synonym rule that generated the synonym has a high confidence value . Each synonym rule associated with the query term and synonym can have an associated confidence value. If the confidence value for a particular synonym rule satisfies a threshold the system can determine that the synonym rule has a high confidence. Synonym rules without a high confidence value can indicate that in some situations or contexts a synonym may have a different meaning than a particular query term. Therefore a synonym not having a high confidence value is a positive signal for classifying the synonym as a restricted locality synonym so that the synonym s occurrence in documents in relation to other query terms or other synonyms is taken into account during scoring.

In contrast a synonym with a high confidence value can indicate that the synonym is a reliable substitution for the query term regardless of other query terms or other synonyms. In some implementations if the synonym was generated with a synonym rule having a high confidence value the synonym is not classified as a restricted locality synonym.

The system can determine whether the synonym was generated using a general context synonym rule or a specific context synonym rule . The synonym rule car auto dealer is a specific context synonym rule which specifies that auto is a synonym for car only when car is followed by dealer in the query. A specific context synonym rule indicates that the synonym is a synonym for the query term only if particular other terms appear in the query along with the query term. Therefore the occurrence of a synonym in a specific context in a document that is consistent with the context of the original query term in can be considered more significant during scoring.

Accordingly a synonym being generated by a specific context synonym rule is a positive signal for classifying the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In some implementations if the synonym was generated using a general context synonym rule and not with a specific context synonym rule the synonym is not classified as a restricted locality synonym.

The system can also use signals other than those shown in in classifying a synonym as a restricted locality synonym. For example the system can determine that the synonym is a proper name and that the query term is not a proper name e.g. tim time and use proper names as a positive signal for the synonym being a restricted locality synonym. The system can also classify the query term and synonym by parts of speech and designate some parts of speech e.g. verbs as a positive signal for the synonym being a restricted locality synonym. Other signals can optionally be used.

The system aggregates the signals to determine whether the synonym should be classified as a restricted locality synonym . For example the system can apply a weight to each signal and compare a weighted sum of the signals to a threshold. If the sum satisfies the threshold the system can classify the synonym as a restricted locality synonym. In some implementations if any of the criteria are satisfied e.g. the query term is an abbreviation the synonym is classified as a non restricted locality synonym.

The system tags the synonym as a restricted locality synonym . Tagging the synonym as a restricted locality indicates to a scoring engine that the occurrences of the synonym in documents should be scored according to a scoring model applicable to restricted locality synonyms. The system can use any appropriate annotation to designate the synonym as a restricted locality synonym for use by a scoring engine.

The scoring engine receives a synonym of a query term and one or more documents . The scoring engine determines whether the synonym is tagged as a restricted locality synonym .

If the synonym is not tagged as a restricted locality synonym the scoring engine applies a first scoring model . In some implementations the first scoring model is the same scoring model used for original query terms. The scoring model can for example count the occurrences of the synonym in the document.

If the synonym is tagged as a restricted locality synonym the scoring engine applies a second scoring model . The second scoring model can apply additional criteria on counting occurrences of the synonym in the document as described in more detail below. The second scoring model can take into account the occurrences of restricted locality synonyms in relation to other query terms or other synonyms in order to increase the score for documents in which occurrences of restricted locality synonyms are consistent with occurrences of the original query term in the query.

In some implementations the scoring engine uses the second scoring model only after determining that the document contains no occurrences of query terms or non restricted locality synonyms. In other words the scoring engine can first count occurrences in the document of query terms and non restricted locality synonyms. If no occurrences have been found the scoring engine can count occurrences of restricted locality synonyms and score the document according to the second scoring model.

The scoring engine outputs the score for the document . The score can be based on a score particular to the received synonym. The scoring engine can combine the synonym score with scores for original query terms and other restricted locality and non restricted locality synonyms to compute an overall score for the document.

In general one or more additional criteria e.g. criteria and are evaluated for scoring occurrences of the restricted locality synonym in the document. For example if the document does not include the original query term the document may have been identified by the search engine only by virtue of the occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document. If the synonym is not a reliable synonym or its occurrence in the document is not consistent with the occurrence of the query term in the original query scoring with a conventional scoring model may over value occurrences of such unreliable or inconsistent synonyms.

Therefore the scoring engine can impose the additional criteria on scoring occurrences of restricted locality synonyms. For each unsatisfied criterion the scoring engine can adjust the score for the document accordingly. For example the scoring engine can reduce a contribution to an overall document score of each occurrence of a restricted locality synonym in a document after each unsatisfied criterion. The scoring engine can also demote a score for each unsatisfied criterion for example a score associated with occurrences of a particular restricted locality synonym or a computed document score. In some implementations demotion by the scoring engine means that the scoring engine discounts or disregards the occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document when computing a score for the document.

The process will be described as a cascading series of criteria and associated demotions in document score although the criteria can be applied in any order. The associated demotions in document score can be demotions of a precomputed temporary or in progress document score. As described above the demotions can alternatively be reductions to a contribution to the document score of occurrences of restricted locality synonyms. Criteria other than those shown in can also optionally be used.

The scoring engine determines whether the query term also occurs in the document . If the original query term does not occur in the document the score can be adjusted e.g. demoted due to the possibility that the document was retrieved by the search engine only due to the occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document. Thus the identification of the synonym as a restricted locality synonym will affect the document score accordingly and the scoring engine will demote the document score . In contrast if the document also includes the query term the process ends.

The scoring engine determines whether other synonyms of the query term also occur in the document . For example if the document does not include the query term but includes another synonym of the query term the criterion is satisfied. The occurrence of other synonyms of the query term can be an indicator that the occurrence of restricted locality synonym in the document is consistent with the occurrence of the original query term in the query. Thus if the document includes another synonym of the query term the process ends. If the document does not include any other synonym of the query term the scoring engine demotes the document score .

The scoring engine determines whether the restricted locality synonym is adjacent in the document to a query term . For each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document the scoring engine can determine whether the term occurring before or after the restricted locality synonym was in the query. For example if the restricted locality synonym is adjacent to another query term in the document the criterion is satisfied. If the restricted locality synonym occurs adjacent to another query term in the document the process ends. If the restricted locality synonym does not occur adjacent to another query term in the document the scoring engine demotes the document score .

The scoring engine determines whether an isolation criterion for the restricted locality synonym is satisfied . The isolation criterion is used by the scoring engine to evaluate where the restricted locality synonym occurs in relation to other query terms. In some implementations the scoring engine finds the shortest sequence of document terms that includes both the restricted locality synonym and a threshold number of query terms. The scoring engine can use a maximum size e.g. 10 for the sequence length and a minimum number e.g. 3 for occurrences of the query terms.

For example for each occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in the document the scoring engine can determine whether the restricted locality synonym occurs in a sequence of document terms that is less than or equal to the maximum sequence of document terms that also includes greater than or equal to the minimum number of query terms. For example the scoring engine can specify that a restricted locality synonym must occur within 5 document terms of at least 2 other query terms for the criterion to be satisfied.

If the restricted locality synonym does occur in the specified sequence of document terms with the specified number of query terms the process ends. If however the restricted locality synonym does not occur in the specified sequence document terms with the specified number of query terms the scoring engine demotes the document score . The scoring engine can use multiple of such isolation criteria in serial or in parallel when computing the document score.

The criteria of can be applied in any appropriate order in serial or any number of the criteria can be applied in parallel. The respective adjustments in score can also be implemented as promotions or score boosts and can be aggregated by the scoring engine in computing the document score.

A search engine identifies three example documents and using the query terms banana and recipe as well as the synonym plantain . A scoring engine scores the documents and according to a scoring model that does not account for restricted locality synonyms. Search results ranked by score are provided back to the client device as for example a search results page

Document corresponds to the highest ranked search result because the document included an occurrence of the exact query banana recipe. A search result corresponding to document is ranked higher than search result corresponding to document because document contained more occurrences of query terms and synonyms than document . In other words document contained three occurrences of the synonym plantain while document contained only a single instance of plantain and a single instance of the query term recipe. 

Using the scoring model for restricted locality synonyms the scoring engine can demote the score of documents and if occurrences of the restricted locality synonym in the document do not meet certain restricted locality synonym criteria. For example occurrences of restricted locality synonym plantain in document do not appear with the original query term banana do not appear with any other synonyms of the query term banana do not appear adjacent to any original query terms and do not appear within a maximum sequence with a minimum number of query terms. The scoring engine can demote the computed score for document accordingly.

Document on the other hand includes an occurrence of the restricted locality synonym plantain that does occur adjacent to another query term recipe an indication that the restricted locality synonym s occurrence in document is more consistent with the occurrence of the original query term in the query than the occurrence of the restricted locality synonym in document . Therefore the scoring engine can demote the score of document less than it demotes the score for document . As a result the list of ranked search results will be altered and a search result corresponding to document is ranked higher than a search result corresponding to document on search results page

Embodiments of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of them installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

