---

title: Allowing interactive post of an online game within a social network
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs for sharing a game play over a social network include executing a play session of a game. During execution of the play session, an option is provided to share a portion of the game on a social network. In response to receiving a request to share the portion of the game, an instance of the game is generated at a time when the request is received and is posted to a stream of the social network. The instance of the game inherits a current state of the play session. A reward is generated to a user account that plays the instance in the stream and to the user that initiates the sharing of the portion of the game upon the user playing the instance of the game claims the reward.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09579561&OS=09579561&RS=09579561
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09579561
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
The present embodiments relate to online interactive game and more particularly to methods systems and computer programs for allowing interactive post of an online game within a social network.

The popularity of games has extended to games played online with a plurality of users. Online games such as poker slots blackjack etc. are played on a computer by a large number of users. However most of the online games are played individually and are generally not shared with other users. In the online games that are played individually the games are very similar to the real life games such as slot games that have been around for a long time and merely seem to copy the user interface provided by the real life games.

Current popularity of interactive social network has made possible some level of collaboration amongst users while playing online games. Such collaborations include users assisting one another in completing missions challenges certain game levels or for obtaining bonus points prizes etc. Such social interaction and collaboration in online games is appealing to many users that wish to share some of their gaming experience with other friends. However the existing online games have limitations that restrict social interaction and collaboration. For instance when a user receives an invitation at the social network to join the online game and to collaborate with other users the user has to exit out of the social network and access the online game from the online gaming source.

Various embodiments are presented for allowing interactive post of an online game within a social network. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method for sharing game play over a social network is disclosed. The method includes executing a play session of a game. During execution of the play session an option is provided to share a portion of the game on a social network. In response to receiving a request to share the portion of the game an instance of the game is generated at a time when the request is received. The instance of the game inherits a current state of the play session. The request for sharing acts to post the instance of the game to a stream of the social network. A reward is generated to a user account of a user that plays the instance in the stream and to the user account of a user that initiates the request to share the portion of the game.

In another embodiment a method for sharing game play over a social network is disclosed. The method includes detecting a posting of an instance of a game in a stream of the social network. The instance of the game provides a current state of a play session of a user sharing a portion of the game on the social network. In response to receiving a request to play the instance of the game in the stream an expanded interactive component of the game is presented along with one or more controls for playing the game from within the stream of the social network. A reward is generated in response to game play to a user account of a user playing the instance of the game and to the user that shared the instance of the game in the stream of the social network.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium embedding program instructions for sharing game play over a social network is disclosed. The computer readable storage medium includes program instructions for executing a play session of a game. The program instructions for executing a play session include program instructions for providing an option to share a portion of the game on a social network during execution of the play session. The computer readable storage medium further includes program instructions for receiving a request to share the portion of the game. In response to receiving a request the program instruction is further configured to generate an instance of the game at a time when the request is received and post the instance of the game to a stream of the social network. The instance of the game inherits a current state of the play session. The computer readable storage medium further includes program instruction for generating a reward to a user account that plays the instance in the stream and a reward to a user account that initiated the request to share the portion of the game.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe a method and apparatus for executing a game. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

The embodiments provide a way for users to play the online game share game state of the online game with one or more social contacts within one or more of their social groups using social network and to seek assistance from the one or more of their social contacts to achieve a desired target perform a challenging task to enhance their winnings or to overcome certain challenges in the online game. The game state and game controls to participate in the online game are provided within the social network to enable the social contacts to participate in the online game from within the social network and contribute to the winnings of the user. The game rewards obtained in the online game through the game play of the social contacts are shared between the user and the respective social contacts thereby providing an incentive for the social contacts to participate in the online game.

The various embodiments discussed herein provide an interactive and collaborative online game that uses the social network as a collaboration site for enabling social contacts within the one or more social groups of the user to access and participate in the online game. The social contacts need not have to leave the confines of the social network in order to participate in the online game as the game state and the controls to access and participate are provided within a stream of the social network. With the general understanding of the invention various embodiments for managing participation and distributing rewards in an online game will now be described with reference to the enclosed drawings.

As used herein a social contact of a user refers to a person that has established a social link or social relationship with the user within a social network. The social contact may belong to one or more social groups within one or more social network of the user. For example a social contact may be a friend a relative or a person that shares a common interest and or that the user has met interacted with in real life or over the internet. In some embodiments the social contact may be an acquaintance established through a social network such as a friend of a friend of the user in the social network become friends of the user. It should be noted that two persons who may be friends in real life may not be social contacts of one another if the two have not established an interrelationship online. Alternately if two persons do not know each other in real life but have established interrelationship online then these two persons will be social contacts of one another for all or some of the social interactions performed online.

It should also be noted that the various embodiments are described herein with reference to a slots online game to provide an understanding. It should however be noted that the principles may be extended to other online games or applications that require or benefit from social collaboration described in the various embodiments. The embodiments described herein should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the game manager provides access to the online game and manages the game operations for each of the players. The various modules within the game manager are configured to interact with each other to perform the respective game operations of the online game. In addition the various modules within the game manager access and manage game related data stored in the various databases during the execution of the online game. In one embodiment the access manager is configured to validate a user and provide access to the online game executing on the server . The access manager provides the online game interface and data information that is used to populate the various fields within at the client . For instance the access manager provides the game state of the online game which is a current view of the game as well as any game rewards awarded to the user during game play. The game rewards in one embodiment may include points prizes incentives tools etc. in response to the user s participation or interest in the online game. The access manager interacts with game data and user data to retrieve the information related to the online game and presents the game state and the game rewards at the client device for the user. In addition the access manager provides one or more controls for accessing and participating in the online game. When the user accesses the game through the client the access manager synchronizes game operations with the client manages communications with the client etc.

Update manager manages updates to the game state and game rewards at the game interface and in the respective databases such as user data and the game data in response to the user interactions at the online game. In one embodiment the update manager includes game mechanics logic not shown to receive the interaction from a user interpret the interaction and to compute game state and game awards based on the interpretation. For example in an online game such as a slot machine game the game mechanics logic receives the user interaction interprets the user interaction and performs game simulation to determine outcome of the game and computes possible game rewards won related to the user s interaction such as spinning of the game. The game rewards won by the user are commensurate with the status of the online game based on the user s game play in the online game. For example the slot game is a game of chance and the computation of game rewards to be awarded to the user is based on game rules and a degree of randomness related to the game of chance. The probability of each outcome of the online game is driven by data and logic set up by game designers. The game design data stores the various logics associated with the online game and make it available to the update manager and to distribution manager . The game design data may in one embodiment related to slot machine game specify the various symbols provided in the online game the combinations that result in generating game rewards the odds of obtaining the combinations and winning game rewards etc.

Additionally the update manager receives requests to share a portion of the game with one or more users on a social network. The request for sharing the game may be received through a share manager and the share manager may interact with the update manager to provide an instance of the game in response to the request. The update manager in response to the request for sharing retrieves the game state at the time the request for sharing was received possible game rewards and or incentives from the respective databases and generates an instance of the game for sharing. The instance of the game based on the information retrieved includes the current game state of the game and other attributes of the game and of the user that initiated i.e. publisher or initiator the sharing of the game. The instance of the game also includes one or more controls to access and play the game.

The update manager forwards the instance of the game and the game related information back to the client game interface on the client in a content stream of a social network so that one or more social contacts of the social network selected for sharing can access and play the game. The updated game state presents a current view of the online game for social contacts of the social network.

Referring to when the share manager within the game manager receives a request from the user to share the online game with other users in a social network the share manager generates an instance of the game of the user initiating the sharing request. The instance of the game inherits current state of the play session resulting from the user s interaction at the game for sharing in a stream of the social network. One or more controls are provided at the online game interface at the client device that are user selectable for enabling a user to share the game with other users. illustrates one exemplary share control provided by the access manager that can be selected by the user for sharing the online game with one or more users within one or more social networks of the user. The share control illustrated in is exemplary and should not be considered restrictive or limiting. Other forms of share control may be provided at the game interface rendered on the client for enabling the user to share the online game with other social contacts within one or more social groups in the social network of the user.

In one embodiment when the user selects the share control the user is provided with one or more social networks one or more social groups within one or more social networks and or one or more social contacts available within one or more social groups of the user to select for sharing an instance of the online game. illustrates an exemplary view of the social contacts of the user that is provided by the share manager . In order to provide this information the share manager interrogates the user data and social data and retrieves the one or more social groups and one or more social contacts within each of the social groups associated with the user from the social data and returns this information to the client for rendering and user selection at the share control box . When a user selects the social networks and or social groups of the user the user is presented with social contacts from the selected social networks and or social groups in a social contact selection interface for the user to select other users to share the instance of the online game. The user who initiates the sharing of an instance of the online game is the initiator.

In addition to the one or more controls for sharing the share manager may also provide game incentives in accordance to pre defined game rules which the initiator can extend to other users. The initiator can use the game incentives to encourage the other users to play the shared online game. The initiator interacts with the social contact selection interface to identify the social contacts with whom to share the instance of the online game and provide the game incentives to the other users encouraging the other users to play the game. In one embodiment the initiator may select a subset of the identified social contacts to share the game incentives. In another embodiment the initiator may select to share the game incentives with all of the identified social contacts with whom he shares the instance of the game. illustrates the user interface of the instance of the online game rendered at the client device of the initiator identifying the social groups and social contacts from the selected social groups of the initiator for sharing the game.

The share manager receives the user selection of one or more social groups. and one or more social contacts within the one or more social groups to share the online game. illustrates a user interface of the game rendered at the initiator s client device after the initiator has selected the social contacts to share the instance of the game. also shows the game incentives that the initiator is offering to the selected social contacts to encourage the social contacts to play the instance of the online game.

Continuing to refer to the share manager receives the selection of the social contacts from the client retrieves the respective social contact information from the social data such as transmitting information etc. retrieves information related to the online game from game data such as current state game rewards and game incentives provided by the user from the user data social data and from user interface generates an instance of the game at the time the request was received at the share manager and forwards the retrieved generated information related to the online game to the selected social contacts in a post to a stream of the social network. In one embodiment the information related to the online game includes rewards scores game level game tools game options available game incentives and game graphics related to the current state of the game. The game state in one embodiment is provided in a Shockwave Flash SWF file format which is an interactive application component. The SWF file is a file format that is commonly used in browser games for rendering multimedia vector graphics etc. The SWF file can contain animations or applets of varying degrees of interactivity and function. The SWF file is formatted for displaying animated vector graphics on the Internet. The SWF file format is an exemplary format for providing the instance of the game and should not be considered limiting. Other formats may be used to provide the instance of the game.

In one embodiment the posting of the instance of the online game with current state information is active for a pre defined life span. In this embodiment upon expiration of the life span the post in the stream of the social network with information related to the online game provided to the one or more social contacts is invalidated.

In one embodiment in addition to the general incentives a periodic incentive may also be extended to all the social contacts to encourage the social contacts to participate in the online game and contribute toward achieving a goal for the user. In one embodiment the periodic incentive may be in the form of free points chips awards etc. In one embodiment the periodic incentive may be extended during the life span the post is active in the stream or once every pre defined period to encourage the social contacts to take advantage of the periodic incentive offer. illustrates an exemplary period extended with the periodic incentive offer to the social contacts in one embodiment. The period illustrated in is provided as a count down digital timer. As noted the period illustrated in is exemplary and should not be considered limiting. Other forms of providing period may be used.

Referring to the user interface of the game rendered for the initiator will not have any social contacts contributing initially. This may be the case as the initiator may not yet have shared the game. As a result the contributing user box will be empty as illustrated in . When the initiator initiates sharing by posting the instance of the game in the stream of the social network of selected social contacts and the one or more of the selected social contacts play the game in the stream and accept the winning awards the share manager updates the contributing user box and provides visible indication of the social contacts that have accessed the online game provided in the stream of the social network and interacted to contribute toward achieving a goal for the user at the client . In one embodiment the visible indicator is in the form of images of the social contacts that are provided in the contributing user box . Referring now to images of the social contacts that have contributed toward achieving the goal for the user are illustrated in a contributing users box at the initiator s game user interface. The contributing users box is an aggregate of all the social contacts that have played the online game shared by the user accepted the rewards awards i.e. clicked in the game to accept the award and each social contact s contribution in the form of game rewards for example toward the initiator s subsequent game play. User interaction such as mouse over at each contributor s image in the contributing users box will display the extent of influence the contributing social contact has on the winnings of the initiator s subsequent game play. For example as illustrated in when the initiator interacts at a social contact s image by mousing over the image for example the social contact s contribution to the initiator s subsequent game play is shown in box . In the example the social contact Andy contributed to a fold increase in the winnings for the initiator s subsequent game. As a result during a subsequent game play of the slot game by the initiator the initiator is awarded 5 times his winnings awarded during the game. In one embodiment the social contact s contribution in the form of award multiplier is active for the current session of the initiator.

In one embodiment in addition to information related to the game rewards periodic incentives and game incentives the share manager may also provide options to provide additional incentives that are different in scope than the aforementioned incentives. The additional incentives may be in the form of tools levels etc. while the aforementioned incentives may be in the form of game points. The additional incentives may be provided to selective one or more social contacts for their contribution and or to encourage them to continue contributing to the online game of the user.

Referring now to the content stream with the information related to the online game is presented to a social contact when the social contact accesses his her stream in the social network. illustrates an exemplary GUI representation of the posting with an instance of the game and the information related to the online game provided in a content stream by the share manager at the social contact s social network in response to a request for sharing the online game received from the user. The information related to the online game includes a game state of the online game of the user and one or more controls to access and participate in the online game from within the social network.

Referring to when the social contact accesses the online game from within the social network stream and plays the game using the control the interactive component of the online game allows expansion of the online game interface within the content stream in the social network so as to allow the social contacts to interact and participate in the online game in the stream without leaving the social network. The expanded online game rendered in the social network of the social contact is an actual instance of the initiator s online game capturing the current state of the game including game state image score etc. from the initiator s client at a time when the initiator decided to share the online game with the one or more social contacts. In addition to the game state one or more controls are provided for the social contact to participate in the online game within the social network. illustrates an exemplary GUI representation of the online game provided in the stream of the social network of a social contact. As illustrated the content stream of the social network for the social contact includes the game interface with the game state and controls for playing the online game from within the social network. When the online game controls are accessed through the access control of an expanded version of the online game interface is provided along with an interaction control to enable a social contact to interact with the online game and contribute to the online game of the user. When the user completes playing the game or after playing for a period of time the social contact may decide to claim his rewards. illustrates the interaction control that allows the social contact to claim his rewards. The social contact may use the interaction control to click into the game to claim the rewards. The click into option is implemented as a claim button . When the social contact claims his awards the user data and the game data for the social contact is updated with the social contact s winnings.

Referring back to the distribution manager keeps track of the interactions at the online game from within the stream of the social network by the various social contacts with whom the initiating user has shared the online game. In one embodiment when the social contact claims his awards the distribution manager then interacts with the update manager to determine the game state and game rewards to be awarded to the social contact based on the social contact s interactions at the online game interface in the social network. The game state and game rewards as explained earlier are determined by the game mechanics logic within the update manager . The distribution manager distributes the game rewards to the respective social contact in response to the social contact s selection of the claim button and awards an equivalent game multiplier to the initiator. In one embodiment the distribution manager uses a pre defined distribution algorithm to determine proportion of allocation of the game rewards to the social contact s based on the social contact s game play and the magnitude of game multiplier to be awarded for the initiator. In one embodiment the game reward allocation may depend on attributes associated with the online game and the attributes associated with the social contact playing the online game. For instance some of the attributes of the online game for the game reward allocation may include skill level of the online game played number of challenges met type and quantity of game rewards awarded etc. and some of the attributes of the social contact may include amount of time spent interacting at the online game skill level of the social contact reliability of the social contact etc. In one embodiment game reward awarded to the initiator from each of the social contacts participation is received and aggregated and the aggregated game reward is used to determine the multiplier to be awarded to the initiator. The update manager updates the game rewards to the respective social contact s account within the game data and or user data upon the social contact s acceptance of the reward and the game multiplier is updated to the initiator s account within the game data. In one embodiment the aggregation and updating of the game rewards to the user accounts within the game data for the social contacts and the initiator is done periodically. The distribution manager also updates the game state of the online game for the initiator by aggregating the game states of all the social contacts and using the aggregated game state to update the game state of the initiator so that the initiator is presented with the most up to date view of the online game. This includes updating the game state image game rewards etc. In one embodiment the updates to the user accounts of the social contacts and the initiator are performed only upon the social contacts clicking into the game and accepting the game rewards. The game state of the online game for the initiator is saved in the game data and retrieved when the initiator next initiates online game play.

With the general understanding of the various modules of the system methods for managing rewards in online games will now be described with reference to . illustrates method operations for sharing online game play over a social network in one embodiment of the invention. The method begins at operation wherein a play session of the online game is established on a server. The server such as a game server provides access to the online game executing on the server and allows the user to interact with the game during a play session. The access may be provided through a game portal or from within a social network available to the user. The access may be provided as a link within the social network. During the play session the user interaction at the online game are tracked and information related to play session of the online game by the user are received and updated to appropriate user and game data maintained by a game manager executing on the server. The information related to the online game play affects the game state and the game rewards awarded to the user. The game manager may engage game mechanics logic to evaluate the game play in order to determine game state and the game rewards. In online games such as slot machine games the game state may be a result of random probability.

During the engagement of the user in the online game the game manager may receive a request from the user for sharing a portion of the online game with one or more social contacts within one or more social groups of the social network as illustrated in operation . The user initiating the request is the initiator or publisher.

In response to the request the game manager captures the game state of the online game of the user at the time the request to share was initiated by the user and generates an instance of the game. The instance of the game inherits the captured game state of the online game of the play session of the user. The game state includes the status image game rewards i.e. game score etc of the online game of the user. The game manager then posts the instance of game along with one or more controls to a stream of the social network of selected ones of the social contacts. The controls provided with the instance of the game allow the social contacts to access and participate in the online game from within the stream of the social network. In one embodiment the game manager retrieves online contact information i.e. information used for transmitting the online game state of the selected ones of the social contacts and uses the contact information to post the instance of the game in a stream of the social network that is accessible to the respective social contacts. The social contacts in turn access the instance of the game in the stream of the social network participate and contribute to the online game of the user from within the social network using the provided controls and accept the awards. The participation of the social contacts in the game affects the game state and generates game rewards for the social contacts to claim. When the social contacts claim the awards the game rewards are credited to the user account of the social contacts and the game rewards are used to compute a game multiplier for the user as illustrated in operation . The game multiplier is updated to the user s account and is used in computing the winnings of the user when the user subsequently accesses and plays the online game.

The game manager monitors the interaction of the social contact at the online game interface within the stream in the social network and uses the game mechanics logic within to determine the game rewards to be awarded and the game state of the online game based on the game play. When the social contact clicks into the game by interacting with a claim option the game manager identifies the share of the game rewards that are to be awarded to the social contact playing the instance of the game from within the social network and a game multiplier for the user initiating the sharing based on a pre defined distribution algorithm and updates the user and the social contact s accounts with the respective share of game multiplier game rewards. The game rewards generated to the social contact may include incentives that are extended to the social contact for participating in the online game. The game manager also updates the game state of the online game of the user initiating the sharing to reflect a current view of the online game. When more than one social contact responds to the request to participate in the online game and accepts by claiming the game rewards the game manager aggregates the game rewards of the social contacts and computes the game multiplier for the user initiating the sharing using the aggregated game rewards and updates the user s account in the game data with the game multiplier. The game multiplier is used in determining the user s winnings when the user subsequently accesses and plays the game. It is understood that not all the social contacts that received the invitation may participate in the online game or participate at the same time. In recognition of this fact the game manager monitors each social contact s interaction and participation in the online game in an ongoing manner and periodically performs the aggregation based on the rewards generated due to the one or more social contacts participation during that period and dynamically updates the appropriate share of the game rewards to the respective social contact s game account and the multiplier to the user s account.

It should be noted that the various embodiments described herein the instance of the game based on a user s desire to share a portion of the online game over the social network is generated at the game server executing the game play and is distributed to the social network server through the respective posts in the respective streams of the one or more social networks. It is also noted that the reward to a user account is generated in response to the social contacts interaction at the social network server that is executing the instance of the online game shared by the user in the stream and credited to the respective user s accounts in response to the social contacts clicking into the game and claiming the awards. The game reward and game multiplier is computed by a game mechanics logic or processing logic contained in the instance of the game executing on the social network server and updated to respective databases i.e. user data game data etc. available to the game server executing the play session of the user initiating the share request.

The various embodiments of the invention identify an interactive online game that can be accessed and played directly from a stream of a social network and the users need not have to leave the social network page. The online game interface provided to the social contacts is an actual instance of the online game of a user and is not a link that would direct the social contact to a different page for playing the online game. When the social contact desires to play the game the access controls allow expansion of the online game interface in the stream of the social network and the interaction controls provided in the instance of the game enables the social contact to participate in the online game of the user and claim game awards without leaving the stream or the social network. When the social contact is done playing the game the social contact can continue browsing the content streams within the news feed in the social network making this a robust and efficient way for collaborating with other users to achieve a desired goal in the online game.

When a player provides an input into the player s client device the client device may in response send a message via the communications network to the social networking server. The social networking server may update the player profile save the message to a database send messages to other players etc. The social gaming network may include a social graph database which stores player relationships social player profiles player messages and player social data.

The gaming servers host one or more gaming applications and perform the computations necessary to provide the gaming features to the players and clients. One or more gaming databases store data related to the gaming services such as the gaming applications and modules virtual gaming environment data player gaming session data player scores player virtual gaming profiles game stage levels etc. The gaming servers may utilize the data from the gaming databases to perform the computations related to providing gaming services for the players.

Room Servers manage the slot rooms system in the game including the creation tracking expiration abandonment and deletion of rooms. In addition a room database holds room information and design db holds information data.

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. An example of a social network is Facebook but it is possible to have other embodiments implemented in other social networks. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation slots server jackpot server gambling server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnects.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

