---

title: Water air-bubble fragment recovery test apparatus
abstract: A water air-bubble fragment recovery test apparatus that facilitates accurate assessment of fragmentation characteristics and lethality that are normally detonated in air. An airtight, waterproof plastic container encloses a test warhead; the plastic container may then also be filled with a gas or just with air. The container is then embedded in a water-gas-bubble mixture found in a water tank, for the warhead to be detonated therein, and the fragments to then be later recovered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08850885&OS=08850885&RS=08850885
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08850885
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

It is necessary to find an improved test apparatus that allows soft recovery of high velocity projectiles with minimum breakage or fractures and in particular an apparatus that facilitates accurate and inexpensive assessment of fragmentation characteristics and lethality of explosive fragmentation munitions upon detonation. Conventional techniques for recovery of high velocity Explosively Formed Fragments generated by Shaped Charge Jets Explosively Formed Penetrator Warheads and Explosive Fragmentation Munitions had been traditionally relying on low density fragment capture media such as packs of fiberboard Celotex panels ballistic gelatin styrofoam etc. In particular in the case of Explosive Fragmentation Munitions conventional recovery methods include firing munitions into an open air arena fragmentation test structure cylindrical structure enclosing the test warhead with a series of side by side packs of fiberboard panels capturing only a small portion of the fragments typically bellow 6 of the total or into completely enclosed rectangular or cylindrical plastic or steel structures filled with the fragment capture media usually loose sawdust or water.

In a typical fragmentation arena test setup tested munitions are positioned at the origin of the reference polar coordinate system and surrounded with series of velocity measuring screens and fragment catching witness panels all at significant distances from the warhead. The distance between the warhead and the fragment capture panels is determined by the weight of the explosive contained in the warhead the type of the explosive and the resilience of the panel structure to survive blast and fragment impact loads. For example for an approximately 13 lb TNT filled warhead the standoff distances are in the order of approximately 6 meters and by the time fragments reach the capture packs the average fragment velocities drop by approximately 20 to 30 compared to that at the burst. Defining the longitudinal axis of the munition as the polar axis z the polar altitudinal angles are measured from the munition s nose 0 to the tail 180 and the azimuthal angles are measured from an arbitrary projectile s feature 0 in a counterclockwise direction. In conventional fragmentation arena test procedures fragment sampling and fragment velocity measuring is usually limited to relatively small azimuthal sections mainly because of enormous construction and data assessment costs associated with recovering fragments from the entire fragmenting shell. This sampling technique requires the assumption of isotropic fragmentation properties for all azimuthal angles throughout the entire angle zone i.e. a complete altitudinal region bounded by two polar angles . By sampling small azimuthal angles across all polar zones from the munition nose to tail and adjusting this sample data mathematically a prediction for entire munition fragment characterization is obtained. Since only a small azimuthal section of the region is sampled and scaled up even relatively small munition positioning errors may result in large deviations of the fragmentation data routinely requiring repeated testing for statistical data stability. For example with only 6 of all the fragments recovered in the arena test structure the discrepancy between numbers of fragments recovered from repeated fragmentation arena tests and that from a completely enclosed rectangular sawdust or water recovery structure is typically 25 to 30 .

In the second type of the fragmentation characterization test setup commonly known as a 100 fragment capture test the tested munition is completely enclosed by the test structure filled with low density fragment capture media usually sawdust or water or with a combination thereof. Because the test structure can be re used and the fragment recovery and counting can be easily automated the 100 fragment capture test costs are substantially lower than that of the fragmentation arena tests making it extremely useful in the initial munition development phases.

In the 100 fragment capture test the fragment recovery rate is usually approximately 96 to 99.5 of the initial fragmentation case mass depending on the test setup the capture medium employed and the mechanical properties of the fragmentation case material. Given the maximum 99.5 fragment recovery rate and typical fragmentation case materials approximately 2 to 4 of the case mass usually ends up in a multitude of fragments with weights below 0.2 grains partially because of the natural fragment formation process partially because of the secondary fragment breakup caused by the capture medium. Since contribution to the lethality of small fragments with weight below 0.2 grains is minimal these fragments are usually neglected in the fragmentation warhead characterization and commonly referred to as fragment dust .

In the case of the fragmentation arena test setup because the fragments are first gently decelerated by the air drag and then captured by fiberboard or other types of capture panels the secondary fragment breakage is usually significantly less than that in the 100 fragment recovery tests either in the sawdust or in the water. For example X ray flash radiography of fragmentation munitions detonated in free air reveals presence of large numbers of long spaghetti like fragments never captured if the same warheads had been tested either in the water or in the sawdust. It should be noted that although the 100 fragment capture test data is a strong function of the fragment capture medium employed the resulting data are usually statistically stable with the average deviations in the order of 3 to 5 at the maximum. Accordingly the solution for improving the accuracy of the 100 fragment capture test can be found by optimizing properties of the fragment capture medium.

This invention relates to an improved fragment recovery test apparatus and more particularly to a test apparatus for 100 recovery of fragments resulting from detonation of explosive fragmentation munitions. According to such means a low density water gas bubble suspension medium is provided which enables optimal deceleration of high velocity fragments and minimization of fragment damage otherwise ordinarily exerted by the fragment capture medium drag forces. According to an embodiment of the invention the munition is exploded into a water gas bubble mixture which is generated by pumping pressurized air through an air bubble dispenser immersed in a water tank a test warhead is then loaded into a hollow openable plastic container supported within the water tank and can then be detonated in such mixed water gas bubble suspension medium.

Shown here is a water air bubble fragment recovery test apparatus that facilitates accurate assessment of fragmentation characteristics and lethality of explosive fragmentation munitions that are normally detonated in air. The low density water gas bubble suspension media enables optimal deceleration of high velocity fragments and minimizes fragment damage normally exerted by drag forces. As described in this invention this water gas bubble mixture is generated by pumping pressurized air through an air bubble dispenser immersed in a water tank. An airtight waterproof plastic container encloses a test warhead the plastic container may then also be filled with a gas or just with air which gas or air might also be loaded at a pressure above standard if so desired. The container is then embedded in the water gas bubble mixture found in the tank for the warhead to be detonated therein.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide an improved fragment recovery system for explosive fragmentation munitions that heretofore have been detonated in air.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a water air bubble fragment recovery test apparatus that facilitates accurate assessment of fragmentation characteristics and lethality of explosive fragmentation munitions.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here just for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

