---

title: Public health data exchange bridge and post office
abstract: A system facilitates management of public health data. The system includes an input interface, a policy data structure, a notification compliance engine, and a data translator. The input interface receives input data content descriptive of a public health event. The policy data structure stores reporting conditions for a plurality of public health jurisdictions. The notification compliance engine reviews at least some of the reporting conditions of the policy data structure and identifies a relevant reporting condition for the input data content. The data translator derives and arranges output data content based on the input data content according to the relevant reporting condition identified by the notification compliance engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043345&OS=09043345&RS=09043345
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09043345
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120525
---
Public health programs are tasked with the collection of individual and population data from a variety of sources. Some examples of such data include but are not limited to birth records immunization records reportable diseases laboratory reportable findings syndromic surveillance feeds and death records. This data may be used to identify investigate perform care coordination evaluate care outcomes and mitigate barriers to health.

In the US the responsibilities of public health programs as well as their data sources are legislated at the state level. Consequently there can be great variation from state to state and even county to county within a state . Typically public health programs are subject to voluntary or mandatory reporting requirements. In both cases the programs are consistently limited by a lack of timely reports and significant under reporting. This level of performance may be due in part to the lack of incentives for compliance and or the infrequency of consequences for non compliance.

Becoming compliant can be very challenging. There is not a universal public health reporting implementation because each public health jurisdiction can have its own policies and report receiving capabilities. This non uniformity among public health requirements in various jurisdictions significantly increases costs for compliance.

For the majority of data sources conventional reporting involves manual completion of a public health paper form that is mailed or faxed to the appropriate program. A few states have created web portals for smaller reporting sources to enter their data. Unfortunately there are potential problems with implementations that rely on current paper forms and web portals. One potential problem results from manually identifying the reportable activity reportable locality and the locality s policies. Another potential problem involves storing the forms or maintaining web links for accessing the forms. Another potential problem involves entering the data that may exist electronically in one format into another format corresponding to a program s proprietary system. These conventional implementations also can consume a lot of time and or resources.

In some instances larger reporting organizations have implemented custom electronic feeds. Unfortunately there are also potential problems with custom electronic feeds. In some implementations there is not enough public funding to maintain these interfaces. Also a custom electronic feed may be limited in the ability to help the reporting needs of the majority of data sources. Also a custom electronic feed likely will not cover the cases that need reporting to jurisdictions outside the state or local jurisdiction.

Embodiments of a system are described. In one embodiment the system facilitates management of public health data. An embodiment of the system includes an input interface a policy data structure a notification compliance engine and a data translator. The input interface receives input data content descriptive of a public health event. The policy data structure stores reporting conditions for a plurality of public health jurisdictions. The notification compliance engine reviews at least some of the reporting conditions of the policy data structure and identifies a relevant reporting condition for the input data content. The data translator derives and arranges output data content based on the input data content according to the relevant reporting condition identified by the notification compliance engine. Other embodiments of the system are also described.

Embodiments of a method are also described. In one embodiment the method is a method for managing public health data. An embodiment of the method includes receiving input data content in any of a plurality of data input formats. The input data content is descriptive of a public health event. The method also includes generating standardized data content based on at least some of the input data content. The method also includes accessing a policy repository. The policy repository stores a plurality of reporting conditions for a plurality of public health jurisdictions. The method also includes identifying a relevant reporting condition for a target public health jurisdiction. The method also includes generating output data content based on the standardized data content according to the relevant reporting condition for the target public health jurisdiction. Other embodiments of the method are also described.

Embodiments of a computer program product are also described. In one embodiment the computer program product includes a computer useable storage medium to store a computer readable program for managing public health data. When the computer readable program is executed on a computer the computer readable program causes the computer to perform operations for managing public health data. The operations may include any of the operations described in conjunction with the methods and systems described herein.

Other aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrated by way of example of the principles of the invention.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein and illustrated in the appended figures could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by this detailed description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussions of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the description herein that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the indicated embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

While many embodiments are described herein at least some of the described embodiments implement a public health bridge and post office system.

For reference the phrase health care providers is used herein to refer to any individual or entity which provides health care services to a patient. The health care providers may provide health care services directly or indirectly to a patient. Direct health care providers may include doctors and other personnel or entities which personally interact with patients. Indirect health care providers may include laboratory technicians and other personnel or entities which provide services on behalf of patients but do not necessarily interact personally with the patients. For convenience the health care providers also may be referred to as health care service providers service providers providers or another similar designation.

To comply with notifiable condition statutes regulations and rules health care providers report information about observed conditions to public health agencies in various jurisdictions. These statutes regulations and rules can be very specific and exist at nearly every level of government municipal county state national e.g. U.S. Centers for Disease Control CDC and Prevention and international e.g. World Health Organization WHO . For example a specific observed condition e.g. malarial symptoms may be reported to a specific department e.g. tropical diseases of multiple agencies where the patient acquired the disease and the patient s home location . These departments may expect the information in different formats e.g. paper form electronic report and delivered via different mechanisms e.g. fax web service . It can be difficult for a provider to know exactly where and how to report such information.

In some embodiments the system is referred to as a bridge because certain functionality facilitates communicating report information from service providers to public health jurisdictions thereby bridging the communication channel between these entities. In some embodiments the system is also referred to as a post office because certain functionality facilitates storage of the report information similar to a post office mail box for subsequent retrieval by personnel from a public health jurisdiction or another authorized user .

In one embodiment the public health bridge and post office is a software system that provides a set of services that facilitate the collection routing and delivery of public health data from providers to local state and or federal public health agencies. In contrast to proprietary or customized public health management systems embodiments of the public health bridge and post office may be open community environments to support collaboration and cooperation among various entities that are otherwise unrelated.

Because different public health organizations agencies and jurisdictions often have different reporting requirements the public health bridge and post office can act as a clearinghouse for such reporting requirements. The public health bridge and post office can also act as an intermediary facilitator to more accurately enable providers to send the correct information to the relevant jurisdictions according to each jurisdictions distinct content protocol and delivery mechanism requirements.

For example although two different jurisdictions both may accept electronic reports each jurisdiction may have distinct requirements on the type of electronic document format that is accepted. Similarly each jurisdiction may have distinct requirements on the type of electronic transmission protocol that is used for the submissions. Also each jurisdiction may have distinct requirements on the type of delivery mechanism e.g. fax email etc. that is required for the submissions.

In other examples some jurisdictions currently may not have the necessary infrastructure or budget to implement electronic reporting. Such jurisdictions may have separate paper reporting requirements.

While several embodiments are described herein at least some embodiments of the public health bridge may provide an open source technology that plays the role of a post office for reportable disease. Implemented as a service any clinic or other provider can access the bridge to submit information on cases of reportable disease. In some embodiments the bridge automatically detects other potentially relevant data based on the zip code or other identifying characteristic of the patients and or the physicians. Some examples of potentially relevant data include but are not limited to a list of reportable conditions with medical codes by location a supported mechanism transmission protocol data format of reporting e.g. fax Health Level 7 HL7 Version 2 and Version 3 Messages and HL7 Clinical Document Architecture CDA etc. for the local public health agency and extensible collections of report forms customizable by local authorities. Internally the forms may be mapped to a clinical document format such as CDA. In other embodiments other types of clinical messaging and or clinical document formats standards may be used. The bridge can transform and output these to any of several supported reporting standards.

In one embodiment the most universal type of client interface to this service is an internet browser. The browser interface allows the clinician or lab to complete the appropriate structured form for the location and disease related to a particular public health event.

In some embodiments the public health bridge also exposes an application programming interface API so any electronic medical records EMR vendor can download the technology and wrap it inside their own EMR or laboratory information management system LIMS application. In this way conventional data entry steps for creating a public health report may be unnecessary. Using the API the clinical software may populate the required form directly from the patient s record. Additionally the system may be pluggable in that new input interfaces and delivery methods can be added without changing the core framework.

Also by making the public health bridge available to the public health and open source communities each local authority can contribute to and customize the forms for their location or jurisdiction. This allows each reporting jurisdiction to modify extend and otherwise manage as unique set of forms for reportable disease. Local authorities can also maintain a directory of where reports should be sent as well as the metadata indicating which standard format s they are prepared to receive. In this way new policies and rules also can be authored and deployed into the system.

In some embodiments the public health bridge and post office accepts data from providers in a variety of formats. The system then converts and internally maintains the input data in a standard representation such as the standard CDA representation. This can guarantee that the stored information conforms to a known standard when the information is exported from the system to another location or system. In other embodiments some or all of the data within the system is transient. In this way the data is only stored for approximately the duration of one or more transactions related to the data. In either case embodiments of the system are intended to maintain and comply with all relevant privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations.

There are many different possible uses for embodiments of the public health bridge and post office system. In one example the system may be used for notifiable condition reporting. In another example the system may be used in childhood immunization reporting. In another example the system may be used in syndromic surveillance operations. Other embodiments may be used to manage public health data related to various other public health events and initiatives.

The following description of the accompanying figures provides several examples of components functions features that may be implemented in one or more embodiments of the public health bridge and post office system. In many instances the public health bridge and post office system is referred to as a public health data management system. However the user of a particular nomenclature for one embodiment or another does not limit the implementation of components functions and or features that are described in conjunction with a different nomenclature. Accordingly any component feature and or function described herein at any location herein or in combination with any embodiment herein can be implemented in combination with any other component feature and or function.

The health service provider may be representative of a doctor clinic laboratory or any other entity that is involved with the provision of health services. Alternatively the health service provider may be another entity that is legally contractually or otherwise obligated or allowed to provide reporting information to the public health reporting jurisdictions .

The public health reporting jurisdiction is representative of any authoritative body that requires or otherwise accepts public health reports from the health service provider . In the United States of America it is common to have reporting authorities at local state and federal levels of the government. Each of these entities may be represented by a different public health reporting jurisdiction .

Additionally each of these jurisdictions may have a unique set of reporting conditions that specify what data is to be reported when it should be reported and how it should be reported. At least some of these reporting conditions may specify what the report receiving capabilities are for the corresponding jurisdiction .

In one embodiment the provider is aware of a public health event to be reported to one or more of the jurisdictions . The public health event may be any event for which one or more of the jurisdictions requires reporting. Some examples of public health events that may be reported include but are not limited to notifiable reporting conditions childhood immunization reporting and syndromic surveillance activities.

The provider may or may not have some type of internal system for reporting the public health event to the jurisdictions . In either case the provider sends input data content to the public health data management system . The input data content includes subject matter descriptive of the public health event . The amount and type of subject matter that is included in the input data content may vary depending on the type of public health event . Similarly the manner in which the input data content is delivered from the provider to the public health data management system may vary. In some embodiment the public health data management system includes functionality to accept various amount and types of data across various protocols and platforms.

Many of the specific functions of the public health data management system are described in more detail below with reference to . In general the public health data management system receives the input data content from the provider determines which public health reporting jurisdictions should receive corresponding reporting information formats the reporting information accordingly and sends output data content to each of the jurisdictions .

In general the input interface receives the input data content from the provider . The policy processor determines which public health reporting jurisdictions should receive corresponding reporting information. The policy processor also formats the reporting information for the separate reporting jurisdictions . The output interface sends the output data content to each of the jurisdictions .

When a provider has a document or other patient information for delivery to the relevant public health jurisdictions the provider submits the document or other patient information as input data content to the public health data management system . The provider may use a clinical EMR or EHR system to submit the document information to a standards based interface such as IHE Cross Enterprise Document Sharing XDS . The input interface also provides a forms based web user interface UI to populate records for a provider who does not have a clinical EMR.

In the illustrated embodiment the input interface includes a web interface an IHE XDS e.g. NHIN Connect interface a SOAP REST interface and a SMTP e.g. NHIN Direct interface . These various interfaces facilitate receiving various types of data formats based on various types of data transmission protocols. Other embodiments may include other types of interfaces or additional interfaces for other types of data formats protocols. In further embodiments another standardized set of input interfaces protocols and schemas may be used to collect the input data content from providers .

In one embodiment the input interface is extensible pluggable. Data is submitted to the extensible pluggable input interface . In this way the input interface may be designed to accept data over various transport protocols including but not limited to HTTP SMTP etc. and in various data interchange formats such as SOAP proprietary XML REST etc.

Optionally a provider may submit data using a forms based web UI which is represented as the web interface . In one embodiment the web interface is a backstop for providers that do not have other means of submitting data electronically such as an EMR system that supports standards based interoperability protocols . The web interface may be accessed through a web browser. In one embodiment the web interface prompts the provider for relevant information such as the provider s location the type of information being reported etc. Using this a priori knowledge the input interface may coordinate with the policy processor to identify and obtain relevant forms generate an HTML version of the proper forms and present the HTML version to the provider . The provider then may populate and submit the information via the form provided via the web interface .

In a further embodiment a provider may utilize a combination of the various interfaces within the input interface to submit the input data content related to a public health event . As one example the provider may submit partial information via the IHE XDS interface . Then upon detection by the policy processor of a requirement for further information from the provider a form may be generated and presented to the provider via the web interface in order to obtain the additional reporting information. Other embodiments may utilize a combination of interfaces in another manner.

Once the input data content is submitted via the input interface the input data content is passed to the policy processor for further manipulation. The illustrated policy processor includes a data mediator a standardized data repository a data translator a notification compliance engine a policy repository and a collaborative policy interface .

The input data content supplied into the public health data management system can come from various sources e.g. providers and may be largely disparate. For example some of the input data content may include non standard document formats and terminologies. To properly process this data in later stages of the pipeline the input data content is mediated and transformed i.e. standardized to a common internal data model. The data mediator may be pluggable and designed to support specific document formats including standard formats such as the Continuity of Care Document CCD and other non standard or proprietary inputs. The data mediator generates standardized data content N Data that is stored in the standardized data repository . For example the data mediator may convert the supported input formats to a common internal data format such as a standardized XML document like HL7 CDA. In this way the standardized data content conforms to a common internal data model that can be used in further processing operations.

In one embodiment the notification compliance engine provides functionality to determine which jurisdictions should receive reporting information for a particular public health event . Also the notification compliance engine determines what reporting conditions are applicable to the identified jurisdictions . To comply with notifiable condition statutes providers report specific conditions to specific agencies in the correct formats using the correct protocols. In one embodiment the notification compliance engine gives the care provider the public health program i.e. jurisdiction that should be notified and a mechanism for reporting. The mechanism for reporting may be the program s manual instructions for reporting an embedded electronic report submission form the system communication layer protocols for direct electronic submissions confirmations or another type of reporting format or protocol.

In one embodiment the notification compliance engine queries the policy repository to determine for particular input data content submitted to which department in which agency the reporting information should be delivered and how it should delivered. In other words the notification compliance engine determines the destination for the public health data based on a database of destinations and a set of rules or policies.

In one embodiment the policy repository aggregates the various public health statutes and policies into a database. This database may be used by the notification compliance engine and the other components of the policy processor to define mediate generate and deliver documents to the correct public health agencies based on information submitted.

The policy repository includes a policy data structure . depicts a schematic diagram of one embodiment of the policy data structure of . The illustrated policy data structure includes a plurality of entries which identify reporting conditions C for various public health reporting jurisdictions J . The policy data structure also includes entries which identify jurisdictions J that should receive reporting information for specific types of public health events E .

Although various designations and subscripts are used in the illustration of such designations and subscripts are not indicative of a particular quantity or type of reporting conditions jurisdictions and or public health events . Also such designations and subscripts are not indicative of a relative quantity order or other characteristic among the various reporting conditions jurisdictions and or public health events . Rather each entry and may be customized to a particular type of reporting condition jurisdiction and or public health event . Additionally other embodiments of the policy data structure may include more or less information. Also other embodiments of the policy data structure may implement other suitable arrangements for the amount and type of data associated with the policy data structure . Furthermore some embodiments may implement multiple policy data structures for a distributed arrangement of the data stored therein.

In some embodiments the reporting conditions specify a content requirement. The content requirement specifies data content that is required by a target public health jurisdiction .

In some embodiments the reporting conditions specify a protocol requirement. The protocol requirement specifies a data transfer protocol required by a target public health jurisdiction . As examples of possible protocol requirements the reporting conditions may specify a valid delivery or target format such as a standard clinical document format such as HL7 CDA a standard messaging format such as HL7V2 a standard document format such as portable document format PDF a spreadsheet format such as Microsoft Excel a paper format such as postal mail or facsimile an electronic voice message or another type of format or protocol identifier.

In some embodiments the reporting conditions specify a form. The form specifies a plurality of content fields required by a target public health jurisdiction .

In some embodiments the reporting conditions specify a delivery requirement. The delivery requirement specifies a data delivery mechanism required by a target public health jurisdiction . As examples of possible delivery requirements the reporting conditions may specify a destination encoded as a phone number a fax number an internet protocol IP address a universal resource locator URL a postal mailing address or another similar destination identifier.

Returning to the collaborative policy interface may be used by jurisdictional personnel or other authorized users to add delete or update one or more of the entries of the policy repository . Due to the size complexity and update frequency of the database entries the collaborative policy interface may facilitate crowdsourcing the management of the entries in the policy repository . Crowdsourcing is a type of community driven authorship. In one embodiment the database and tools are open source. In a specific implementation a web based tool is provided to receive relevant changes regarding public health policies and statutes for various jurisdictions .

Although various aspects of the policy repository may be updated through collaborative efforts some examples include updating policies and directories. Some examples of the types of policies that may be updated through collaborative efforts include but are not limited to where to report diseases and wherein to report vaccinations. Some examples of the types of directories that may be updated through collaborative efforts include but are not limited to directory routing tables directory addresses and directory phone books.

After the notification compliance engine determines where to send the report information and what report information to send the data translator derives and arranges the output data content for each corresponding jurisdiction . Although a single data translator is shown other embodiments may implement more than one data translator. For example some embodiments include a separate data translator for each different type of output data content .

In general the data translator transforms the standardized data content from the internal common data model into the correct document format i.e. delivery format or target document format for delivery based on information from the notification compliance engine . Formats may include but are not limited to a HL7 CDA document a PDF that resembles a paper form etc.

Once the document is in its target format as output data content the output interface makes the output data content available to the appropriate jurisdiction s . The illustrated output interface includes a delivery agent and a mailbox . In some embodiments the output interface also includes a feedback interface .

In one embodiment the delivery agent of the output interface initiates delivery of the output data content to the correct destination using information from the notification compliance engine . Delivery agents are pluggable and may include but are not limited to fax paper mail email web service telephone or video conference etc.

The mailbox provides an alternative delivery mechanism for public health agencies that do not have other means for directly receiving documents using one of the supported delivery agents . The illustrated mailbox includes a mailbox interface and a mailbox repository . In one embodiment the mailbox repository is a secure internal database that stores the output data content in mailboxes for subsequent retrieval by agencies departments. Officials may retrieve the output data content by accessing their mailbox using a mailbox interface such as a secure web user interface. In this way the mailbox collects public health data that can be securely accessed via a web browser or for the purposes of reporting and analysis.

In one embodiment the feedback interface provides one or more types of feedback to the provider or another user of the system . The feedback may relate to confirmation of receipt and processing of a submission from a provider . Alternatively the feedback may include summary data that identifies other potentially relevant information to communicate to the provider or other authorized user. For example the feedback interface may provide the clinical EMR system or client browser at the provider with summarized or comprehensive data so the provider or end user has situational awareness of other conditions that are being reported by other clinics at the time of a particular report.

In another embodiment some or all of the standardized data content or the output data content may be delivered to a data warehouse for aggregation and analysis. For example a secondary system not shown may monitor documents to identify early onset cross jurisdiction outbreaks that may not be apparent or obvious in individual jurisdictions.

The illustrated method begins as the input interface receives input data content in any of a plurality of data input formats. As explained above the input data content is descriptive of a public health event . The data mediator then generates and stores standardized data content in the standardized data repository . As mentioned above in some cases the standardized data content is only stored for a brief time period during the corresponding transaction s and is then deleted or otherwise removed from the system. The standardized data content is representative of the input data content .

The notification compliance engine identifies a target public health jurisdiction for reporting the public health event . The notification compliance engine also identifies a relevant reporting condition of the target public health jurisdiction . In one embodiment the notification compliance engine accesses the policy repository in order to identify the target public health jurisdiction and the relevant reporting condition.

The data translator then generates output data content from the standardized data content based on the relevant reporting condition for the target public health jurisdiction . The output interface then sends the output data content to the target public heath jurisdiction . The depicted method then ends.

In an alternative embodiment the output data content may be placed in the mailbox for subsequent retrieval by personnel from the appropriate jurisdiction . In another embodiment the output data content may be sent back to the provider with instructions about the preferred required way for the provider to send the output data content to the appropriate jurisdiction . Other embodiments may include additional alternative delivery approaches.

The depicted computer system includes a computer processing device which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The computer processing device may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the computer processing device may be practiced locally remotely or in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

In one embodiment the computer processing device includes components and functionality typical of a general purpose computing device. The components of the computer processing device may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processor .

The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

The computer processing device typically includes a variety of computer system readable media also referred to as computer readable media and or computer usable media . Such media may be any available media that is accessible by the computer processing device . Embodiments of the computer readable media may include one or more of the following types of media volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

The system memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . The computer processing device may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only a storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to the bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below the memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

In some embodiments a program utility having a set at least one of program modules is stored in the memory . The program modules generally carry out one or more of the functions and or methodologies of the embodiments described herein. The memory also may store an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and or program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a personal computer and or networking environment.

The computer processing device may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with the computer processing device and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable the computer processing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via input output I O interfaces . Additionally the computer processing device can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via a network adapter . As depicted the network adapter communicates with the other components of the computer processing device via the bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with embodiments of the computer processing device . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Embodiments of the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In one embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

An embodiment of the system described herein can include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus such as a data address and or control bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Additionally network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

In the above description specific details of various embodiments are provided. However some embodiments may be practiced with less than all of these specific details. In other instances certain methods procedures components structures and or functions are described in no more detail than to enable the various embodiments of the invention for the sake of brevity and clarity.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

