---

title: Video refresh adaptation algorithms responsive to error feedback
abstract: In general, this disclosure relates to techniques for adaptively determining a rate for intra-coding segments (e.g., macro-blocks) of video data within a sequence of video units (e.g., frames) in response to the receipt of error feedback that is provided by a video decoder. One example method includes receiving feedback from a video decoder that indicates an error associated with coded video data, and, upon receipt of the feedback, determining a rate for intra-coding a specified number of segments of video data for each video unit within a sequence of video units, wherein an intra-coding of segments of video data within one video unit is independent of a coding of segments of video data within other video units within the sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479800&OS=09479800&RS=09479800
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09479800
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 349 386 filed Jan. 6 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 043 005 filed on Apr. 7 2008 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Video coding and compression techniques may achieve efficient compression by reducing both temporal redundancies between video frames in a frame sequence and also spatial redundancies within a video frame. Examples of video coding and compression techniques are described by the ITU T H.261 H.263 Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 MPEG2 and MPEG4 standards as well as the ITU T H.264 standard and its counterpart ISO IEC MPEG 4 Part 10 i.e. Advanced Video Coding AVC .

An intra coded frame is self contained and reduces spatial redundancies within a video frame. An inter coded frame however is predicted via motion compensation from other coded frames e.g. previously coded frames to reduce temporal redundancies. Inter coding may achieve high compression efficiency. However the inter dependency between frames makes the coded bit stream for inter coded frames more susceptible to propagating channel errors. Errors introduced in the compressed bit stream may result in errors in the video frames reconstructed by a video decoder.

Intra coding may help minimize the possibility of propagating channel errors because the coding of video data in these frames is independent of the coding of video data in previous or subsequent frames. However intra coded frames may comprise many times more coded data than inter coded frames and may therefore cause transmission bandwidth issues. As a result there may be a degradation of quality on the decoded video output side particularly when decoding is performed by real time or streaming video applications. Thus in some cases video coding techniques may only intra code individual segments e.g. macro blocks of data within individual frames rather than intra coding all of the frame data.

Any given macro block within an inter coded frame i.e. Predicted frame P frame or Bi directionally predicted frame B frame may be intra coded as an intra macro block. Similar to intra coded frames an intra coded macro block is coded independently of data from another e.g. previously coded frame. The method of forcing macro blocks to be intra coded may be referred to as encoder intra refresh.

In general this disclosure relates to techniques for adaptively determining a rate for refreshing segments e.g. macro blocks of video data within a sequence of video units e.g. frames in response to the receipt of error feedback provided by a video decoder. This error feedback may comprise packet loss feedback indicating that the video decoder failed to receive packets within one or more frames of a frame sequence.

In some cases the error feedback comprises a Picture Loss Indication PLI message and or a General Negative Acknowledgment GNACK message that is sent by the video decoder. A PLI message indicates a loss of an undefined amount of coded video data belonging to one or more pictures while a GNACK message may identify specific packets of coded video data that have been lost.

An error feedback algorithm may be implemented to set a macro block intra refresh rate by the video encoder based upon the error feedback that is received from the video decoder. The video encoder may then use this intra refresh rate to intra code one or more macro blocks in each frame of a frame sequence.

In one aspect a method comprises receiving feedback from a video decoder that indicates an error associated with coded video data and upon receipt of the feedback determining a rate for intra coding a specified number of segments of video data for each video unit within a sequence of video units wherein an intra coding of segments of video data within one video unit is independent of a coding of segments of video data within other video units within the sequence.

In one aspect a computer readable medium contains instructions for causing one or more processors to receive feedback from a video decoder that indicates an error associated with coded video data and upon receipt of the feedback to determine a rate for intra coding a specified number of segments of video data for each video unit within a sequence of video units wherein an intra coding of segments of video data within one video unit is independent of a coding of segments of video data within other video units within the sequence.

In one aspect a device comprises a storage device and one or more processors coupled to the storage device and configured to receive feedback from a video decoder that indicates an error associated with coded video data and upon receipt of the feedback to determine a rate for intra coding a specified number of segments of video data for each video unit within a sequence of video units wherein an intra coding of segments of video data within one video unit is independent of a coding of segments of video data within other video units within the sequence.

In one aspect a method comprises detecting by a video decoder at least one error associated with coded video data sent from a video encoder determining a round trip travel time for data communication between the video decoder and the video encoder determining a last sent time at which the video decoder last sent the video encoder a feedback message indicating a previous error that was detected by the video decoder comparing a current time to a sum of the last sent time and the round trip travel time and based upon the comparing determining whether to send the video encoder a second feedback message indicating the at least one error detected by the video decoder.

In one aspect a device comprises a storage device and one or more processors coupled to the storage device. The one or more processors are configured to detect at least one error associated with coded video data sent from a video encoder determine a round trip travel time for data communication between the device and the video encoder determine a last sent time at which the device last sent the video encoder a feedback message indicating a previous error that was detected by the device and compare a current time to a sum of the last sent time and the round trip travel time. Based upon the comparison the one or more processors are further configured to determine whether to send the video encoder a second feedback message indicating the at least one error detected by the device.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the software may be executed in a processor which may refer to one or more processors such as a microprocessor application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA or digital signal processor DSP or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Software comprising instructions to execute the techniques may be initially stored in a computer readable medium and loaded and executed by a processor.

Accordingly this disclosure also contemplates computer readable media comprising instructions to cause a processor to perform any of a variety of techniques as described in this disclosure. In some cases the computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may be sold to manufacturers and or used in a device. The computer program product may include the computer readable medium and in some cases may also include packaging materials.

The details of one or more aspects are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

For purpose of illustration and description only device is referred to as a video encoder and device is referred to as a video decoder. In the description below various techniques provides details on exchanges of information between a device that performs encoding e.g. compression and a device that performs decoding e.g. decompression and thus device video encoder and device video decoder are shown as being communicatively coupled via network . It should be understood however that in certain aspects device and or device may perform encoding and or decoding operations. However it is assumed in the subsequent description for illustration purposes only that device performs at least video encoding operations and is therefore referred to as a video encoder while device performs at least video decoding operations and is therefore referred to as video decoder.

In some cases video encoder and video decoder may each be capable of executing various applications such as graphics applications video applications and or other multi media applications. For example video encoder and video decoder may be used for graphics applications video game applications video playback applications digital camera applications instant messaging applications video teleconferencing applications mobile applications or video streaming applications.

Video encoder and video decoder may each be capable of processing a variety of different data types and formats. For example they may be able to process still image data moving image video data or other multi media data. As will be described in more detail below video encoder is capable during an intra refresh procedure of intra coding one or more segments e.g. blocks or macro blocks or video data within one or more video units such as video frames within a sequence of video units to help reduce spatial redundancies within the sequence. Intra coded segments are segments that are coded independently of video data from a previously or subsequently coded video unit.

Any given macro block within an individual frame may be intra coded as an intra macro block. Similar to intra coded frames an intra coded macro block is coded independently of data from another e.g. previously coded frame. The method of forcing macro blocks to be intra coded may be referred to as encoder intra refresh. The rate at which macro blocks are intra coded may be referred to as an intra refresh rate. There may be various reasons for intra refreshing macro blocks such as for example inverse discrete cosine transform IDCT mismatch control by video decoder and error resilience.

To control IDCT mismatch such as within the context of the H.261 and H.263 block based video coding standards each macro block location in an image may be intra coded at least once every pre determined number of times that coefficients are transmitted for that macro block. The intra refresh of macro blocks may limit the extent of error propagation due to DCT IDCT mismatch.

To improve error resilience selected macro blocks may be intra coded to limit error propagation resulting from using corrupt macro blocks that have been incorrectly reconstructed or concealed due to channel errors. These corrupt macro blocks may upon decoding be visually objectionable. Furthermore correctly decoded macro blocks from subsequent frames that refer back to a corrupt macro block for temporal prediction may also be visually objectionable. These types of artifacts may be more objectionable than the DCT IDCT mismatch errors. As such they may drive an intra refresh strategy when communicating data over error prone channels.

Based upon error packet loss feedback that is received from video decoder video encoder is capable of dynamically adjusting the rate of intra refresh for intra coded blocks. In such fashion video encoder is able to optimize the quality of and reduce the number of errors in video data transmission to video decoder yet also manage the transmission bandwidth by controlling the number of intra coded blocks that are sent to video decoder over time. In some aspects feedback may include indications regarding any number of different types of packet errors associated with coded video data including indications of packet loss. For purposes of illustration only it will be assumed in the following description that feedback relates to packet loss feedback.

Video encoder includes a storage medium a display device and one or more processors . Storage medium may include any permanent or volatile memory that is capable of storing instructions and or data such as for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM embedded dynamic random access memory eDRAM static random access memory SRAM or flash memory. Display device may be any device capable of displaying video data for display purposes such as an LCD liquid crystal display plasma display device or other television TV display device. Processors may include one or more processors such as a control processor a video processor a graphics processor and or a display processor such as is shown in the example of . Display device and processors are each capable of reading from and writing to storage medium . For example processors may execute instructions from one or more functional modules that are stored in storage medium . These modules may comprise downloadable modules that are downloaded dynamically over the air into storage medium . In one aspect one or more of these modules may comprise binary instructions that are generated or compiled from application programming interface API instructions created by an application developer.

Although the example of shows intra encoder predictive encoder and rate adaptation module as modules stored within storage medium and executable by processors these modules may in other cases be implemented within hardware such as within the hardware of processors . Processors may in some cases include one or more types of processors such as a general purpose microprocessor and or other types of processors such as shown in the example of .

Over time video encoder sends coded video data to video decoder for decoding and display. If video decoder determines that it has lost one or more packets of video data such as by tracking packet sequence numbers it may send an indication that it has lost coded video data to video encoder . In this indication comprises packet loss feedback . In some cases packet loss feedback may include Real Time Control Protocol RTCP data or messages. For example packet loss feedback may include one or more General Negative Acknowledgment GNACK messages that each may identify one or more packets such as packets that have been lost. Packet loss feedback may include one or more Picture Loss Indication PLI messages which generally indicate the loss of an undefined amount of coded video data belonging to one or more pictures. In some cases packet loss feedback may include one or more Real Time Transport Protocol RTP messages such as receiver report messages that may also provide information regarding packet loss.

In the example of video decoder includes a storage medium a display device and one or more processors . Similar to storage medium storage medium may include any permanent or volatile memory that is capable of storing instructions and or data such as for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM embedded dynamic random access memory eDRAM static random access memory SRAM or flash memory. Similar to display device display device may be any device capable of displaying video data for display purposes such as an LCD liquid crystal display plasma display device or other television TV display device. Processors may include one or more processors such as a control processor a video processor a graphics processor and or a display processor. Display device and processors are each capable of reading from and writing to storage medium .

As shown in storage medium may include instructions for two functional modules an intra decoder and a predictive inter decoder . Intra decoder is capable of decoding and display intra coded segments e.g. blocks of video data contained within one or more video units e.g. frames that are sent across network by video encoder . Predictive decoder is capable of decoding and displaying inter coded segments that are sent by video encoder . Processors may execute these modules and to display video data on display device . Although the example of shows intra decoder and predictive decoder as modules stored within storage medium and executable by processors these modules may in other cases be implemented within hardware such as within the hardware of processors . Processors may in some cases include one or more types of processors such as a general purpose microprocessor and or other types of processors such as shown in the example of .

In some cases video decoder is further capable of performing encoding operations. In these cases video decoder may include modules similar to intra encoder predictive encoder and rate adaptation module . In some cases video encoder is further capable of performing decoding operations such as when receiving coded video data from device which may perform both decoding and encoding operations . In these cases video encoder may include modules similar to intra decoder and predictive decoder .

Processors may comprise multiple programmable processors. As shown in these may include a control or general purpose processor a video processor a graphics processor and a display processor . Control processor may be capable of controlling video processor graphics processor and or display processor . In one aspect processors may include other forms of multi media processors.

Video processor may be utilized during video encoding and or decoding operations and may implement various coding algorithms. For example video processor may implement in some cases H.261 H.263 Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 MPEG2 and or MPEG 4 video coding standards as well as the H.264 standard and its counterpart ISO IEC MPEG 4 Part 10 i.e. Advanced Video Coding AVC . Video processor may also implement one or more discrete cosine transform DCT or inverse discrete cosine transform IDCT operations when encoding or decoding video data.

Graphics processor may be a dedicated graphics rendering device utilized to render manipulate and display computerized graphics. Graphics processor may implement various complex graphics related algorithms. For example the complex algorithms may correspond to representations of two dimensional or three dimensional computerized graphics. Graphics processor may implement a number of so called primitive graphics operations such as forming points lines and triangles or other polygon surfaces to create complex three dimensional images on a display such as display device or . Display processor manages the display of pixel data on the display device. Display device may perform various operations on the pixel data such as rotation and or scaling operations.

In the example of it is assumed that an example frame sequence includes six frames that follow one another consecutively in a temporal sequence. Of course in other cases or examples a frame sequence may include many more than six frames. Each frame may include an array of blocks arranged at different positions. Each of shows one of these six frames for purposes of illustration. Video encoder is capable of coding e.g. intra coding and or inter coding blocks of the video data within each frame and sending the frame to video decoder for decoding and display. Video encoder may use its predictive encoder to inter code one or more blocks of video data within any given frame and may use its intra encoder to intra code one or more blocks of video data within any given frame. Video encoder may use its rate adaptation module to adjust the rate of intra coding i.e. intra refresh rate of blocks or the number of intra coded blocks in each frame.

In each of the temporally consecutive frames includes six intra coded blocks . also depict blocks that are not yet intra coded and also previously intra coded blocks . Any blocks that are not intra coded within a given frame may in some cases be inter coded. However as can be seen in the six frame sequence of if no blocks are intra coded twice because each block may be unique as is the case in this example then all of the blocks will be intra coded once in the six frame sequence. It should be noted that in this example the same number of blocks six are intra coded in each frame but this is not necessary. The blocks that are not intra coded in each frame may be inter coded and may reference one or more frames where a corresponding best matching block is intra coded or inter coded.

Because in only six blocks are intra coded in each frame of the sequence it takes six frames to complete the intra coding of each block at all positions in the entire frame. However there may be interdependency between frames given that other blocks are inter coded meaning that coded bit streams may be susceptible to propagating channel errors which may result in errors within the video frames decoded by video decoder . Increasing the number of intra coded blocks in each transmitted frame may reduce errors and error propagation caused by channel errors. However increasing the number of intra coded blocks in each frame may also increase transmission bandwidth given that more bits may be used for intra coding than for inter coding.

Thus rate adaptation module of video encoder may dynamically determine or adjust the rate of intra coding that is performed by intra encoder . For example rate adaptation module may determine the number of intra coded blocks for each frame in the sequence and thus may increase or decrease this number in an attempt to balance the bandwidth and error reduction parameters. As previously described rate adaptation module may determine the intra refresh rate based in some cases upon packet loss feedback that is received from video decoder . For example if video decoder indicates that there is a significant amount or increase in packet losses or errors rate adaptation module may determine to increase the intra refresh rate to help reduce the possibility of further propagating errors. This will be described in more detail below.

Video encoder may receive feedback from video decoder that indicates an error e.g. loss of data associated with coded video data such as coded video data that may have been previously sent by video encoder to video decoder . Upon receipt of feedback video encoder may determine a rate for intra coding a specified number of segments e.g. blocks of video data for each video unit within a sequence of video units e.g. frames wherein an intra coding of segments of video data within one video unit is independent of a coding of segments of video data within other video units within the sequence . Video encoder may repeat the acts of processing received feedback and determining a rate for intra coding for multiple video units and or sequences of video units.

In some cases feedback that is sent from video decoder indicates a loss of at least a portion of the coded video data by video decoder . Each segment of video data may comprise one or more blocks of video data and each video unit within the sequence of video units may comprise one or more frames or slices of video data. An intra coding of blocks of video data within one frame may be independent of a coding of blocks of video data within other frames within the sequence.

Feedback may in one aspect comprise at least one of a picture loss indication PLI and a general negative acknowledgment GNACK . Feedback may comprise feedback indicating a number of lost packets containing coded video data each lost packet having been previously sent to but not received by video decoder by video encoder . In some cases determining the rate for intra coding may be based at least in part on a target correction time for correcting errors across one or more video units within the sequence as will be described in further detail below.

When feedback includes a GNACK that indicates a number of lost packets determining the rate for intra coding may be based at least in part on the number of lost packets. In some cases video encoder may also receive a report from video decoder indicating a second number of lost packets. For example this report may be one of a series of RTCP Receiver Reports periodically sent by video decoder to video encoder . As will be described in further detail below video encoder may in one aspect calculate a packet error rate based upon at least one of the number of lost packets indicated by the GNACK and the second number of lost packets indicated by the report wherein determining the rate for intra coding is based at least in part on the packet error rate. For example video encoder may calculate a packet error rate based upon which of the GNACK or report indicates a higher volume of lost packets. Determining the rate of intra coding may be further based at least in part on an estimated number of packets contained within each video unit within the sequence of video units.

If error feedback includes a GNACK message the GNACK may identify each lost packet and video encoder may calculate an elapsed time based upon a difference between a current time and a time at which one of the identified lost packets was previously sent to video decoder as is described in further detail below in reference to . Video encoder may determine the rate of intra coding based at least in part on this elapsed time. In some cases each lost packet identified by the GNACK has an associated sequence number. Sequence numbers may be initially assigned to packets in ascending order when the packets are sent from video encoder to video decoder . Video decoder may keep track of which packets it has received and also the corresponding sequence numbers of these packets. Thus the GNACK sent by video decoder may identify the sequence numbers of any lost packets or sequence number ranges for lost packets assuming the sequence numbers are in ascending order.

Upon receipt of a GNACK that identifies lost packets by sequence number video encoder may calculate the elapsed time. Video encoder may determine which lost packet identified by the GNACK has a sequence number that is greater than a sequence number of a first packet of a prior sequence of video units having intra coded segments that was previously sent by video encoder to video decoder . Video encoder may then calculate the elapsed time based upon a difference between the current time as maintained by video encoder and a time at which the determined lost packet was previously sent to video decoder from video encoder as is described in more detail with reference to . Video encoder may make such a calculation of the elapsed time by keeping track of when each packet as identified by sequence number was sent to video decoder .

As described above video encoder may repeat the receiving of feedback and the determining of the rate for intra coding for each video unit in multiple sequences of video units. In some cases video encoder may determine whether to repeat the processing of received feedback and the determining of the rate for intra coding in multiple sequences of video units based upon whether a detected amount of motion across different video units within one sequence of video units exceeds a motion threshold as is described in further detail below. In one aspect the motion threshold is an adjustable parameter that may in some cases be set to a higher threshold value by video encoder when video encoder uses a higher rate of intra coding segments of video data.

In various scenarios video encoder and more particularly rate adaptation module may determine a macro block intra refresh rate based upon received packet loss feedback and may use various criteria or factors to calculate the intra refresh rate. For example as will be described in further detail video encoder may use a target correction time a probability of uncorrected errors a number of errors detected an amount of motion and or a limited duration of user perceived error when calculating an intra refresh rate.

Various parameters are described with reference to and subsequent flow diagrams. Some of these parameters are defined below 

Target Correction Time in seconds maximum amount of time after detection of an error by video encoder such as a packet loss for which the video encoder has to correct the error.

Current Frame Rate in frames per second the current number of frames per second used by video encoder . If the video encoder varies this parameter with changes in the target enc rate target encode rate parameter then the rate adaptation module may estimate this from delivery of frames from the video encoder . In some cases the video encoder may indicate the value of Current Frame Rate to the rate adaptation module .

Max Intra MB  0 100 maximum allowable percentage of intra coded macro blocks. This parameter may be used to limit degradation in video quality since the frame size may be fixed according to data and frame rate.

Intra Repeat integer number of times a full macro block intra refreshed sequence across a sequence of frames is to be performed across the entire image when a packet loss is detected.

Intra MB   No Loss 0 100 percentage of intra coded refreshed macro blocks when there is no detected packet loss.

Intra MB  0 100 the percentage of intra coded refreshed macro blocks that the video encoder is to insert per frame or slice .

Num Intra Frames integer the number of frames that the video encoder has intra coded refreshed macro blocks.

In addition various formulas and calculations that are shown below include Max and Min operations. It is assumed that a Max operation selects the maximum value of two or more possible values within a set and that a Min operation selects the minimum value of two or more possible values within a set.

The method shown in repeatedly checks to determine whether video encoder has received RTCP feedback from video decoder . Upon receipt of such feedback video encoder determines whether the feedback indicates a loss of one or more packets that were transmitted by video encoder to video decoder . For example packet loss feedback sent by video decoder to video encoder may indicate such a loss of one or more packets of coded video data sent by video encoder.

If video encoder has not received any packet loss indication it may use rate adaptation module to determine or set an intra refresh rate or percentage for the macro blocks Intra MB  equal to Intra MB   No Loss which may comprise an adjustable parameter . In some cases video encoder may automatically set or adjust Intra MB   No Loss. In some cases a user may set or adjust this parameter such as to increase or decrease the number of intra coded macro blocks in each frame.

If however video encoder has received a packet loss indication such as packet loss feedback it may determine whether it has received a GNACK or a PLI . A GNACK may indicate one or more specific packets that were lost or that had errors. The Intra refresh routine begins upon receipt of a packet loss indication .

Initially rate adaptation module of video encoder may set Intra MB  equal to MinMax Intra MB  100 Target Correction Time Current Frame Rate . Max Intra MB  and Target Correction Time are each adjustable parameters that may have initial predefined values that are optimized for the particular application or operations that are performed by video encoder . These parameters may also have different values for different applications e.g. video telephony video streaming gaming that are executed by video encoder . Rate adaptation module uses the values of each of these parameters when determining the value of Intra MB  .

In some cases rate adaptation module may implement one or more optional enhancement functions such as are shown in to obtain a modified value of Intra MB  as will be described in more detail below. Rate adaption module requests video encoder to start an intra refresh procedure for a sequence of video frames using Intra MB  as the intra refresh rate for macro blocks in each frame such as by executing intra encoder and predictive encoder . Video encoder also may initialize the value of Num Intra frames to zero. Input is then provided by video encoder that the intra refresh procedure has started. Video encoder also indicates when each video frame boundary has been reached . This may be part of the same indication that is used to set a timestamp and or market bit in RTP. When a video frame boundary has been reached rate adaptation module increments Num Intra Frames which is a parameter that keeps track of the number of video frames that include intra coded macro blocks using the current value of Intra MB  .

At each frame boundary rate adaptation module determines whether Num Intra Frames Ceil 100 Intra MB  . If Num Intra Frames is less than this ceiling or maximum threshold then video encoder checks to determine whether it has received another packet loss indication from video decoder . If not video encoder again checks for a video frame boundary . If however video encoder has received another packet loss indication from video decoder such as packet loss feedback video encoder may determine whether it has received a GNACK or a PLI . In this case video encoder then continues with the Intra refresh routine .

If Num Intra Frames is greater than or equal to this ceiling video encoder has sent a full sequence of video frames to video decoder using the current value of Intra MB  for each frame within this sequence whereby an indicated number of macro blocks in each frame have been intra coded . Rate adaptation module then performs the Repeat Intra routine shown in . In this routine rate adaptation module determines whether the number of times that video encoder has intra refreshed an entire sequence of video frames Intra refreshed is greater than or equal to the value of Intra Repeat which is another adjustable parameter that may have an initial value of two . The value of Intra Repeat may be adjusted to account for possible motion associated with one or more macro blocks within an intra refreshed frame sequence. Such motion may potentially result in errors that can be corrected by repeating the intra refresh sequence for a video sequence one or more times.

Rate adaptation module returns to a no loss detected operation and sets Intra MB  Intra MB   No Loss when the number of times that a complete intra refresh sequence has been performed Intra refreshed is greater than or equal to the value of Intra Repeat. If however Intra refreshed is less than the value of Intra Repeat then rate adaptation module increments the value of Intra refreshed and again performs the Intra refresh routine for a subsequent sequence of video frames as is shown in .

By performing the method shown in video encoder may limit the probability of having uncorrected errors after one intra refresh sequence of intra coded macro blocks within the frame sequence. Rate adaptation module may determine a modified value of Intra MB  based at least in part on an estimate of an RTP packet loss rate during the intra refresh sequence and may make use of the fraction lost parameter that is included within an RTCP Receiver Report that is provided by video decoder indicating the fraction of packets that have been lost by video decoder since the last Receiver Report was sent.

In addition rate adaptation module may be able to increase the value of Intra MB  when it has detected a larger number of errors e.g. packet losses from video decoder . By doing so video encoder may be able to more quickly correct errors that may be seen by the user of video decoder as displayed on display device .

Various parameters are described with reference to and subsequent flow diagrams. Some of these parameters are defined below 

Target Err Pr 0 1 target probability that there will still be an error in the image after a single intra refresh sequence i.e. sequence of video frames . In the example of this parameter is set higher than an expected PER packet error rate times the number of packets per frame.

 0 1 IIR infinite impulse response filter update factor for estimating avg norm ppf average normalized packets per frame . Video encoder may start with a value of 0.1.

PER 0 1 packet error rate which may be set equal to the fraction lost parameter from the most recent RTCP Receiver Report received from video decoder .

avg norm ppf real number average normalized packets per frame which may be normalized to a target encode rate of 50 kbps kilobits per second and 10 fps frames per second .

As is shown in video encoder may calculate or estimate the value of avg norm ppf when calculating a modified value of Intra MB  . Once a packet has been prepared and is ready for transmission by video encoder video encoder may increment inst ppf which is number of packets per frame in the current frame . In some cases inst ppf indicates the number of RTP packets in the frame. inst ppf is further incremented for each packet within the frame until a final packet indicates the end of the frame . At this point video encoder is able to calculate an updated value of avg norm ppf as follows avg norm ppf 1 avg norm ppf inst ppf 50 kbps target encode rate Current Frame Rate 10 fps wherein it may be assumed in this particular example that the target encode rate is normalized with respect to a predefined value of 50 kbps and that the current frame rate is normalized with respect to a predefined value of 10 fps. These predefined values are used in certain example scenarios only and may have various different values in different configurations. The value of inst ppf can then be reset to zero for the next frame . As shown the value of avg norm ppf is based upon the values of inst ppf target encode rate and Current Frame Rate which is the frame rate of the current frame . As shown in this value of avg norm ppf may then be used to calculate a value of est ppf.

In one aspect the value of est ppf estimated packets per frame may be calculated as follows est ppf avg norm ppf target enc rate 50 kbps 10 fps Current Frame Rate where in this example the target encode rate is normalized with respect to a predefined value of 50 kbps and that the current frame rate is normalized with respect to a predefined value of 10 fps . The predefined values may be optimized and may have different values in various different configurations. The target encode rate target enc rate may be provided as one input parameter to the equation and the value of Intra MB  from the base algorithm shown in may be provided as another . In one aspect the target encode rate target enc rate may comprise an adjustable parameter that may be tuned based upon for example the type of application that is being executed by video encoder . In one aspect the target encode rate may be tuned based upon a dynamic rate adaptation algorithm where video encoder adapts its rate to network conditions.

Rate adaptation module of video encoder may set the value of PER packet error rate equal to the value of fraction lost that is contained within an RTCP Receiver Report sent by video decoder which as described above indicates the fraction of packets that have been lost by video decoder since the last Receiver Report was sent . Rate adaptation module may then calculate an updated value of Target Err Pr which is the target probability that there will still be an error in the image after a single intra refresh sequence as follows Target Err Pr MaxTarget Err Pr est ppf PER.

After making this calculation rate adaptation module is capable of calculating an updated or modified value of Intra MB  based upon an initial value of Intra MB  as determined by the method or base algorithm shown in . This initial value of Intra MB  as determined by the method of is indicated as Intra MB  from Base algo such as in where the base algorithm is the one shown in . The updated value of Intra MB  may be calculated as follows MinMax Intra MB  Max 100 log 1 PER est ppf log 1 Target Err pr Intra MB  from Base Algorithm.

This updated value of Intra MB  may then be used by the base algorithm shown in when rate adaptation module intra codes macro blocks within frames of a sequence according to this updated value of Intra MB  .

The method shown in calculates an updated value of Intra MB  to help video encoder limit the probability of having uncorrected errors after one intra refresh sequence of intra coded macro blocks within the frame sequence. As a result the updated or modified value of Intra MB  will typically be an increased value such that intra refreshing of macro blocks occurs more quickly and in fewer frames within a sequence. In obtaining the values and using the calculations shown in it may in some cases be assumed that every slice of a frame where one slice may contain one or more macro blocks contains at least one intra coded macro block.

Using this assumption it may further be assumed that any packet loss during an entire intra refreshed frame sequence have intra coded macro blocks refreshed at a rate of Intra MB  may cause errors in some macro blocks because certain intra coded macro blocks may be lost. These assumptions may comprise a conservative assumption about how quickly to intra refresh a frame sequence. Assuming that the probability of packet errors is distributed throughout the frame sequence all packets throughout the sequence may have an equal probability of causing uncorrected errors. Thus the probability of there being no error after one intra refreshed frame sequence may be equal to 1 PER where P is the number of packets in the entire frame sequence. Therefore the total number of packets in an intra refresh sequence may be limited to less than log 1 Target Err Pr log 1 PER .

The number of packets in an intra refreshed IR frame sequence may then be calculated as frames in IR sequence avg packets per frame during IR sequence where frames in IR sequence 100 Intra MB  .

As a result the estimated average number of packets per frame during an IR sequence may be calculated as est ppf Avg norm ppf target enc rate 50 kbps 10 fps Current Frame Rate .

Combining these results provides the following formula with respect to the modified value of Intra MB  that is determined by the method shown in log 1 Target Err Pr log 1 PER 100 Intra MB  est ppf.

As shown in rate adaptation module is capable of calculating a value of a parameter GNACK PER based on the number of packets indicated in a received GNACK message . The GNACK is sent from video decoder . Video decoder may determine the number of packets within one or more frames have errors e.g. have been lost and may indicate this number within the GNACK. In addition within the GNACK video decoder may identify the specific packets by sequence number that have errors. In one aspect these packet sequence numbers are initially determined by video encoder when the packets are first sent to video decoder via network .

Upon receipt of the GNACK rate adaptation module may compare the value of GNACK PER with the value of fraction lost that was included within the prior RTCP Receiver Report sent from video decoder . If GNACK PER is greater than or equal to fraction lost then rate adaptation module sets the value of PER equal to GNACK PER . If however GNACK PER is less than fraction lost then rate adaptation module sets the value of PER equal to the value of fraction lost from the last Receiver Report .

Thus as can be seen from the method of rate adaptation module selects a value of the packet error rate PER as the greater of GNACK PER and fraction lost. By selecting the greater of these two values rate adaptation module uses a higher value of PER when calculating the modified intra refresh rate Intra MB  within the method of . In this aspect rate adaptation module increases Intra MB  when a higher volume of packet errors are indicated such as by the fraction lost parameter or by a GNACK message.

Rate adaptation module may maintain a mapping of RTP packet sequence numbers to points in time or timestamps at which point the packets were sent from video encoder . For example video encoder may send a first packet having a first sequence number at a first point in time e.g. 100 ms and may send a second packet having a second sequence number at a second point in time e.g. 110 ms . Rate adaptation module may keep a mapping of the sequence numbers to timestamps for each of these two packets as well as any other packets that are sent from video encoder to video decoder .

When video encoder receives a GNACK from video decoder indicating that one or more packets have an error e.g. have been lost video encoder is capable of determining the sequence numbers of each of the packets identified within the GNACK. For example if the GNACK indicates that four different packets have errors video encoder is capable of determining the RTP sequence numbers of each of these four packets. These sequence numbers may be associated with these four packets and included within the GNACK. As described previously these RTP sequence numbers are the sequence numbers originally assigned to the packets when they were first sent by video encoder to video decoder . In one aspect the sequence numbers are assigned by video encoder in ascending order for packets that are sequentially sent to video decoder . 

Upon determination of the sequence numbers of the packets identified by the received GNACK video encoder may the determine the earliest or smallest sequence number for an identified packet RTP SN that is greater than the sequence number of the first packet of the last intra refreshed frame sequence containing intra coded macro blocks RTP SN Last IR Sequence or RTP SN RTP SN Last IR Sequence.

Video encoder uses its mapping information to determine the timestamp for the packet identified within the GNACK having this earliest sequence number of RTP SN. This timestamp corresponds to the point in time at which video encoder originally sent this packet having sequence number RTP SN to video decoder . This timestamp is therefore based upon the clock maintained by video encoder . Video encoder compares this timestamp TS of earliest GNACK RTP SN to the current time current time as indicated by the clock of video encoder and calculates a value of the difference Time elapsed as follows Time elapsed Current Time TS of earliest GNACK RTP SN.

The value of the Time elapsed parameter indicates the period of time that has elapsed since the packet having sequence number RTP SN has been sent by video encoder . Rate adaptation module can then modify the value of Intra MB  used for intra coding macro blocks in subsequent intra refreshed sequences based upon this elapsed time period. Because RTP SN is the earliest or smallest sequence number for an identified packet in the GNACK that is greater than the sequence number of the first packet of the last intra refreshed frame sequence containing intra coded macro blocks rate adaption module attempts to modify the value of Intra MB  to try and correct older errors which occurred longer ago more quickly. Typically rate adaption module will increase the value of Intra MB  in these cases and then use this modified value within the method shown in in the Intra refresh routine .

In one aspect rate adaptation module may calculate the modified value of Intra MB  as follows Set Intra MB  MinMax Intra MB  100 Target Correction Time Time elapsed Current Frame Rate . As with certain of the formulas or calculations described previously rate adaptation module may bound the value of Intra MB  by Max Intra MB  in certain cases. The value of Max Intra MB  may be configured or adjusted by video encoder or by a user based upon the type of application executed by or environment provided by video encoder . In the case above rate adaptation module also may determine the modified value of Intra MB  based at least in part upon a difference between Target Correction Time and Time elapsed. The Target Correction Time parameter as described previously indicates the maximum amount of time after detection of an error by video encoder such as a packet loss for which the video encoder has to correct the error. In this case this maximum correction time becomes a targeted maximum amount of time that a receiver sees a propagation of the error. The value of Target Correction Time may be configured or changed for purposed of optimization.

In some aspects video encoder may implement another enhancement for determining a modified value of Intra MB  that may be used within the Intra refresh routine shown in . In these aspects rate adaptation module may attempt to measure an amount of motion over a past video frame sequence during which Intra MB  was used upon detection of one or more packet errors. As described previously in reference to rate adaptation module may potentially repeat an intra refresh sequence for a frame sequence one or more times according to the value of an adjustable parameter Intra repeat. The value of this parameter may be adjusted based upon detected motion which may be a function of motion vectors over the frames within a frame sequence.

Rate adaptation module may compare the amount of detected motion to a motion threshold value which may comprise a value that is configured or adjusted by a user or by video encoder . For example if a higher value of Intra MB  is being currently used video encoder may use a higher threshold value given that intra refreshing is occurring at a higher rate. The threshold may apply to motion statistics for an overall frame or sequence but may also apply to motion for specific macro blocks as well.

If the amount of detected motion is less than this threshold then rate adaptation module may modify the value of Intra MB  to be set equal to the no loss value as used in according to Intra MB  Intra MB   No Loss.

However if the amount of motion exceeds this threshold rate adaptation module may repeat the intra refresh procedure of an entire video frame sequence and or may increase the value of Intra repeat such that an additional refresh can be performed. The repeating of the intra refresh sequence may help correct any errors that may be caused by excessive motion within one or more frames.

However there may be certain disadvantages to sending too many PLI messages for example to video encoder over time. For example video decoder may send a first PLI to video encoder which may trigger rate adaptation module of video encoder to begin an intra refresh sequence or to increase the rate of intra encoding macro blocks within a frame sequence by increasing the value of Intra MB  . If the video decoder shortly thereafter sends another PLI to video encoder before receiving any of the newly refreshed macro blocks video encoder may again but potentially unnecessarily increase the value of Intra MB  assuming that there are new or additional errors perceived by video decoder . In these types of scenarios PLI messages from video decoder may cross paths with intra refreshed macro blocks that are sent by video encoder to correct previously indicated errors. Thus in some cases it may be more beneficial for video decoder to perform certain checks before sending repeated PLI messages to video encoder over a short period of time.

According to the method of video decoder may wait for decoder output from intra decoder and or predictive decoder . Video decoder may then determine whether any decoding errors were detected by intra decoder and or predictive decoder . In some cases video decoder may detect certain errors that are not detected by the RTP layer such as through analysis of the bit stream of the coded video data. If a decoding error is detected such as an error in one of the received coded packets or even the loss of one or more packets video decoder may determine the current time current time according to its clock.

Video decoder may also determine or lookup a value for RTT which is the value of the round trip travel time for data communication between video decoder and video encoder . In some cases the value of RTT may be initially set or configured within video decoder as a default value. Video decoder however is capable of dynamically adjusting or updating the value of RTT over time based upon real time calculations for data communication between video decoder and video encoder . For example video decoder may be able to use information contained within one or more RTCP Receiver and or Sender Reports in order to measure or estimate the value of RTT. In one aspect video decoder may measure or estimate the value of RTT based upon at least one pair of messages that are exchanged between the video decoder and video encoder .

In the example of video decoder may check to determine whether the following condition is satisfied current time RTT Time Last Sent PLI where is Time Last Sent PLI equal to the time according to the clock of video decoder that video decoder last sent a PLI to video encoder . If the current time is in fact greater than the RTT plus Time Last Sent PLI then video decoder may send another PLI message to video encoder and also set the value of Time Last Sent PLI to the current time according to the clock of video decoder .

If however the current time is less than or equal to RTT plus Time Last Sent PLI then video decoder will suppress sending another PLI message to video encoder . In these scenarios video decoder determines that it has previously sent a PLI within one round trip travel time and does not need to send another PLI. Video decoder assumes in these scenarios that video encoder will begin a new intra refresh sequence or may even adjust the value of Intra MB  in response to receiving a prior PLI sent by video decoder and that video decoder will at the very earliest begin receiving packets and macro blocks within this refreshed sequence within one round trip travel time after having sent the prior PLI. Thus if video decoder identifies any errors within this one round trip travel time window it assumes that such errors may be corrected by the intra refresh sequence that is initiated by video encoder upon receipt of the prior PLI and that it does not need to send another PLI within this time window. Video decoder may continue to perform the method shown in for all coded packets received from video encoder .

Thus as is shown in video decoder may wait for decoding output and determine whether processing has reached a frame boundary or whether a new frame has been detected . If so video decoder may reset the value of a variable called Number of packets lost to zero. As described below video decoder uses the value of this variable in determining whether to send a GNACK or a PLI upon detection of packet errors. When a new frame has been detected video decoder may reset the value of this variable to zero.

Video decoder may identify that a particular packet sent by video encoder has been lost and may then increment the Number of packets lost variable . Video decoder may then compare the value of Number of packets lost to a packet loss threshold value. This threshold value may comprise an adjustable parameter that may be configured or tuned by a user or by video decoder . In some instances the value of this threshold value may depend on the type of device e.g. type of device for video decoder and or video encoder and or the type of application that is executed e.g. video telephony application game application .

In one aspect video decoder may determine whether the following condition is satisfied Number of packets lost  Packet Loss Threshold avg ppf where avg ppf is equal to the average number of packets per frame received by video decoder . Video decoder is capable of estimating the value of avg ppf by continuously determining the number of packets in each frame received by video encoder . If there have been a high number of packets lost since last sending a PLI such that the number of packets lost exceeds the threshold value which may as shown above also be based on avg ppf video decoder may send another PLI message to video encoder to initiate a full intra refresh sequence . Video decoder may also reset the value of Number of packets lost to zero. In one aspect prior to sending the PLI video decoder may also perform the method shown in to determine whether a prior PLI has already been sent within one round trip time window and may refrain from sending another PLI when such is the case as was previously described.

If however video decoder determines that the number of packets lost since transmission of the last PLI does not exceed the threshold video decoder may send a GNACK rather than a PLI to video encoder . The GNACK may identify specific packets that have errors or that were lost . Video encoder may then in some cases use the sequence numbers associated with the packets identified in the GNACK to perform an enhanced method of updating the intra refresh rate such as the method shown in .

In view of the description above and the methods shown in a video decoder such as video decoder may in one aspect detect at least one error associated with coded video data sent from a video encoder such as video encoder . Video decoder may determine a round trip travel time for data communication between video decoder and video encoder determine a last sent time at which video decoder last sent video encoder a feedback message indicating a previous error that was detected by video decoder and compare a current time to a sum of the last sent time and the round trip travel time. Based upon the comparing video decoder may determine whether to send video encoder a second feedback message indicating the at least one error detected by video decoder .

In some cases video decoder may send the second feedback message if the current time exceeds the sum of the last sent time and the round trip travel time and may set the last sent time equal to the current time. Determining the round trip travel time may include measuring or estimating the round trip travel time based upon at least one message that is exchanged between video decoder and video encoder . In some cases video decoder may receive the coded video data from video encoder and may detect the at least one error at least by detecting at least one decoding error upon decoding of the coded video data by the video decoder.

In one aspect video decoder may detect the at least one error at least by detecting a packet loss. Upon detecting the packet loss video decoder may increment a count of lost packets compare the count of lost packets to a threshold and send the second feedback message to video encoder if the count of lost packets exceeds the threshold and if the current time exceeds the sum of the last sent time and the round trip travel time. If the count of lost packets does not exceed the threshold video decoder may send another type of feedback message indicating the packet loss to video encoder .

In some cases upon sending the second feedback message to video encoder video decoder may set the count of lost packets equal to zero. The threshold may be based at least in part upon a packet loss threshold and an average number of packets per frame.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented within one or more of a general purpose microprocessor digital signal processor DSP application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA or other equivalent logic devices. Accordingly the terms processor or controller as used herein may refer to any one or more of the foregoing structures or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein.

The various components illustrated herein may be realized by any suitable combination of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. In the figures various components are depicted as separate units or modules. However all or several of the various components described with reference to these figures may be integrated into combined units or modules within common hardware and or software. Accordingly the representation of features as components units or modules is intended to highlight particular functional features for ease of illustration and does not necessarily require realization of such features by separate hardware or software components. In some cases various units may be implemented as programmable processes performed by one or more processors.

Any features described herein as modules devices or components may be implemented together in an integrated logic device or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. In various aspects such components may be formed at least in part as one or more integrated circuit devices which may be referred to collectively as an integrated circuit device such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset. Such circuitry may be provided in a single integrated circuit chip device or in multiple interoperable integrated circuit chip devices and may be used in any of a variety of image display audio or other multi media applications and devices. In some aspects for example such components may form part of a mobile device such as a wireless communication device handset.

If implemented in software the techniques may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising code with instructions that when executed by one or more processors performs one or more of the methods described above. The computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. The computer readable medium may comprise random access memory RAM such as synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded dynamic random access memory eDRAM static random access memory SRAM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media.

The techniques additionally or alternatively may be realized at least in part by a computer readable communication medium that carries or communicates code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed read and or executed by one or more processors. Any connection may be properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Any software that is utilized may be executed by one or more processors such as one or more DSP s general purpose microprocessors ASIC s FPGA s or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry.

Various aspects have been described in this disclosure. These and other aspects are within the scope of the following claims.

