---

title: Adjunct use of instant messenger software to enable communications to or between chatterbots or other software agents
abstract: A method and article of manufacture are provided for communicating confidential information during an electronic chat session. The chat session has a plurality of participants, including human users and associated software controlled agents. The software controlled agents have artificial intelligence. A first human user requests a first software controlled agent associated with the first human user to request information from a second software controlled agent associated with a second human user. The second agent receives authorization to release the requested information. The second agent transmits the requested information, wherein the transmitted information is not revealed to the human users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549074&OS=08549074&RS=08549074
owner: 
number: 08549074
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121128
---
This application is a divisional of copending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 406 146 filed Mar. 18 2009 which in turn is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 151 493 filed Jun. 13 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 519 661 which in turn is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 796 568 filed Feb. 28 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 907 571. The entire disclosure of each of these prior applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 186 139 filed Mar. 1 2000 entitled ADJUNCT USE OF INSTANT MESSENGER SOFTWARE TO ENABLE COMMUNICATIONS TO OR BETWEEN CHATTERBOTS OR OTHER SOFTWARE AGENTS. 

Instant messaging software such as AOL Instant Messenger or ICQ allows real time chat instant messaging or instant chat over the Internet or other network among a predefined group of people a buddy list . It runs in the background on each user s computer and alerts the user if any member of the buddy list comes on line and is available for chat or if any member of the buddy list posts a message. In some ways it is like a telephone party line. With instant chat software a user types in a message to his buddy although speech recognition software can type the message which is then transmitted. The computer screen of each member of the buddy list who is running the software displays a box or window with the name of the person transmitting the message and the message he or she has transmitted. A text to speech synthesizer can speak the message.

There are software chatterbots that are designed to mimic human conversations with their human users. The chatterbot output may be text or synthesized speech. The chatterbot may e.g. Haptek Virtual Friends but need not also output the image or animation of a head speaking the conversation. The input may be text or require speech recognition software.

There are electromechanical devices with embedded circuitry such as the toys Baby Furby and Interactive Barney that mimic conversation and chatter with a human user. Some toys are stand alone. Some will talk after physical stimulus e.g. tickling feeding hugging etc. . Some will vary the conversation in conjunction with software games which the child plays on his computer or with shows she watches on the television. This computer or television interaction currently requires the computer or television to send signals to the toy by a cable or wireless method.

There are also toys which converse with one another. For example Furby toys include devices for wireless infrared communications between them so that Furbies can engage in conversation with other Furbies while their owners watch.

The current art of electronic and electromechanical devices includes a variety of artificial friends and pets that may be wholly virtual software based or include a tangible embodiment and that will engage the user in amusing conversation or will converse with each other for the amusement of the user. All such artificial friends whether or not with a physical embodiment will be referred to as chatterbots. 

The present invention allows a user s chatterbot to participate in instant messaging along with its owner and thereby allows the user s chatterbot to engage in conversations with the user s buddies or their chatterbots. The chatterbots may be artificially intelligent or may mimic human conversation. The chatterbots are software controlled agents each associated with a human user. The chatterbots and their associated human users participate in an electronic chat session. Messages transmitted and received during the electronic chat session are processed in accordance with the present invention. Each message includes the identity of the source e.g. originator of the message. Each source is a participant in the electronic chat session that is either a human user or a software controlled agent associated with the human user.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention when the chatterbot generates a message the present invention brings the instant messaging software in focus the invention will cause the focus of the operating system to attach to the instant messaging software window . The present invention then inputs the text for the message as if it were generated by keystrokes. However the present invention first prefaces the text with characters indicating that the message is generated by the chatterbot. For example if the present invention is embodied as software the user say a boy named Jackie can enter a name for his chatterbot such as Jackie s chatterbot into the software then the present invention would preface the chatterbot message with Jackie s chatterbot says The present invention then activates transmission of the message as if it were any instant message for example by inputting the enter key keystroke . The present invention then returns the focus to whatever the user was doing.

To elaborate the transmitted message clearly indicates that it is the user s chatterbot generating the message for the amusement of everyone on the buddy list. Suppose a person with the user name Jackie is chatting on line with one of his buddies who has a user name Creampuff . In one embodiment when Jackie s chatterbot transmits a message the instant messaging software displays the line Jackie Jackie s chatterbot says . . . where the phrase Jackie s chatterbot says are the first words of a message from Jackie 

If any of the buddies have installed the present invention on their computers the present invention parses the incoming instant message. If the incoming message is from a chatterbot this triggers a response from the chatterbot on the buddies computer. In the above example the incoming message that begins Jackie Jackie s chatterbot says . . . triggers the chatterbot on Creampuff s computer to generate an appropriate response message wait a prespecified time whether a fraction of a second or more than a second and transmit the response message using the instant messaging software with a preface to the message indicating which chatterbot is speaking The instant messaging software now displays the message Creampuff Creampuff s chatterbot says . . . . As the interactions continue the buddies chatterbots are now engaged in conversation for the amusement of the collection of buddies.

A method in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the present invention is now described. A first software controlled agent e.g. a first chatterbot automatically generates a first text message e.g. an instant message . The first software controlled agent is associated with a first human user. Once the first text message is generated a first source identifier for the first text message is automatically generated and attached to the first text message. The first source identifier includes the identities of the first human user and the first software controlled agent. The first source identifier and the first text message are then transmitted to at least one other participant in the chat session such as a second software controlled agent or a second human user.

In the case where a second software controlled agent e.g. a second chatterbot receives the transmitted first source identifier and the first text message the software controlled agent may respond by automatically generating a second text message. Once the second text message is generated a second source identifier for the second text message is automatically generated and attached to the second text message. The second source identifier includes the identities of the second software controlled agent and a second human user associated with the second software controlled agent. The second source identifier and the second text message are then transmitted to at least one other participant in the chat session.

In a first alternative embodiment a chatterbot responds not only to other chatterbots messages but also to the buddies messages.

A method in accordance with the first alternative embodiment of the present invention is now described. A first participant in an electronic chat session e.g. a first human user transmits a first source identifier and a first text message e.g. an instant message . The first source identifier includes the identity of the first participant. A software controlled agent receives the transmitted first source identifier and the first text message. The software controlled agent then responds by automatically generating a second text message. Once the second text message is generated a second source identifier for the second text message is automatically generated and attached to the second text message. The second source identifier includes the identities of the software controlled agent and a second human user associated with the software controlled agent. The second source identifier and the second text message are then transmitted to at least one other participant in the chat session such as a software controlled agent or a human user.

In a second alternative embodiment where a chatterbot on a user s computer includes a text to speech synthesizer the chatterbot not only synthesizes the sounds of speech for its own message for its owner to hear but also the sounds of the messages from the other chatterbots so the user can hear the chatterbots conversation. Standard speech synthesis software allows the generation of distinguishing audible characteristics different voice tonalities to distinguish between the different chatterbots.

In a third alternative embodiment a chatterbot on a user s computer includes animation of a face in conjunction with speech synthesis where the text generates corresponding facial expression of related phonemes so that the image appears to be speaking the present invention generates images of the other buddies chatterbots as well so that the image of each buddy s chatterbot appears to speak the message it transmits to the group. Thus animated images representing one or more software controlled agents may be displayed on a display screen.

In a fourth alternative embodiment a parser in the instant messaging software detects that the message is from a chatterbot and does not display it as text but rather just has the text synthesized into speech. Thus a determination is made as to whether a received message was generated by a software controlled agent or a human user. If it is determined that the message was generated by a software controlled agent the message is presented in an audible format. If it is determined that the message was generated by a human user the message is presented in a text format.

A method of presenting audible messages in accordance with the fourth embodiment is now described. Audible messages are presented e.g. displayed outputted from a speaker to participants in an electronic chat session. The participants are either human users and or software controlled agents associated with the human users. The software controlled agents associated with the human users are capable of mimicking human conversation and have distinguishing audible characteristics e.g. different voice tonalities . A first software controlled agent receives a first message generated by a participant in the chat session. The first software controlled agent is associated with a first human user. It is then determined whether the first message was generated by a second human user or a second software controlled agent associated with the second human user.

If it is determined that the first message was generated by the second software controlled agent the first agent presents the first message to the first human user in an audible format having a first set of distinguishing audible characteristics a first voice associated with the identity of the second software controlled agent the source of the first message . The first software controlled agent then responds to the message by generating a second message and transmitting the second message to at least one other participant in the chat session. The first software controlled agent also presents the second message to the first human user in an audible format having a second set of distinguishing audible characteristics a second voice associated with the identity of the first software controlled agent the source of the second message . Thus human users having associated software controlled agents may listen to a conversation between the software controlled agents.

If it is determined that the first message was generated by the second human user the first message may be presented to the first human user in a text format.

The first and second messages may be text messages that are converted to speech by the first and second software controlled agents. The software controlled agents may also transmit sound files to a sound file player.

In a fifth alternative embodiment with a parser in the instant messaging software hidden messages including instructions for controlling an animated image of a software controlled agent e.g. chatterbot are generated. The hidden messages are not displayed. The hidden messages may include instructions to control movements of the software controlled agent e.g. turn to the left jump up and down change color add purple hair etc. . In this embodiment the chatterbots text messages may be displayed while the animation instructions remain hidden. This will allow deaf users to enjoy the whole show. In this embodiment the user and his friend while chatting over the Internet will see and hear their chatterbots conversing in a similar manner as if they were physically visiting each other and playing with their Furbies.

In a sixth alternative embodiment in which the chatterbots are merely the interface for semi autonomous agents a user instructs his chatterbot agent to request certain information from his buddy s chatterbot agent. The buddy s chatterbot agent gets confirmation that it is all right to release the data. Then the buddy s chatterbot agent sends the data via the instant messaging software or other software. In this embodiment the user can elect that messages between chatterbots is not displayed and that only the chatterbot being addressed will be aware of the requested data. In this way a negotiation between various parties and their attorneys can take place when no two individuals are in the same physical location. An attorney can send confidential information to or request confidential information from a client during the negotiation without having the information revealed to an opposing party.

A method of communicating confidential information in accordance with the sixth alternative embodiment of the present invention is now described. The confidential information is communicated during an electronic chat session that has a plurality of participants. The participants include human users and associated software controlled agents that have artificial intelligence. A first human user requests a first software controlled agent associated with the first human user to request information from a second software controlled agent associated with a second human user step of . The second software controlled agent receives authorization to release the requested information step of . The second software controlled agent transmits the requested information step of . The transmitted information is not revealed to the human users step of .

The present invention processes two types of messages 1 those originated by a chatterbot on the user s computer and 2 those originated by a chatterbot on another person s computer.

Certain terminology is used herein for convenience only and is not to be taken as a limitation on the present invention. In the drawings the same reference letters are employed for designating the same elements throughout the several figures.

The preferred embodiment as shown in is best understood as four modules built around open protocols and API s so that they can communicate with each other either directly by sending messages to each other or indirectly by monitoring the transmissions of other modules. The four modules are an Instant Messaging software module a chatterbot software module a text to speech generator module and a chatterbot messaging software module . The general design function operation coding and construction of Instant Messaging software chatterbot software and text to speech generators are well understood by those knowledgeable in the art. In an alternative embodiment two or more of these modules could be integrated into a single software product which included the modules separate functions. Alternatively the present invention could be embodied as software with various plug ins which when combined perform the functions of the described modules.

Referring again to at the start of the first process the chatterbot software generates a text message . The text message could be generated spontaneously or in response to some stimulus. The stimulus could be a message coming from the user from another person from another person s chatterbot etc. . The stimulus could be another computer event such as a mouseover e.g. when the user moves his mouse over the image of the chatterbot as if the user is stroking tickling or feeding the chatterbot or click event e.g. when the user launches a game or program . The stimulus may come from another program. For example the other program may monitor what websites the user is visiting or what text is being displayed in any particular window e.g. browser window chat box window document .

In this embodiment the message is sent to a text to speech generator to speak the message. Alternative embodiments eliminate the synthesized speech and just post the message to the monitor. Other Alternative embodiments use wave files instead of a text to speech generator. Still other embodiments will incorporate an animated image or avatar to represent the chatterbot. When the message is sent to the text to speech generator or wave file media player it would include instructions for the accompanying animating software. Once the speech is synthesized and any animation displayed this portion of the process stops . In alternative embodiments of animation programs the avatar of the chatterbot may continue to move and be animated.

In this embodiment when the message is sent to the text to speech generator the chatterbot software also checks the system for whether chatterbot messaging software is present and active as determined by query . If the answer to query is no the process stops . If the chatterbot messaging software is present and active query determines whether instant messaging software is present and active. If the answer to query is no then again the process stops . In other words if the instant messaging software and chatterbot messaging software are not both turned on the chatterbot will only chatter at the user and then stop.

If on the other hand the instant messaging software and chatterbot messaging software are turned on the text message which the chatterbot software generated and sent to the text to speech generator is also sent to the chatterbot messaging software .

The chatterbot messaging software now adds identifiers to the original text message. The chatterbot messaging software retrieves the screen name that the user is currently employing in the instant messaging session . Suppose that is CreamCake. The chatterbot messaging software takes the screen name turns it into a possessive by adding apostrophe s i.e. s adds the word Chatterbot and a colon and then the rest of the original chatterbot text message . For example if the user s screen name is CreamCake the new text message will begin CreamCake s Chatterbot This will be followed by the original text message. The new text message is sent to the instant messaging software as if it had originated from the user. In other words if the chatterbot generates a text message like You are very cute. The new text message coming out of the chatterbot messaging software is CreamCake s Chatterbot You are very cute. 

The instant messaging software processes this new text message by displaying it on the monitor of the user s computer in the instant messaging software window as if the new text message were sent by the instant messaging software. The instant messaging software then sends the new text message over the network on which the instant messaging software is deployed. In this embodiment the instant messaging software accomplishes this by sending the new text message to a server which re broadcasts the message to all the members of the user s buddy list. In an alternative embodiment the instant messaging software may not employ a central server but may broadcast directly to all members of the buddy list. After the new message is sent the process stops .

In an alternative embodiment the user elects which of his buddies will receive the chatterbot s messages or the user elects that only buddies who have used the instant messaging software in the last several minutes will receive the chatterbot s messages.

In an alternative embodiment the chatterbot software designates some messages or types of messages only for the user and does not pass those on to the chatterbot messaging software.

Referring now to at the start of the second process the instant messaging server sends a text message to the user which is received by the instant messaging software on the user s computer. In an alternative embodiment the instant messaging software does not use a central server but rather a one to many broadcasting mode so that another person s computer broadcasts the text message which is received by this user s instant messaging software.

The instant messaging software displays the message in the instant messaging window on the user s monitor and then that display process stops .

In this embodiment when the message is sent to the monitor generator the instant messaging software also checks the system for whether chatterbot messaging software is present and active . If the chatterbot messaging software is not both present and active the process stops . If the chatterbot messaging software is present and active the software checks the system for whether chatterbot software is present and active . If the chatterbot software is not both present and active then the process stops . In other words if the chatterbot software and chatterbot messaging software are not both turned on the remote chatterbot will only have its chatter displayed on the monitor and then stop.

If on the other hand the chatterbot software and chatterbot messaging software are turned on the text message which the instant messaging software received and displayed on the monitor is also sent to the chatterbot messaging software .

The chatterbot messaging software now checks for various identifiers in the received text message. The text message always begins with the screen name of the person sending the message. The chatterbot messaging software parses the text message for the sender s screen name the next two words and the rest of the message .

Referring again to the chatterbot messaging software checks whether the word after the sender s screen name is the same but with apostrophe s at the end . If the answer is no the process stops . In the example with JoJo the process stops.

If the answer is yes the chatterbot messaging software checks whether the next word is Chatterbot . If the answer is no the process stops . In the example with JackieK the process stops.

If the answer is yes the chatterbot messaging software sends the rest of the message to the chatterbot software . In the MightyMike example the chatterbot messaging software sends the message Hey what s up to the chatterbot software.

The chatterbot software processes the rest of the message . Processes include generating a text message in reply or making animated movements with no text reply generating a text message with animated movements making other sounds or doing nothing etc. The rules and randomizations are indigenous to the particular chatterbot.

The rest of the message is then sent to the text to speech generator where it is spoken. In this embodiment the message is spoken with a different voice so that the user knows that the message is from a remote chatterbot rather than his own. In the MightyMike example the chatterbot would speak Hey what s up with a different voice. The process then stops .

In an alternative embodiment as shown in the chatterbot will respond to any message not just a message generated by another chatterbot. In this embodiment if the answer to either query or is no the next two words and the REST OF THE MESSAGE are sent to the Chatterbot Software . In other words all of the message s text except the USER S SCREEN NAME is sent to the Chatterbot Software . The process text is then sent by the Chatterbot Messaging Software . Steps and are different steps within the Chatterbot Software . After the text is processed the process then stops .

In a preferred embodiment the chatterbot will process all messages it receives from the Chatterbot Messaging Software in the same manner. In an alternative embodiment the chatterbot will respond to all messages but will be respond differently depending upon whether the message came from a chatterbot or a person. For example the chatterbot might be programmed to respond You are an idiot to another chatterbot but to a person it might say I beg your pardon but you are an idiot. 

In an alternative embodiment only the user s messages are spoken. In an alternative embodiment no voices are spoken but only displayed on the monitor.

In an alternative embodiment the chatterbot software stores word phrases to speak as sound files. The sound files may be in various formats such as wave MP3 etc. In this embodiment the chatterbot still sends text files to the chatterbot instant messaging software but it sends sound files to a sound file player rather than text to a text to speech generator. Also in this embodiment when the chatterbot messaging software sends a text file to the chatterbot software the chatterbot software will use a look up table to know which sound file is related to the text message. The user s chatterbot then sends the sound file to the user s sound player.

In an alternative embodiment the text to speech generator incorporates or communicates with an animation module. The animation module causes an image of the chatterbot to appear to speak the words while their sound is being generated. In an alternative embodiment the text to speech generator incorporates or communicates with an animation module that causes and image of the chatterbot to perform other movements or actions.

In an alternative embodiment the identifier appended to the chatterbots text message would differ. For example instead of JoJo s Chatterbot the identifier is JoJo s Chatterbot says . The present invention is not limited to the particular phrases text or symbols used in the identifier. In an alternative embodiment the identifier contains additional code that instructs the chatterbot software how to animate an image of the chatterbot. In some embodiments this code will not be displayed on any person s computer but will be parsed by the software and transmitted to the chatterbot software for processing.

Although the present invention has been described as if it resides on an individual computers the software or its modules or parts thereof may be distributed among devices on the network and among other devices.

The present invention is intended to include for example embodiments in which a Furby toy contains portions of the chatterbot software. For example a Furby toy contains a message generator that speaks the message and transmits a version of the message to other Furbies via an infrared transmitter on its forehead. The Furby s forehead also contains an infrared receiver to receive messages from other Furbies. In an alternative embodiment of this invention a Furby or similar device contains part of the chatterbot software . The Furby or similar device generates and speaks a message . The Furby or similar device also broadcasts an infrared transmission of a version of or key to the message. The portion of the chatterbot software in the user s computer receives the broadcast via an infrared receiver and accomplishes along with the other software in the user s computer the remainder of steps of . To do this step is augmented by a lookup table that translates the infrared transmission into a text version of the message which the Furby or similar device spoke.

In this embodiment the steps of remain the same. However step is augmented by a lookup device that translates the rest of the message into a version or key which it transmits via an infrared transmitter to the nearby Furby or similar device. The Furby or similar device then processes that transmission and generates a new message or not depending on its programmed code.

The embodiments described above include steps and of in the chatterbot software . In an alternative embodiment these steps are included in the chatterbot messaging software in an altered form. In this alternative embodiment the chatterbot messaging software when active is continuously monitoring the chatterbot software. Step is altered to read Has the chatterbot generated a text message and step is altered to read retrieve the text message generated by the chatterbot software. The rest of the steps are the same.

Similarly the embodiments described above include steps and of in the instant messaging software . In an alternative embodiment these steps are included in the chatterbot messaging software in an altered form. In this alternative embodiment the chatterbot messaging software when active is continuously monitoring the instant messaging software. Step is altered to read Has the instant messaging software received a message and step is altered to read retrieve the text message received by the instant messaging software. The rest of the steps are the same.

The present invention may be implemented with any combination of hardware and software. The present invention can be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer useable media. The media has embodied therein for instance computer readable program code means for providing and facilitating the mechanisms of the present invention. The article of manufacture can be included as part of a computer system or sold separately.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

