---

title: Pari-mutuel wagering apparatus and method
abstract: A handheld device in communication with a tote board of at a pari-mutuel wagering event receives data concerning the competitive entries and the odds associated with each entry. For each event, a total bet is determined and a subset of entries picked for which the total bet is to be allocated among. A computation is made as to the allocation based on the current odds of each entry and the desired rate of return on the total bet if any of the selected entries wins. The bet and entry data is then uploaded to the tote board at which it is accepted and entered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08460079&OS=08460079&RS=08460079
owner: 
number: 08460079
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120319
---
The present application is a continuation in part of entitled to the benefit of and claims priority from the commonly owned United States application for patent having at least one inventor in common herewith entitled Pari mutuel Wagering System application Ser. No. 11 817 161 filed Aug. 27 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 137 175 issued Mar. 20 2012 which is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of Patent Cooperation Treaty Application No. PCT US2006 007089 filed Feb. 27 2006 which is a non provisional of United States Application for Provisional Patent Application No. 60 656 214 filed Feb. 25 2005 the specification of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In many games in which contestants compete against each other a player observes an initial state of the game and based upon the rules of the game and possible other subjective and objective criteria makes a determination as to what the player believes will be at least in part the final state of the game which will indicate a winner or a finishing order of its contestants. For example the player first analyzes various subjective and objective criteria in a race among various competing entries selects what the player believes will be the overall winner or the final order of some or all of the entries.

In particular in horse racing a bettor may place bets on one or more horses in any race wherein each horse has betting odds associated therewith. The odds determine the amount of money to be returned to the bettor per unit amount bet should such horse win the race. Typically the bettor refers to a racing sheet to obtain subjective and objective information about each horse in the race to assist in the selection of bets. Selection of bets in any one race may include bets on each of long and short odds to minimize risk and maximize gain.

In the prior co pending application referenced above there are disclosed algorithms which the bettor may utilize to allocate within a maximum bet total such portions of that total among several entries in a single race so that is any one of the entries win a predetermined rate of return will be realized. Reference is made therein that the algorithms may be embedded in a calculating device. The present disclosure is directed to a specific implementation of such a device which may be used by a bettor.

The present invention is directed to a pari mutuel wagering method and apparatus that enables a bettor to determine specific amounts to bet on each of several entries in a race in accordance with specific predetermined criteria such as total amount to be bet and consistency of profit should any of the selected entries win. In accordance with the present invention a handheld device in communication with a tote board of at a pari mutuel wagering event receives data concerning the competitive entries and the odds associated with each entry. For each event a total bet is determined and a subset of entries picked for which the total bet is to be allocated among. A computation is made as to the allocation based on the current odds of each entry and the desired rate of return on the total bet if any of the selected entries wins. The bet and entry data is then uploaded to the tote board at which it is accepted and entered.

Further advantages and features of the present wagering method include the capability of adding and or subtracting or otherwise changing the identities of the entries to be bet upon and or the odds of each entry winning to arrive at the desired profit margin. Additionally the present wagering method is adapted to indicate that particular bet or set of bets should not be made if a predetermined minimum profit cannot be realized with the prospective bet or set of bets.

These and other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from a study of the following Description of the Exemplary Preferred Embodiments when read in conjunction with the attached Drawing and appended Claims.

Referring now to there is shown an exemplary system in which a handheld user device which is constructed according to the herein after described principles of the present invention may communicate with a tote board . The handheld device may preferably be a dedicated device designed for portability and use anywhere capability but as described below a dedicated user device such as handheld device is not necessary to practice the methods of present invention.

Exemplarily the communication between the handheld device and the tote board may be established over any known wireless protocol. When the handheld device is in direct communication with the tote board the exemplary scenario is that the user of the handheld device is present at an establishment such as a track or off site betting location at which the tote board is located.

It is also contemplated that the handheld device may be used remotely from any such establishment and be in communication not only with the tote board but also with one or more additional tote boards . In this scenario the handheld device and the additional tote boards are in network communication over a network exemplarily the internet. Furthermore the handheld device may also be in either wireless or network communication with the tote board simultaneously with the additional tote boards . The description herein below as it relates to the tote board is assumed to also apply equally to the additional tote boards .

With further reference to the handheld device includes a microprocessor firmware user interface controller a graphic display a user keypad and a communications controller . The display may be a conventional LCD screen providing a graphic user interface with user input data being entered at the user keypad with conventional keys or membranes. Alternatively the display may also be touch enabled LCD screen such that the user keypad appears as a graphic in the display . In either event the user interface controller in communication with the processor provides the necessary drivers for either type of user interface.

In addition to a conventional operating system the firmware may include a software application APP the code of which when executed implements a process described in further detail herein below. As described herein the APP is an application registered with the operating system of the handheld device . It is to be understood that the APP may also exist as a standalone application which may also be installed on any type of user device as described in the priority application referenced above. Accordingly the present invention is not to be limited in scope to a dedicated special purpose user device such as the handheld device but may be any device which executes application code to implement a process within the scope of the present invention.

The communications controller negotiates known protocols for establishing wireless communications with the network or protocols for direct wireless communication with the tote board . Irrespective of the whether the tote board is to be accessed directly through wireless communications or through the network published public and proprietary protocols relating to data formats credentials and the like are negotiated to provide proprietary data to the handheld device upon bidirectional communications being established therewith. The communications controller when connected to a tote board remains in communication therewith such that any change of data at the tote board is downloaded to the user device without any user intervention.

Referring now to there is shown a flowchart illustrative of an exemplary embodiment of an improved method implemented by the APP when executed in the handheld device . Once the APP is installed in the in the handheld device it may be launched as indicated at by user input conventionally enabled through the above described user interface.

As indicated at upon the APP being launched the APP initiates the process of negotiating the installed communications protocols through the communications controller to connect with any active tote board which is found locally or in the network . Upon any such connection being established the event data published by each active tote board is downloaded to the handheld device . The data published by each active tote board is streamed into the handheld device via a set of standardized requests called application programming interfaces API that have been defined for the APP. The APP and the tote board communicate to each other without any need for user knowledge or intervention as the API of the underlying operating system performs basic functions such as accessing the file system and pertinent data that is entered from the database of the tote board into the handheld device . Such data from each tote board includes a listing of one or more events a listing of each competitive entry in each event and other data as pertinent to each listing such as odds for each competitive entry. Such data may also include other information as may be typically provided by tote boards.

Once the event data from all of the active tote boards that have been found is downloaded to the handheld device a decision is made indicated at whether data form one or multiple boards has been downloaded. If the decision is YES the list of the active tote boards and the event s presently available for wagering at each tote board is presented through the user interface. One or more of the tote boards may then be selected through the user interface. Otherwise if the decision is NO since only one tote board has been found then the selection of this tote board is made by default.

If more than one tote board is selected each of the following described steps of this flowchart may be performed as a parallel but not in lock step process with respect to each selected tote board . For example the user interface may provided for switching between the displayed information for each active tote board or may present the data for multiple tote boards simultaneously on the display .

With further reference to the selection of any tote board begins a process which occurs at a time t respective to the selected tote board . Once the tote board has been selected whether through the user interface or by default a total monetary amount of a wager or bet which is selected to be put at risk for the active event is entered through the user interface as indicated at . Next as indicated at a subset of all the competing entries in the selected event over which subset the total bet is to be allocated is selected. Exemplarily in an event with N total entries the subset is any number x wherein 1

Upon the total bet B on the event having been entered and the entries for such event having been selected a portion of the total amount of the bet B to be allocated to or placed on the xentry in the event is computed as indicated at . This computation is made in accordance with the formula

Continuing with the procedures being described at the percent profit P to be realized in the event the xentry with odds Oin the contest wins is computed in accordance with the formula

Next as indicated at each Pis satisfies a condition such as being compared to a predetermined criterion which may either be selectively entered through the user interface embedded in the firmware of the APP or both. An example of a selectively entered criterion may be a minimum percent profit Pto be realized from placing the total amount of the bet B in the currently selected event. In some situations this predetermined profit P may be the same irrespective of which of the xentry in the contest is the ultimate winner then effectively P P. Using this example the determination may then be made whether the profit Pcompares favorably e.g. greater than or unfavorably e.g. less than the predetermined profit P.

Continuing with this example if the comparison is unfavorable the NO path is taken and the bet and entry data inputted through the user interface may be cleared by default or through intervention at the user interface as indicated at and the calculation of the portion of the amount to be wagered on each entry halted. If the data is to be cleared through intervention at the user interface then it may be preferable that no further action be taken in the process until such intervention occurs. In either event process reiteratively resumes allowing re entry of either the total bet at or the selection of entries at or both.

Otherwise if the comparison is favorable in this example the YES path is taken and a determination is made whether the odds O on any of the selected entries have changed as indicated . In pari mutuel wagering the odds are continuously changing in accordance with the bets being placed on each and these odds are continuously being streamed from the active tote board with which the handheld device is in communication. If the odds have changed since the last computation of Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 the YES path is taken to reiterate the calculation of the Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 at and the decision at as above described.

During this reiteration the decision taken at may now be unfavorable with respect to the predetermined profit as described above resulting in the bet and entry data being cleared at as described above. Moreover additional criteria may be evaluated at as described in the priority application above referenced.

If there has not been any change of odds since the last computation of Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 the NO path is taken and several actions may be taken through the user interface of the handheld device as follows. The entries of the selected event may be changed as indicated at or the total bet may be changed as indicated at . If the user interface detects that a change of entries has been made at process reiterates back to the selection of entries at whereat the odds for the new entries are used for the computation of Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 at . Similarly if the user interface detects that a change of the total bet has been made process reiterates back to the entry of the total bet at whereat the computation of Eq. 1 and Eq. 2 at is reiterated with or without any further change in the entries.

All of the above described processes decisions and reiterations as such may occur between the initial entry of the total bet at and the user interface not detecting any change of entries at or change of bet at occurs within a continuous timeline indicated by tin . Furthermore the APP is continuously monitoring for any transmission through the API for the active tote board for which the current process is running to determine if a cutoff time or a countdown to such cutoff time t after which wagering is closed prior to the start of the event at time t has been sent to the handheld device as indicated at . As long as the decision at remains negative at any time during the time tin which there has not been any change of odds entries or total bets resulting in reiterations of the forgoing process the APP may detect that a decision to place the current bet on the current entries has been positively made through the user interface as indicated at .

Alternatively as the decision at remains negative the user of the handheld device may as indicated by the NO path at allow the current process for the active tote board to reiterate monitoring for changes at the odds data at or user interface changes to the entries at or the bet at . Otherwise the user may as indicated by the YES path at desire to run the process on a different selected event at another active tote board . In the latter case the process for each tote board runs simultaneously with the user interface allowing switching between them.

If the App detects a positive decision at to place the current bet on the selected entries the APP through the API and communications controller transmits the bet and entry data to the active tote board as indicated at . The active tote board may respond as indicated at with confirmation that the data has been received accepted and the bets on each entry entered.

After such confirmation has been received the user interface may detect as indicated at that as selection to another event for the same or another tote board being made through the user interface thus taking the YES path to begin a new process at . Otherwise the NO path may be taken and the APP exited as indicated at at user discretion.

Returning to the decision at if the time t is positively indicated as a notice of an imminent cutoff time the process flow warns through the user interface that the current bets on the selected entries must be placed pausing the process and waiting for an indication through the user interface of the decision to be made at . If the bet is to be place the bet is placed as described above at . Otherwise if the bet is not to be placed the process may return to a selection to be made at of other events at the same or other tote boards.

There has been described hereinabove novel apparatus and method for pari mutuel wagering. Those skilled in the art may now make numerous uses of and departures from the hereinabove described embodiments without departing from the inventive principles disclosed herein. Accordingly the present invention is to be defined solely by the lawfully permissible scope of the appended Claims.

