---

title: Process for embedded intelligence
abstract: A system for executing an embedded intelligence process comprises an interface and a processor. The interface is for receiving an input object for a business process associated with an embedded intelligence applet. The processor is for searching a database for a set of objects. The set of objects is based at least in part on the input object. The processor is for determining display information for the embedded intelligence applet based at least in part on the set of objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411850&OS=09411850&RS=09411850
owner: Workday, Inc.
number: 09411850
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
A business manager makes many complex decisions over the course of each day. Enterprise business software has come to be relied upon for assisting a manager with his decision making by presenting him with data relevant to these decisions. For example a manager who is considering giving an employee a raise might want to see data regarding the amount and timing of raises given to employees in the past sorted by business division and employee performance level. Setting up this type of data analysis traditionally requires some level of software programming and is not typically integrated into the decision making process. A manager would have to request the services of technical staff to prepare code for the report and utilizing the report would require switching tasks between report viewing and decision making.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A system for embedded intelligence is disclosed. The system comprises an interface and a processor. The interface is for receiving an input object for a business process associated with an embedded intelligence applet. The processor is to search a database for a set of objects. The set of objects is based at least in part on the input object. The processor is to determine display information for the embedded intelligence applet based at least in part on the set of objects.

A process for embedded intelligence is disclosed. A software application comprises a database a set of business processes and a set of embedded intelligence applets. Each business process modifies or accesses data stored in the database to accomplish a business process e.g. hire an employee modify the salary of an employee give an employee a promotion etc. . Business processes can receive input data e.g. employee name new employee salary new employee title etc. from a business process user. Each embedded intelligence applet prepares a report on data stored within the database to assist a business manager with the decisions made in the business processes. An embedded intelligence applet may include a set of prompts variables that need to be supplied to the embedded intelligence applet in order for it to run. When an embedded intelligence applet is added to a business process the prompts are associated with business process exposed fields. For example an embedded intelligence applet takes as an input an output provided by exposed fields that are available from a business process. These fields comprise available variables from the business process that can be output to provide input values to the embedded intelligence applet.

In some embodiments business process exposed fields comprise data fields made available by the business process for use by embedded intelligence applets. Upon execution of the business process and the embedded intelligence applet data for the embedded intelligence applet prompts is received from the associated business process exposed fields. The embedded intelligence applet retrieves data e.g. from a data storage and prepares a report based on data received from the business process and on the retrieved data. The embedded intelligence applets are made available automatically for the user of the business process so that no switching to another application is necessary in order for the functionality of the embedded intelligence applet to be visible available or interactive for the user. In various embodiments the embedded intelligence applet is automatically triggered is automatically made visible is automatically made to be interactive with the user is automatically launched is automatically updated based on new values of input or updated input or any other appropriate trigger.

Database system administrator comprises a database system administrator administrating database system . In some embodiments database system administrator comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In some embodiments administrating database system comprises preparing configuring or modifying database system as desired by database system users e.g. database system user . In some embodiments database system administrator configures and modifies database system in ways not available to database system user . Database system user comprises a database user accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In various embodiments there are 1 2 4 13 22 115 or any other appropriate number of database system users accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments each database system user only has access to their own data stored on database system and is able to utilize database system as though they are the sole database system user. In some embodiments database system user configures services on database system . In some embodiments the ability of database system user to configure database system is limited compared with that of database system administrator . In some embodiments a database system user e.g. database system user comprises a person accessing database system via a user interface e.g. a web page. In some embodiments a database system user comprises an automated system accessing database system via a machine interface e.g. a public application programming interface API .

In the example shown database management system comprises business process embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet . In some embodiments database management system includes more than one business process. In various embodiments database management system comprises 1 2 4 7 11 14 22 315 1009 3021 or any other appropriate number of business processes. A business process comprises software for executing a business task e.g. hiring an employee modifying the salary of an employee giving an employee a promotion transferring an employee between business divisions or any other appropriate business task. Business processes contain a number of fields to be filled out in the course of executing the business process e.g. employee name new employee salary new employee title new employee business division or any other appropriate business process field. In some embodiments a business process is broken into a set of pages each comprising a subset of the business task and data entry fields. Embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet communicate with business process . Database management system comprises any appropriate number of embedded intelligence applets. Each embedded intelligence applet e.g. embedded intelligence applet embedded intelligence applet communicates with any appropriate number of business processes e.g. business process . In various embodiments database management system comprises 1 3 4 6 12 22 222 515 or any other appropriate number of embedded intelligence applets.

An embedded intelligence applet comprises software for analyzing data and preparing a report embedded with a business process. In some embodiments an embedded intelligence applet is referred to as a worklet. When a database system user e.g. database system user of accesses the database system e.g. database system of and executes a business process e.g. business process embedded intelligence applets communicating with the business process e.g. embedded intelligence applet embedded intelligence applet are shown embedded in the business process. The embedded intelligence applets are designed to provide the database system user with intelligence in order to assist with decisions made during the execution of the business process. For instance a salary modification business process requires the database system user to input the new salary as part of the process thus the user must decide what the new salary ought to be. An embedded intelligence applet embedded with the salary modification process prepares information relevant to that decision e.g. job performance of the employee recent salary modifications of employees in the same division average time between salary modifications and time since the employee s last salary modification or any other appropriate information.

In some embodiments the embedded intelligence applet provides information by receiving the input information associated with the process and looks for related information in the database. For example in the event that a raise process is being used the applet provides salary data for employees with the same job classification e.g. laterally relevant data provides employee salary data e.g. background data or vertically relevant data etc. provides employee data for those with salary similar to the contemplated raise salary e.g. forecasted laterally relevant data or any other appropriate data. In some embodiments related information comprises results from a search on a database e.g. an object database . In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object received as an input object. In some embodiments the search on the database comprises a search based at least in part on an attribute of an object related to the input object.

Embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive data from business process as part of their data analysis and report preparation. For instance when a user enters an employee name into a modify employee salary process embedded intelligence applet and embedded intelligence applet receive the employee name and can execute further data analysis and report preparation based on it e.g. finding the performance records of the employee and presenting them to the database user. In some embodiments database management system comprises a processor configured to receive an input data for a business process e.g. business process receive a stored data e.g. from business data storage for an embedded intelligence applet e.g. embedded intelligence applet or embedded intelligence applet and determine display information for the embedded intelligence applet based at least in part on the input data and the stored data.

In an input object for a business process is received. An input object for a business process is received from a user entering business process data into a business process interface. In some embodiments an input object for a business process is received from a field in a business process interface when the user entering business process data advances to the next field in the business process interface. In some embodiments business process data comprises an input object for a business process. In a database is searched for a set of objects. In some embodiments the set of objects is searched for based on data programmed into the embedded intelligence applet. In some embodiments the set of objects is searched for based at least in part on the input object e.g. the input object received in . In various embodiments the set of objects is searched for based at least in part on the classification of the input object based at least in part on the attributes of the input object based at least in part on a criteria determined from the input object or based at least in part on the input object in any other appropriate way. In some embodiments the set of objects is searched for to determine a set of objects to be compared with the input objects e.g. in a graph a chart a table etc. . In some embodiments the business process and the embedded intelligence applet are associated and the embedded intelligence applet receives business process data from the business process. In some embodiments the processor is configured to search for the set of objects based on the input object as indicated by the embedded intelligence applet. In some embodiments the set of objects is searched for in a business data storage e.g. business data storage of . In embedded intelligence applet display information is determined. In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet display information is determined based at least in part on the set of objects searched for in . In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet display information is determined to compare the set of objects searched for in with the input object. In some embodiments embedded intelligence applet display information is determined to give context to a business process. In various embodiments embedded intelligence applet display information is determined based on processing the set of objects searched for in based on displaying the set of objects searched for in based on displaying an attribute of each of the set of objects searched for in or based on the set of objects searched for in in any other appropriate way. In an embedded intelligence applet display command is received. In some embodiments the business process is configured to display applet information in the event that the embedded intelligence applet display command has been received. In some embodiments an embedded intelligence applet display command is received from a user making an indication to an embedded intelligence applet display button. In some embodiments the embedded intelligence display button makes a visual indication e.g. a flash a change of color rotation etc. in response to embedded intelligence applet display information being determined e.g. in . In embedded intelligence applet display information is provided. In some embodiments providing embedded intelligence applet display information comprises displaying an embedded intelligence applet window. In some embodiments providing embedded intelligence applet display information comprises displaying embedded intelligence applet display information in an embedded intelligence applet window. In business process commands are received and embedded intelligence applet display information is updated as necessary. In various embodiments business process commands comprise next business process page commands business process data business process complete commands or any other appropriate commands. In some embodiments embedded intelligence display information is updated in response to new or modified business process data.

In some embodiments the data available from the database to the embedded intelligent applet comprises data available to the user according the security policy e.g. personal data or data associated with the user data available to the role the user is associated with etc. .

In some embodiments the business process with its associated embedded intelligence applet has the ability to add remove steps in the business process and yet still allow the embedded intelligence applet to trigger where their prompts have been satisfied e.g. the linkage from exposed fields of the business process are output or transferred to the embedded intelligence applet as inputs .

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

