---

title: User centric print usage
abstract: Enabling web management of print usage for a user(s) and/or printer device(s). A central management unit can interact with a plurality of accounts (e.g., prepaid accounts; and/or postpaid accounts), which are associated with users and/or printers—to predict printing activities and regulate printer supplies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873083&OS=08873083&RS=08873083
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08873083
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
Benefit is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 119 a d to Foreign application Ser. No. 1672 CHE 2012 entitled USER CENTRIC PRINT USAGE by Hewlett Packard Development Company L.P. filed on Apr. 28 2012 which is herein incorporated in its entirety by reference for all purposes.

In general many factors contribute to overall costs of print activities. Moreover an ability to reliably estimate related print costs can significantly impact efficiency and profitability for such print activities.

In this regard primary factors that contribute to cost of a print task e.g. at time of bidding can include dimensions of print task cost of printer supplies such as ink toner units and the like. Typically amount of some resources employed for a predetermined print task can be readily estimated because information about them can be accurately determined before such print activity is performed. The dimensions of the print task for example can identify amount of print media that is typically required for such print activity. Hence when generating a bid for the print task one can readily consider cost of the media into account.

To this end estimating a print task based on printed area can be considered a common practice as such media can be easily measured. On the other hand an ability to account for cost of ink remains more challenging. For example cost of ink is typically estimated to be a fixed cost wherein an ability to measure volume of ink employed for a print task remains problematic for various reasons. First because volume of an ink drop remains unclear and second because such volume can quickly change during print activities. Furthermore interfacing with the printing system can also pose difficulties as the interfaces are typically not designed to provide such type of information.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It is evident however that such embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with various aspects presented in this disclosure users can be provided the opportunity to opt out of having information e.g. personal information sensitive information location information etc. collected and or shared with servers devices or applications. Moreover embodiments can anonymize data collected from respective users.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure relates to web enabled management of print usage for a user s such as regulating supplies and costs associated with print activities of end user devices In one aspect a central management unit e.g. as part of a cloud environment can monitor print activity of user and customize a predetermined plan based thereon.

Moreover such printer related resources can be maintained by an off site party and can be accessed and utilized by identified users over a network e.g. Internet WAN . . . . Even though depicts the central management unit as single unit it is understood that such unit can be distributed over various geographic locations. For example the central management unit can include any number of data center machines such as data center machines that store and or retrieve data related to printing activities users. Likewise such data center machines not shown can be employed for storing retrieving data effectuating computational tasks identifying end user machine and or user printing requirement and the like.

In one particular aspect a third party service provider not shown can provide any number of services such as data storage services computational services word processing services presentation services and any other services or applications that are conventionally associated with personal computers and or printing activities. Furthermore employing any number of third party service providers to facilitate the web enabled management of print usage for a user s are well within the realm of the subject innovation. For example disparate third party service providers can be maintained by differing off premise parties and a user can employ e.g. concurrently at different times . . . all or a subset of the third party service providers.

As described in detail with respect to various additional figures below of this disclosure the central management unit can interact with a plurality of accounts associated with a user e.g. employing a prepaid account plan and or a postpaid account plan that is set with the central management unit for example. According to one particular aspect the prepaid account can include in advance payment by the user for employing print services wherein notifications are sent to the user based on amount and or credit that remains in such user account and based on print activity. Likewise and in the postpaid plan the user can replenish the account after a predetermined amount of service e.g. predetermined threshold for number of copies made and or real time monitoring for level of ink and the like. Such an arrangement can further facilitate user experience related to print activities such as improving ink ordering procedures and correlating ink expenses with direct print usage as opposed to associating print costs directly with printer cartridge. It is to be appreciated if the account of a user becomes negative printing activities for such user are inhibited even though ink indeed remains available in printers associated with such user.

In a related aspect credit purchases for such prepaid model can have a time limit e.g. 180 days from the date a credit is added wherein a deletion rule can then be applied to unused items for example. Such prepaid printing plan can enable users to regulate their printing behavior based on purchased amount. Moreover such all or nothing preposition for the payment model can further be customized to enable customers carry a negative balance that is deducted when the customer next adds additional credit.

In a related aspect the central management unit can employ a postpaid account plan for printing needs of a user wherein the client can be charged during a predetermined period and hence does not feature any limitations on volume of service used. Such can be deemed a contrast to the prepaid plan described above which requested customers to add credit to their accounts prior to usage wherein their usage is typically limited to the amount being added to the account. 

All such user account plans can be implemented via the payment gateway component which can represent an e commerce application service provider service that authorizes payments for ink requirements of a user and or end user device. For example the payment gateway component can be deemed equivalent to a physical point of sale terminal that is located in brick and mortar retail outlets. Such payment gateway component can protect credit card details by encrypting sensitive information e.g. as payment data to ensure that information is passed securely between the customer and the central management unit and also between the central management unit and the payment processor.

For example a user can place an order for a pre paid account or alternatively submit payment for a post paid account by submitting a submit order or an equivalent button or submitting credit card details via an automatic phone answering service. In one aspect the customer s web browser encrypts information to be sent between the browser and the central management unit e.g. via Secure Socket Layer SSL encryption. Subsequently the payment gateway component can employ another SSL encrypted connection for interaction with a payment server which can be associated with a card association center and or issuing bank The credit association center or issuing bank can receive an authorization request and sends a response back to the payment server or payment processor associated therewith such as with a response code which determines declining or accepting the payment. If accepted the acquiring bank can deposit approved funds in an bank nominated by the central management unit.

In this regard additional data that can further facilitate operation of the prediction component can be supplied by data banks. Such data can include data mined by third parties wherein various models such as queuing models Markov sources probabilistic functions of Markov chains and the like can subsequently perform probabilistic predictions of ink usage reordering is based upon the collected history. For example if prior contacts exist with a customer user the subject innovation can model their specific behavior. Otherwise a demographic model that represents the behavior modeled as an average of previous ink cartridge orders from similar individuals can be employed. In one aspect the actual decision for which model to employ for user centric print activity can initially be based on a weighted average of the specific and demographic information and subsequently modified when sufficient data is accumulated on the specific behavior to obtain its accurate model.

Moreover different pieces of information such as collected history for ink orders feasibility cost criteria for a contact center probabilistic stochastic models operating instructions and the like can also be maintained in the data bank . Such data bank can further include storage systems having a complex model based database structure wherein an item a sub item a property and a relationship can be defined to allow representation of information within a data storage system for example. The data bank can further employ a set of basic building blocks for creating and managing rich persisted objects and links between objects wherein an item can be defined as the smallest unit of consistency within the data storage system which can be independently secured serialized synchronized copied backup restored for example.

As explained earlier activities associated with print behaviors can be employed as a performance measure for a model that predicts and or approximate ink and cartridge requirements based on mathematical analysis and or stochastic procedures by the prediction component .

By analyzing of the relevant queuing model printer cartridge reordering scenarios can be identified and impact of proposed changes assessed. For example different time periods for ordering ink supplies by various end user printing devices and or users can be assigned various likelihood percentages. Specifically training can occur through an n order Markov model where n is an integer to probabilistically predict likelihood of ink depletion based on a short sequence of accumulated episodes of prior ink re ordering behavior for example. It is to be appreciated that any type of history that pertains to profiling character traits associated with ordering ink e.g. demographic psychographic behavioral information such as level of printing activity age gender wealth index interests shopping habits and the like can be employed by the prediction component as part of predicting ink depletion models for an end user.

The following discussion is an example for a Markov model that can be employed in conjunction with aspects disclosed herein. It is to be appreciated that such discussion serves as an example and various deviations can occur from the particular model information. Prediction of ink depletion periods for a user or printer device can be based on its past history wherein a model for sequence of ink depletion periods can be designated as xwherein i represents a continuous time variable. It is further to be appreciated that if the model is further simplified i can alternatively represent a discrete time variable. For example considering an interval oft 3 month time frames from initial use of a printer or ink cartridge wherein continuous time variables can be represented as 0

Hence xcan represent a time period after ink depletion for particular printer and or printer activity of a user and P x designates the likelihood of ink depletion and or reordering ink during or for such time period. Accordingly for each customer whenever a prediction is performed respective time period evaluated for ink depletion can be denoted as x x x . . . x where xis the time at time of installing new ink cartridge and xrepresents a predefined time period for the contact center that the model no longer reorders ink cartridge and instead implements other actions such as warning the end user. Hence depending on whether the model employs a continuous probability distribution based on time as a continuous random variable or alternatively is simplified as a discrete probability distribution the probability of reordering ink cartridge can be represented by P x P x

Based on such model a probability distribution can be obtained wherein the horizontal axis represents discrete time points and the vertical axis is the likelihood of reordering ink cartridge and or printer supplies. Associated histograms can be built and subsequently normalized to obtain a discrete or continuous probability distribution. Moreover various statistical values such as mean values and standard deviation can subsequently be computed. It is to be appreciated that parameters can further be defined based on second order models which can be sensitive to an additional element such as particular channel information for an end user.

Subsequently and at an account manager associated with the system e.g. as part of the central management unit can be contacted to verify type of account that the user has registered for print activities. For example if a prepaid account exists then the system can validate if the user has sufficient funds available to print the document.

In a related example if a postpaid account exists then the job can be directly submitted for processing. As such and at the print request can be processed and printed on the web enabled printer e.g. which is mapped to the user. At ink usage details employed for such task can then be communicated with the account manager and suitable adjustments made to the user account.

The system with inference component can employ any of a variety of suitable AI based schemes as described supra in connection with facilitating various aspects of the herein described disclosure. For example a process for learning explicitly or implicitly how parameters are to be created for training models based on escalations of contact can be facilitated via an automatic classification system and process. Classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. For example a support vector machine SVM classifier can be employed. Other classification approaches include Bayesian networks decision trees and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the subject disclosure can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information so that the classifier is used to automatically determine according to a predetermined criteria which answer to return to a question. For example SVM s can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class .

It is to be appreciated that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where media may be found. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various embodiments of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments e.g. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store. Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device. Additionally a suitable server can include one or more aspects of the below computer such as a media server or other media management server components.

Although not required embodiments can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described herein. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more embodiments includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . Computer can for example implement systems and or components described in connection with various aspect of the subject disclosure.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessor and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein can be implemented with modules or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors.

A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described herein and similarly storage can be affected across a plurality of devices. The subject disclosure is not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

