---

title: Forming networks of users associated with a central entity
abstract: Computer-implemented methods, computer-readable media, and systems for forming networks of users associated with a central entity. When a central entity receives multiple requests from multiple users to register for an event associated with the entity, the entity forms a user network that did not exist until then. The entity receives data describing the users using which the entity generates user interfaces showing all users in the network, and presents the user interfaces on users' computer systems. When a subset of the users check-in with the entity, the entity displays information about one of the users in the subset to another, and allows the users to communicate with each other. When the event associated with the entity ends, the entity terminates the network. In this manner, the central entity forms temporary user networks that expire when an event scheduled at the central entity occurs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938504&OS=08938504&RS=08938504
owner: SAP Portals Israel Ltd
number: 08938504
owner_city: Ra'anana
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20120419
---
The present disclosure relates to software computer systems and computer implemented methods for forming user networks.

Computer systems such as desktop computers laptop computers smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants and the like can be configured to be connected to other computer systems over wired or wireless networks for example the Internet. Using computer systems connected to each other users of computer systems can form a network for example a social network and share information with each other. The infrastructure of such a network can be implemented on one or more computer systems which can execute computer software applications that perform operations. The operations can allow a user to connect to the network using a client computer system to create a user account to store data associated with the user in the user account and to provide a profile of the user that presents the data. To perform one or more of these operations the computer systems can provide user interfaces with which the user can interact to provide and view data associated with the user and other users. The computer systems can additionally provide client side computer software applications that can be executed by a variety of client computer systems including desktop computers and mobile devices such as tablet computers laptop computers mobile phones and the like. The user can access the network and particularly the user s account on the network through user interfaces provided by the client side applications. In some situations the operations performed by the computer software applications include providing functionalities based on a user s geographic location which the computer systems can obtain from the user for example from a Global Positioning System GPS executing on the user s client computer system.

The present disclosure involves systems software and computer implemented methods for forming networks of users associated with a central entity.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a computer implemented method performed by one or more data processing apparatus. Multiple requests are received at a computer system from multiple users. Each request is a request to form a respective association with the computer system and includes data associated with a respective user of the plurality of users. In response to receiving the multiple requests a network is created at the computer system. The network includes the multiple users. Data associated with each user of the multiple users is stored at the computer system. That each user of a subset of users of the network has performed a common operation at the computer system is detected. In response at least a portion of data associated with at least one user of the subset is provided to at least one other user of the subset.

This and other aspects can include one or more of the following features. The computer system can be associated with a central entity to which each user of the multiple users sends each request to form the respective association. The central entity can be an event scheduled to occur at a geographic location. The common operation can include transmitting a registration request using a mobile device to the computer system associated with the central entity. It can be determined that a first user and a second user have transmitted respective registration requests to the computer system. A first distance of the first user and a second distance of the second user from a common geographic location can be displayed on a mobile device associated with the first user. The network can be terminated after an expiration of the event. A functionality to transmit communications to and receive communications from a second computer system associated with a second user can be executed on a first computer system associated with a first user. A user interface that displays multiple objects connected to a common object can be generated at the computer system. Each of the multiple objects can represent a user of the network. The user interface can be provided in response to receiving the request for the user interface from a mobile device of a user of the network. An image associated with each user can be displayed in a respective object that represents each user. An advertisement selected based on stored data associated with the particular user can be presented to the user. The data associated with each user can include one or more of an age a geographic location demographic data or user interest.

Another aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a non transitory computer readable medium tangibly encoding computer program instructions executable by data processing apparatus to perform operations described here. The operations include receiving at a computer system associated with a central entity multiple requests from a respective multiple users. Each request is a request to form a respective association with the central entity and each request includes data associated with a respective user. Each user is associated with a respective mobile device. In response to receiving the multiple requests a network associating the plurality of users with the central entity is created at the computer system. Data associated with each user of the multiple users is stored at the computer system. A notification is received at the computer system from a particular mobile device associated with a particular user of a subset of users of the network. The notification triggers a connection between the computer system and the particular mobile device. In response to receiving the notification multiple functionalities are executed by the computer system at the mobile device. The multiple functionalities communicate at least a portion of data associated with at least one other user of the subset to the particular user.

This and other aspects can include one or more of the following features. A termination event at the central entity can be detected at the computer system. In response to detecting the termination event the network can be terminated. The central entity can be an event scheduled to occur at a geographical location. The termination event can be an end of the event. A request from the particular user to form a respective association with the central entity can include a request from the particular user to register for the event. A notification from the particular mobile device associated with the particular user can include a notification to check in the registered particular user to the event. It can be determined that a first user and a second user have each transmitted a respective request to form a respective association with the central entity. A first distance of the first user and a second distance of the second user from the central entity can be displayed on a first mobile device associated with the first user. A functionality to transmit communications to and receive communications from a second mobile device associated with the second user can be executed on the first mobile device. The data associated with each user can include one or more of an age a geographic location demographic data or user interest.

A further aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a system including one or more data processing apparatus and a non transitory computer readable medium tangibly storing computer program instructions executable by the one or more data processing apparatus to perform the operations described here.

While generally described as computer implemented software embodied on tangible media that processes and transforms the respective data some or all of the aspects may be computer implemented methods or further included in respective systems or other devices for performing this described functionality. The details of these and other aspects and implementations of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This disclosure describes computer implemented methods computer readable media and computer systems for forming networks of users associated with a central entity. In some situations an event associated with the central entity can be scheduled to occur at a scheduled time. After the event has been scheduled the central entity or organizers of the event or both can communicate notifications that the event is scheduled to occur. By executing one or more computer software applications using central computer systems described below the central entity can provide notifications for example through one or more webpages of a website electronic mail e mail messages electronic newsletters or combinations of them. Through the notifications the central entity can solicit recipients of the notification to participate in the event at the scheduled time.

Upon receiving the notification multiple users can form the multiple associations with the event. Using respective user computer systems described below multiple users can register to participate in the event at the scheduled time using the webpage of the website. When the multiple users form the respective associations the central computer systems can form a network that includes the central entity and each of the multiple users. The central computer systems can form the network such that the central entity is connected to each user in the network for as long as the duration exists. The central computer systems can enable one or more users of the network to establish connections with one or more other users of the network either directly or through the central entity. The central computer systems can begin to form the network as requests to form associations are received from the user computer systems. Alternatively the central computer systems can store a deadline to receive requests to form associations from user computer systems and form the network when the deadline expires. The network of users who have formed associations may not exist prior to the central computer systems forming the network.

Each user can share data describing the respective user with the central entity. The data can include a geographic location associated with the user. For example the central computer systems can provide forms for example electronic forms implemented in webpages that can be displayed in user interfaces on user computer systems. Each user can provide the data to the central entity through the user interfaces. Alternatively each user can store a profile including the data on a computer system and can provide the profile to the central computer system together with the request to form the association. In another example the central computer systems may have created and stored a profile of data for a particular user in the past and can access the profile upon determining that the particular user has requested to form an association with the central entity. In this manner the central entity can obtain data describing the users in the network.

Subject to users permissions the central entity can share at least a portion of data describing a user with other users in the network. As described below the central computer systems can generate multiple user interfaces that can be displayed at user computer systems and through each user interface communicate different types of data to each user. The central computer systems can additionally provide functionalities using which two users of the network can communicate with each other using respective user computer systems. Based on data describing a particular user the central computer systems can cause content for example advertisements or other content items of interest to be presented to the particular user on a respective user computer system. The central computer systems can either generate the content or receive the content from one or more of the other users or from a third party outside the network. Further based on a history of interactions of users with the central entity and with each other the central computer systems can determine a behavior of a user or users in the network.

The central computer systems can detect a termination event for example an end of the event associated with the central entity an expiration of the time at which the event was scheduled to occur or the like. When the central computer systems detect the termination event then the central computer systems can terminate the network of users. Terminating the network of users can include ending each association formed between each user and the central entity and ceasing to provide the user interfaces through which user computer systems could previously interact with the central computer systems or with each other or both . In some implementations the central computer systems can store the data describing the users in the network even after having terminated the network.

In this manner the central entity can form a temporary ad hoc network at a first time and terminate the network at a second subsequent time. While the network exists the central entity can allow users connected to the network to communicate with the central entity or with each other or both. For example the central computer systems can provide computer software applications executable on a range of user computer systems for example desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers mobile devices smart phones and the like that enable users of the network to communicate with the central entity and with each other using various user computer systems. As described below several of the functionalities that the computer software applications can provide can be based on a geographic location of a user that the central computer systems can determine using the user computer systems with which the users access the central computer systems. Once the network has been terminated the users of the network may no longer be able to communicate with each other through the central entity.

Examples of a central entity include an event a person a geographical location or any entity with which multiple users can form respective associations. For example the central entity can be a convention center and the event can be a conference proceeding scheduled to occur at the convention center. The conference itself can be the central entity and a conference organizer can check attendees roles and send notifications about interesting sessions to interested attendees based on their roles. In another example the central entity can be a person and the event can be a social event scheduled to occur at the person s residence or another geographic location. In a further example the central entity can be a shopping mall that includes multiple stores and the event can be a sale event occurring at the shopping mall or in one or more of the stores.

In some situations the central computer system can transmit a notification to each user system and responsively receive a request from each user system. For example the central computer system can present a website at each user system notifying each user of the central entity and providing functionality to each user to connect to the central entity using the website. In an example in which the central entity is a person the person can transmit a message such as an e mail message using the central computer system to each user system notifying each user of an event associated with the person. Each user can transmit a response to the message to the central computer system using a respective user system. In another example the central computer system can notify each user of an event scheduled to occur at the central entity at a later date via e mail or through a website or combinations of them in response to which each user can register for the event using the respective computer system.

As shown in the central computer system receives the multiple requests from the user systems and in response creates a network including the multiple users. The central computer system can provide users in the network access to data about the central entity for example details describing the geographical location of the central entity details about the event scheduled to occur at the central entity and the like. The users can access the data using the respective user systems. Also through respective user systems users can provide data associated with the users to the central computer system . The data describing a user can include one or more of an age of the user a geographic location associated with the user a geographic location of the user computer system demographic data user interest combinations of them and the like. In some implementations the users can provide respective data to the central computer system with the respective requests to form associations. In this manner the central computer system can create the network including the multiple users and store data associated with each of the multiple users. The network of users may not have existed until the central computer system created the network .

Alternatively if the central entity is a person organizing a meeting with friends then the central computer system can be a desktop computer a laptop computer and the like that can store the computer program instructions on a computer readable medium for example a hard disk and execute the instructions using data processing apparatus installed in the system . In some implementations the size and scale of the central computer system can be independent of the nature of the central entity. For example where the central entity is a person the central computer system can be the server system.

In some implementations after having formed the network the central computer system can detect that each user of a subset of users of the network has performed a common operation at the central computer system . For example a first user of the first user system who has previously registered with the central computer system to attend an event at a central entity can check in to the event at a time after registering but before the time at which the event is scheduled to occur. For example using the first computer system or a mobile device that executes a version of the computer software application the first user can access a website of the event and select a check in option presented in a webpage of the website. In similar manner a subset of users that includes less than or all users of the network can each check in to the event thereby performing a common operation. In some situations all users of the network can check in to the event.

The central computer system can provide to each user of the subset of users at least a portion of data associated with at least one other user of the subset in response to detecting that each user of the subset has performed the common operation. As described below with reference to the central computer system can display user interfaces on the user systems of each user in the subset and through the user interfaces can provide at least the portion of data associated with at least one other user. For example the central computer system can display the identities of each user in the network distances between a physical location of each user s computer system and the central entity a geographical location of each user in a map and actions that each user can perform using a respective user system . The central computer system can determine each item of data that is displayed in the user interfaces from the data associated with the users in the network .

In an example in which the central entity is a convention center and the event associated with the central entity is a conference proceeding scheduled to occur at the convention center the central computer system can display the common object as an icon in which the central computer system can display an image of the convention center or an image associated with the conference proceeding or a combination of them. Similarly the central computer system can display each of the multiple objects as a respective icon. In each object the central computer system can display an image associated with each user of the network. For example the central computer system can display an image of each user which the central computer system can have received with the data describing the user. In addition the central computer system can display data describing a user adjacent to an object representing the user. The data can include for example a name associated with the user a distance between the user and the central entity determined as described below with reference to and the like. The data can additionally include for example a time that it will take for the user to arrive at the central entity determined based on the distance. Further the time can be periodically updated based on updates to the user s location and consequently the distance. Each of the multiple objects can be displayed as being connected to the common object for example by a line solid or dotted with or without terminal arrows. Alternatively or in addition any other visual representation can be used to communicate the connection between each of the multiple objects and the common object .

In some implementations the central computer system can be configured to generate the first user interface when the first user of the first user computer system provides a first request to form an association with the central entity. In such implementations the first user interface can include the common object and an object representing the first user. As additional requests to form additional associations are received from additional users the central computer system can update the first user interface to display additional objects that represent the additional users. By doing so the first user interface can visually communicate an increase in connections as additional associations are formed. In some implementations the central computer system can be configured to generate the first user interface after all the users have formed respective associations. For example the central computer system can generate the first user interface after a deadline to register for the conference proceedings has expired as additional users may not be added to the network once the deadline has expired.

In some implementations the central computer system can display a first distance and a second distance between the first user and the second user respectively and the central entity. For example the central computer system can display the distances adjacent to the respective objects such as below above or to the right or left of the objects. Methods using which the central computer system can determine the first distance and the second distance are described below.

In some implementations the example second user interface shown in is a portion of the example first user interface shown in . Whereas the user interface shows all the users in the network the user interface shows fewer than all the users. In some implementations the central computer system can display the first user interface which displays all users of the network in the display area of the fifth computer system . The central computer system can receive an input to display only a portion of the first user interface for example in the form of a touch input or using an input device such as a keyboard or stylus not shown . In response the central computer system can generate and display the second user interface in place of the first user interface .

In some implementations the central computer system can generate and display the second user interface in the display area for example in response to receiving a request from the user of the fifth computer system to display a user interface that shows specific users such as the first user and the second user. As described above the central computer system can configure each object in the first user interface to be a selectable control object a selection of which performs functions. For example upon viewing the first user interface the user of the fifth computer system can select the first object and the second object . To do so the user can provide any type of input using for example a touch screen keyboard cursor voice and the like.

The central computer system can determine the selection of the two objects to be an input to filter the first user interface to display only the first object and the second object . In response the client computer system can generate and display the second user interface in the display area in place of the first user interface . In this manner in response to user input the central computer system can generate multiple user interfaces each of which displays less than all of the objects in the first user interface . Because the second user interface includes fewer objects than the first user interface more display area is available to display the first object and the second object in the second user interface relative to the first user interface . Consequently the central computer system can display more data describing each user in the second user interface relative to the first user interface .

The central computer system can obtain the geographic location of the first user in several ways. In one example the central computer system can retrieve the geographic location from the data describing the first user. In another example the third computer system can be configured to transmit its location for example using a GPS device installed in the third computer system . When the first user uses the third computer system to access the central computer system and in some situations provides permission to track the location of the third computer system then the central computer system can determine that the geographic location of the third computer system is the location of the first user. In some implementations the system can obtain the geographic location based on an Internet Protocol IP address of the third computer system or an address of a router through which data is transmitted to the third computer system or both. In some implementations the system can obtain the geographic location when the third computer system connects to public Application Programming Interface API offered by servers connected to the Internet.

As described above the central computer system can display a distance between a user and the central entity or between two users in the first user interface and in other user interfaces. To determine the distance between for example a user and the central entity the central computer system can provide respective geographic location of the user and of the central entity to a separate computer software application that can determine distances. The central computer system can receive determined distances and display them in the user interfaces. In implementations in which the central computer system receives the geographic location from a GPS device installed on a user computer system the central computer system can periodically provide the location received from the user computer system to the separate computer software location and periodically receive the distance between the user computer system and the central entity. By doing so the central computer system can periodically update the distance of the user computer system in the generated user interfaces thereby allowing one or more users or the central entity or both to track the location of the user computer system.

The central computer system can display the map object as a layer in the display area and can display another object over the map object and adjacent to the object in the map object that represents the geographic location. In this other object the central computer system can display data describing the first user including for example the first user s name an image of the first user contact information for the first user and the like. The central computer system can obtain the data from the data describing the first user. In some implementations the image of the first user can be the image displayed in an object representing the first user in the first user interface . In addition the central computer system can provide functionalities to hide all or some of the data shown in the other object .

In some implementations another user for example the second user can access the central computer system using another user computer system not shown and select the first object representing the first user from the first user interface . By implementing methods similar to those described above the central computer system can display a geographic location of the first user and data describing the first user to the second user in a display area of the other computer system. In this manner the central computer system can display a geographic location of any user connected to the network to any other user connected to the network .

In some implementations the central computer system can generate a fourth user interface not shown that the central computer system generates and displays in the display device connected to the third user computer system . As described above the central computer system can obtain the geographic location of a user or of a user computer system or both with data describing the user or the central entity provide the geographic locations to the separate computer system that can determine distances and receive multiple distances a distance between a user and the central entity and a distance between two users. As described below the central computer system can execute a filtering operation to identify users that are within a pre defined distance from the central entity. For example the central computer system can request an input for a pre defined distance either from the central entity. Upon receiving the pre defined distance the central computer system can identify one or more users of the network that are within the pre defined distance from the central entity for example by comparing the distances received from the separate computer system. The central computer system can display the fourth user interface that displays objects representing only those users whose geographic location is within the pre defined distance from the central entity. In some implementations the central computer system can display a visual indicator for example a highlighting around an object which allows a viewer of the user interface to visually discern the objects representing users who are within the pre defined distance.

In some implementations the central computer system can display the first user interface in a user computer system. Through the user computer system a user can select one or more objects representing one or more respective users. In this manner the user can form a subset of users of the network . The central computer system can additionally receive a pre defined distance from the user through the user computer system. Subsequently when the central computer system determines that one or more users of the subset are within a pre defined distance either from the central entity or from the user then the central computer system can display the visual indicator around the one or more objects representing the one or more users determined as being within the pre defined distance.

The central computer system can generate the user interfaces described here for display in any type of user computer system including for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile device and the like. In some implementations the central computer system can generate several versions of each user interface for example high resolution interface a low resolution interface interfaces of different sizes and the like. A version of the user interface that the central computer system provides to a user computer system can depend on factors including for example the type of the user computer system the type of network connection that connects a user computer system to the central computer system and the like.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium for example the computer readable medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical and or non transitory components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus for example data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources. The subject matter described here can be implemented in a cloud computing environment. For example the requests from client devices to form associations with the central entity can be received over a cloud to which the client devices and the central entity are connected. In addition the requests the user data and data generated by the central entity can be stored in the cloud.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network for example network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any implementations or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular implementations. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

