---

title: Multiple input multiple output (MIMO) transmitted signal vector estimation employing Monte Carlo sampling techniques
abstract: A method of determining a transmitted vector (x) in a MIMO receiver includes the steps of receiving a received vector (y) representative of the transmitted vector (x), generating a first random number and forming, in a first iteration, a first symbol of a first candidate vector, the candidate vector representing a potential solution vector. The step of forming is based on a first approach if the first random number is greater than a first predetermined value (q), but is based on a second approach if the random number is less than or equal to the first predetermined value (q). The first approach randomly selects the first symbol from a uniform distribution of symbols in the transmission alphabet. The second approach selects the first symbol based on Gibbs sampling. The method represents a randomized Markov Chain Monte Carlo (RMCMC) sampling technique.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08675780&OS=08675780&RS=08675780
owner: Indian Institute of Science
number: 08675780
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20120516
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from co pending India provisional patent application entitled NEAR OPTIMAL LARGE MIMO DETECTION USING RANDOMIZED MCMC WITH RESTARTS application serial number 1898 CHE 2011 filed on 3 Jun. 2011 naming as inventors Kumar et al. and is incorporated in its entirety herewith.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to communication systems and more specifically to techniques for detection of a transmitted signal vector in multiple input multiple output MIMO communication systems using Monte Carlo sampling techniques.

Multiple input multiple output MIMO communication systems MIMO systems are well known in relevant arts and generally refer to systems in which multiple antennas are employed for communication between a transmitting device MIMO transmitter and a receiving device MIMO receiver . The transmitting device may either represent a single device with the multiple antennas or multiple separate devices each with its own antenna s . MIMO technology is currently utilized in wireless communication according to standards such as for example IEEE 802.11n 802.11ac LTE Advanced WiMAX etc. Each of the multiple separate MIMO transmitters may represent a different user. For example assuming there are Nt different users each having one transmit antenna a total of Nt symbols are transmitted simultaneously in each symbol period one symbol from each of the Nt users. One of several modulation techniques may be used to transmit each of the symbols. In addition suitable MIMO encoding techniques may be employed in the MIMO transmitter to generate the symbols after modulation.

A corresponding MIMO receiver with Nr receive antennas Nr being equal to or different from typically larger than Nt may receive on each of the Nr antennas a superposition of the Nt symbols altered by the wireless channel during propagation from the transmitter s to the receiver. Detection or estimation refers to determination estimation at the MIMO receiver of the values of each of the Nt transmitted symbols in each symbol period.

MIMO systems that employ large number of antennas for example to achieve high data transmission rates throughputs the process of detection may be associated with correspondingly high computational complexity. Another concern with detection techniques in a MIMO receiver may relate to performance or reliability . In general the detection needs to determine or estimate the transmitted symbols accurately preferably close to optimum bit error rate BER performance. In general a lower BER corresponds to a better performance of the detection techniques and vice versa.

Markov Chain Monte Carlo MCMC sampling techniques have previously been employed in a MIMO receiver for the estimation of the multiple Nt transmitted symbols. However simple MCMC sampling techniques employing Gibbs sampling may be associated with a potential drawback generally termed stalling that may occur at high receive signal to noise ratio SNR . Stalling occurs when the iterations of the MCMC technique repeatedly generate the same candidate vector constructed from the transmitted symbol alphabet as a next potential solution vector such that the estimation may stall i.e. does not progress further.

Several features of the present invention provide a MIMO signal estimation technique employing MCMC techniques that obviates the stalling problem noted above and provides good performance while being of sufficiently low complexity for its implementation.

c forming in a first iteration a first symbol of a first candidate vector the candidate vector representing a potential solution vector.

The step of forming is based on a first approach if the first random number is greater than a first predetermined value q but is based on a second approach if the random number is less than or equal to the first predetermined value q . The first approach randomly selects the first symbol from a uniform distribution of symbols in the transmission alphabet. The second approach selects the first symbol based on Gibbs sampling. The method represents a randomized Markov Chain Monte Carlo RMCMC sampling technique. Structures of a MIMO receiver implementing the approaches and systems using such receivers are also disclosed.

Several embodiments of the present disclosure are described below with reference to examples for illustration. It should be understood that numerous specific details relationships and methods are set forth to provide a full understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art however will readily recognize that the techniques can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods etc.

The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

Each of the transmitters through Nt transmits on the same frequency and each of the transmitted signals occupy the same bandwidth. Further the transmissions from transmitters through Nt are synchronized such that each transmits a symbol in a corresponding symbol period. Any of well known modulation techniques e.g. 4 QAM etc. may be used to transmit signals carrying the data.

As indicated by the corresponding arrows in a signal transmitted from an antenna of MIMO transmitter may be received at all antennas through Nr of MIMO receiver with corresponding modifications in amplitude and or phase caused by the wireless medium through which it propagates. Thus each of antennas through Nr receives a corresponding signal which is a weighted sum of all transmitted signals i.e. from all antennas through Nt.

yrepresents the received signal vector at MIMO receiver and contains Nr complex entries each corresponding to a signal received at a corresponding one of the Nr antennas through Nr 

xrepresents the transmitted signal vector containing each of the complex Nt symbols transmitted from the corresponding one of MIMO transmitters through Nt 

Hc represents the channel transfer matrix of dimension Nr Nt with each entry channel coefficient representing a channel gain for a corresponding transmit antenna receive antenna pair 

nis a noise vector containing Nr entries with each of the Nr entries representing a corresponding additive noise added to the signal received at the corresponding one of antennas through Nr by MIMO receiver . Entries of nmay be modeled as variables with Gaussian distribution with a zero mean and corresponding variances.

In Equation 1 above the channel representing by matrix H is assumed to be a frequency non selective flat fading channel and the signal bandwidth of each of the signals transmitted by transmitters through Nt is much smaller than the channel coherence bandwidth.

However the techniques of the present invention are also applicable when the channel is frequency selective. As is well known in the relevant arts a frequency selective channel does not have a flat response over the signal bandwidth of interest. Instead the gains for each frequency or frequency portions bins in the bandwidth of interest may have different gains. When operating in frequency selective channels embodiments of the present invention may use multi carrier modulation such as Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing or OFDM in each of transmitters through Nt.

As is well known in the relevant arts in OFDM multiple mutually orthogonal sub carriers are used to carry data. Since the bandwidth required for each sub carrier being much smaller than the channel coherence bandwidth with OFDM a frequency selective channel behaves as a flat channel for each sub carrier. Matrix Hin such a case will have multiple entries corresponding to each transmit antenna receive antenna pair. Assuming for example that 64 subcarriers are used in each transmitted signal there would be an Hmatrix corresponding to each of the sub carriers and thus a total of 64 Hmatrices with corresponding gain entries. The techniques of the present invention can be individually applied to each transformation y Hx n on each subcarrier.

Channel transfer matrix Hc or in the case of MIMO OFDM the multiple channel matrices may be made available to MIMO receiver in a known way. For example prior to transmission of actual data information and or at periodic intervals during operation of MIMO system transmitters through Nt and MIMO receiver may exchange respective signals of pre determined characteristics and measure the changes in amplitude and phase of the signals caused by the wireless channel thereby obtain the entries of channel matrix H.

The process of detection in MIMO receiver therefore entails determination or estimation of the transmitted signal vector x i.e. the Nt symbols transmitted in each symbol period based on a knowledge of channel matrix Hand the measured values of received signal vector y i.e. the signal measured at each of the Nr receive antennas . In addition statistics of noise vector n may also be used in estimating transmitted signal vector x.

In Equation 1A the entries in y x H and nare complex numbers with a real part and an imaginary part. In embodiments of the present invention the complex system model represented by Equation 1A is first converted to a real system model represented as shown below Equation 2A

yis the vector containing the real and imaginary parts of y stacked one below the other and is of size 2Nr 1 

xis the vector containing the real and imaginary parts of x stacked one below the other and is of size 2Nt 1 

nis the vector containing the real and imaginary parts of n stacked one below the other and is of size 2Nr 1 and

For notational convenience the subscripts r in Equation 2A are dropped. The system model after dropping the subscripts r in Equation 2A is given by Equation 2B

Several candidate vectors may be tried as potential solution vectors seeking to represent the actual transmitted vector and that candidate vector that minimizes the cost Hx y may be selected as the final solution vector. The approach of the minimization of the cost Hx y over all possible solution vectors is also termed as the maximum likelihood ML detection which is also equivalent to minimizing a function f x given by the following equation 2 Equation 2C

However it is noted that Equation 2A is equivalent to Equation 1A differing merely in representation. In alternative embodiments of the present invention the complex model represented by Equation 1A may be used instead.

A prior detection technique employs Markov Chain Monte Carlo MCMC techniques to obtain an estimate of the transmitted vector x and is described next.

In the prior conventional MCMC technique an initial symbol vector x of size 2Nt 1 and symbols denoted as x xand so on till x is selected randomly as a potential solution vector. Each symbol in the initial symbol vector is chosen from a random distribution of all possible symbol values from the modulation alphabet. Thus for example assuming the alphabet consists of four symbols each symbol in the potential solution vector is chosen randomly from a uniform distribution of the four symbols.

The cost y Hx associated with the initial symbol vector is then computed. A next candidate vector for consideration as a solution vector is obtained by performing Gibbs sampling from a joint distribution P x x . . . x y H . Joint distribution P specifies the probability distribution of all possible transmitted vectors given a received vector y and channel matrix H and is proportional to the value of the expression exp y Hx 

 represents a temperature parameter that serves to reduce the higher moments of the number of iterations and thereby to maximize the probability of arriving at the correct solution quickly when only a finite number of iterations are used.

Obtaining the next candidate vector involves sequentially determining each symbol in the vector. Thus since a next candidate vector should have 2Nt co ordinates 2Nt selections are required for each iteration i.e. a next candidate vector determination. In each iteration 2Nt updates are carried out by sampling from the distribution noted above in a manner as described next.

Each iteration i.e. determination of each next candidate vector involves 2Nt sub steps referred to conveniently as s1 through s2Nt . In each sub step of iteration t 1 the values of all symbols or co ordinates except one are retained with the same values as in the immediately previous iteration t . Corresponding to each possible value of the remaining symbol selectable from the modulation alphabet a corresponding intermediate vector is constructed retaining the previous values from iteration t of all the other symbols. Thus the number of intermediate vectors equals the number of symbols in the modulation alphabet. For example if the modulation alphabet has four symbols four intermediate vectors are obtained in each sub step. The values of the probabilities of each such intermediate vector is computed from the expression exp Hx y . The selection of the intermediate vectors in each sub step is clarified further below in which it is assumed that the modulation alphabet consists of four symbols namely 3 1 1 and 3.

Denoting t as the iteration index and T as the co ordinate index in a candidate vector the initial symbol vector at iteration is denoted by the vector x x . . . x with xbeing the first symbol of the vector at time t xbeing the second symbol of the vector at time t and so on.

In sub step s1 of the next iteration t 1 four intermediate vectors are constructed retaining the values of all symbols xthrough xthe same as in the initial symbol vector but each with one of the four possible values for symbol x. Since the alphabet consists of the symbols 3 1 1 and 3 the following four intermediate vectors are constructed in sub step s1 3 1 1 and 3 .

The probability values of each of the four intermediate vectors noted above is then computed based on the expression exp y Hx . These four values are normalized to form a valid probability mass function pmf . Denote each of the four probability values as p p p and p. Assuming p p p and p are respectively 0.24 0.22 0.5 and 0.04 the corresponding probability mass function is shown in and the corresponding cumulative distribution function cdf is shown in .

From this cdf bins are formed as shown in wherein each bin corresponds to a symbol in the alphabet. In the example of bin from extends from 0 to 0.24 and corresponds to symbol 3 bin extends from 0.24 to 0.46 and corresponds to symbol 1 bin extends from 0.46 to 0.96 and corresponds to symbol 1 and bin extends from 0.96 to 1 and corresponds to symbol 3. A uniform random number between 0 to 1 is then generated and the value of x 1 is selected to be that symbol that corresponds to the bin that this random number falls in. For example if the random number obtained has a value of 0.5 xis set to the symbol corresponding to bin in this case 1. Other symbols of the next candidate vector are determined in a similar fashion keeping the rest of the other corresponding symbols the same as in the previous iteration. At the end of 2Nt sub steps a new candidate vector is thus obtained.

The ML cost of the new candidate vector may be computed following which other candidate vectors may be formed and evaluated in a similar fashion. The candidate vector with the least ML cost after a desired number of iterations is then declared as the solution vector.

However the prior conventional MCMC technique described above may have a drawback referred to as stalling according to which two or more successive candidate vectors may all be the same and therefore a solution vector with a desired ML cost may not be obtained even after a large number of iterations. A modified MCMC sampling technique according to the present invention overcomes such a problem as described next.

In embodiments of the present invention the technique of selection of each symbol of a next candidate vector is selectable between the conventional MCMC technique Gibbs sampling described in detail above and a random sampling from a uniform distribution of the symbols of the modulation alphabet. The modified sampling technique is referred to as randomized MCMC RMCMC or alternatively as Mixture Sampling Algorithm . In an embodiment of the present invention a probability value q is set equal to Nt wherein Nt is the number of transmitters and the Gibbs sampling samples the distribution exp y Hx i.e. with the temperature parameter set to 1.

The probability of selection of a symbol of the next candidate vector using random sampling is q while the probability of selection of the symbol using Gibbs sampling is 1 q . A random number between 0 to 1 is then generated. If the value of the random number is less than q then random sampling is used to select the symbol but if the value of the random number is greater than or equal to q then Gibbs sampling is used. By providing an option for such selection of each symbol of a next candidate vector the stalling problem of the prior conventional MCMC technique is overcome. The technique of selecting a symbol or co ordinate of each candidate vector using either Gibbs sampling or random sampling as described above is termed randomized MCMC RMCMC or as Mixture Sampling Algorithm and provides a low complexity algorithm with near ML maximum likelihood performance. Each candidate vector thus obtained may be evaluated against its ML cost and the vector with the least ML cost may be declared as a final solution vector representing a transmitted vector.

It may be appreciated that the Mixture Sampling Algorithm in effect samples one of two probability distributions the distributions being 

It is noted however that the two distributions used by the Mixture Sampling Algorithm are not restricted to those noted above. In general by suitably selecting the value of in each of the two probability distributions other probability distribution pairs can instead be used to select a symbol of a candidate vector.

In an embodiment the number of iterations of the Mixture Sampling Algorithm before a final solution vector is declared is fixed. However in other embodiments other stopping criteria may be used. For example a dynamic stopping criterion is used in an alternative embodiment that yields good performance without unduly increasing the complexity. The criterion works as described next.

A stalling is said to have occurred if the ML cost remains unchanged in two consecutive iterations. Once such a stalling is identified the Mixture Sampling Algorithm generates a positive integer termed the stalling limit Sl and the iterations are allowed to continue in stalling mode i.e. without ML cost change up to a maximum of Sl iterations from the occurrence of stalling. If a lower ML cost is encountered before Sl iterations the algorithm proceeds with the newly found lower ML cost otherwise the Mixture Sampling Algorithm terminates. If termination does not happen through stalling limit as above the Mixture Sampling Algorithm terminates on completing a pre determined maximum number of iterations. The value of Sl may be chosen based on the quality of the stalled ML cost. A large value for Sl is preferred if the quality of the stalled ML cost is poor because of the available potential for improvement from a poor stalled solution. On the other hand if the stalled ML cost quality is already good then a small value of Sl is preferred. The quality of a stalled solution is determined in terms of closeness of the stalled ML cost to a value obtained using the statistics mean and variance of the ML cost for the case when x is detected error free.

The Mixture Sampling Algorithm of the present invention may not be near optimal i.e. may not result in a satisfactorily low ML cost for higher order modulation techniques e.g. 16 QAM 32 QAM 64 QAM 128 QAM etc. . Another aspect of the present invention addresses this problem as described next.

In Mixture Sampling Algorithm with restarts which may also be referred to as RMCMC with restarts the basic Mixture Sampling Algorithm described above is run i.e. performed or executed multiple times each time with a different random initial vector. The vector with the least ML cost at the end of the multiple runs is declared as the solution vector.

Thus one run of the Mixture Sampling Algorithm described above may be stopped after a predetermined number of iterations in a manner similar to that described above. However after the predetermined number of iterations of the first run the next initial candidate vector may be chosen randomly from the modulation alphabet and the iterations are continued thereafter. The second run may be stopped also after a predetermined number of iterations and subsequent similar runs of the Mixture Sampling Algorithm may be performed. Such restart allows the Mixture Sampling Algorithm to potentially consider a wider set of candidate vectors. The RMCMC with restarts alternatively also referred to as Mixture Sampling Algorithm with Restarts provide solution vectors with sufficiently low ML cost even for higher order modulation techniques without substantially increasing the computational complexity.

The multiple runs of the Mixture Sampling Algorithm may be performed one after the other. Alternatively multiple iterations of the Mixture Sampling Algorithm each with a corresponding initial vector chosen randomly may be performed in parallel. Mixture Sampling Algorithm with Restarts may be performed such that a total desired number of iterations and restarts are performed. As an example if the total number of iterations is desired to be 300 150 iterations may be performed in a first run according to Mixture Sampling Algorithm starting with one initial vector and another 150 iterations may be performed in a second run according to Mixture Sampling Algorithm starting with another initial vector. Another example is when four sets of 75 iterations are performed each with a corresponding initial vector. After the end of the desired number of iterations and restarts the candidate vector with the least ML cost is declared as the final solution vector.

In general increasing the number of restarts improves performance but is associated with higher computational complexity. In embodiments of the present invention a decision whether to terminate the algorithm or to go for another restart is taken at the end of each restart and is based on the ML cost of solution vectors and the number of repetitions of the solution vectors. The Mixture Sampling Algorithm with automatic determination of the number of restarts to be used is summarized in the steps noted below 

Step 3 Check if Rmax number of restarts are completed wherein Rmax represents the maximum number to be used for restarts. If Rmax number of restarts are completed control is transferred to Step 5 otherwise control is transferred to Step 4.

Step 4 For the solution vector with minimum ML cost obtained so far find the required number of repetitions needed using the formula P max 0 c2 phi x tilde .

In the formula for P noted above phi x tilde is the standardized ML cost of solution vector x tilde and is specified by the following equation phi tilde tilde sqrt Equation 3

x tilde is the solution vector with minimum ML cost thus far sqrt is a square root operator. Check if the number of repetitions of this solution vector so far is less than the required number of repetitions computed in Step 4. If the number of repetitions is less then control is transferred to Step 1 otherwise control is transferred to Step 5.

It is noted that Mixture Sampling Algorithm alone may be used i.e. without restarts or be combined with Mixture Sampling Algorithm with restarts. The Mixture Sampling Algorithm and the Mixture Sampling Algorithm with restarts as described above provide a low complexity yet near optimal in terms of obtainable ML costs for detection of transmitted signals in a MIMO receiver.

It is further noted that the Mixture Sampling Algorithm and the Mixture Sampling Algorithm with restarts can with appropriate modifications to the ML cost function be extended to scenarios in which the number of actual current transmitters is less than the number of transmitters allowed to operate in the system such a scenario being termed a sparse multi user MIMO system. The ML cost to be used in the Mixture Sampling Algorithm and the Mixture Sampling Algorithm with restarts techniques is specified by y Hx c x wherein c log 1 M wherein M is the number of symbols in the modulation alphabet used by the transmitters is the probability also known as the activity factor of transmission in a particular frame by a transmitter in the sparse multi user MIMO system 01 xcap is a vector where each of its elements belongs to an augmented signal set which includes zero to the modulation alphabet this is to account for the users who are in inactive state and hence are not transmitting and xcap is the zero norm of vector xcap.

Digital processing system may contain one or more processors such as a central processing unit CPU random access memory RAM secondary memory graphics controller display unit signal interface and input interface . All the components except display unit may communicate with each other over communication path which may contain several buses as is well known in the relevant arts.

CPU may execute instructions stored in RAM to provide several features of the present invention. CPU may contain multiple processing units with each processing unit potentially being designed for a specific task. Alternatively CPU may contain only a single general purpose processing unit.

RAM may receive instructions from secondary memory via communication path . RAM is shown currently containing software instructions constituting operating environment and or user programs . The operating environment contains utilities shared by user programs and such shared utilities include operating system device drivers virtual machines etc. which provide a common run time environment for execution of user programs applications.

Graphics controller generates display signals e.g. in RGB format to display unit based on data instructions received from CPU . Display unit contains a display screen to display the images defined by the display signals. Input interface may correspond to a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. touch pad mouse and may be used to provide inputs.

Signal interface as noted above provides appropriate physical electrical and other protocol interfaces to the various signal processing chains not shown of MIMO receiver .

Secondary memory may contain hard drive flash memory and removable storage drive . Secondary memory may store data and software instructions which enable digital processing system to provide several features in accordance with the description provided above. The blocks components of secondary memory constitute computer or machine readable media and are means for providing software to digital processing system . CPU may retrieve the software instructions and execute the instructions to provide various features of the embodiments described above

Some or all of the data and instructions may be provided on removable storage unit and the data and instructions may be read and provided by removable storage drive to CPU . Floppy drive magnetic tape drive CD ROM drive DVD Drive Flash memory removable memory chip PCMCIA Card EPROM are examples of such removable storage drive .

Removable storage unit may be implemented using medium and storage format compatible with removable storage drive such that removable storage drive can read the data and instructions. Thus removable storage unit includes a computer readable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data. However the computer or machine in general readable medium can be in other forms e.g. non removable random access etc. .

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

