---

title: Providing a locality viewport through a social networking system
abstract: A method of operation of a social filter system includes: identifying a user with a user account; identifying a socially connected account from the user account, the socially connected account having a social association; selecting a content of interest from a content store of contents of interest based on the social association; and sending the content of interest for displaying on a user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449348&OS=09449348&RS=09449348
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09449348
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
This invention relates generally to a locality service and in particular to providing a locality viewport through a social networking system.

In recent years consumers have gotten used to looking up content information online. This includes both contents regarding physical localities such as points of interest stores and tourist attractions and contents regarding virtual and intellectual spaces such as games TV shows books media and video clips. In this application both physical locality content information and the virtual or intellectual media spaces shall be referred to as locality. 

Locality websites provide users with information regarding specific content information. Before the popularity of the Internet information about localities was limited and hard to find. With the advent of the Internet most consumers are overloaded with information about localities both in the terms of physical locations and media content spaces.

The amount of information about localities is staggering. Different versions of information about the same locality may be redundant. Worse yet different versions of information about the same locality may be inconsistent or out of date.

Existing locality services have tried to organize locality contents based on user reviews and user ranking. However as a result of a flood of review and ranking users may be exposed to irrelevant and uninteresting content while missing more relevant content that was previously presented.

Specifically users of locality services do not have an effective tool to indicate whether locality items are relevant to them. Providing users with efficient methods of selecting and filtering locality information is valuable in providing a better user experience for users. However existing systems have not provided users with tools or methods of presenting them with the most relevant locality information.

The present invention provides a method of operating a social filter system including identifying a user with a user account identifying a socially connected account from the user account the socially connected account having a social association selecting a content of interest from a content store of contents of interest based on the social association and sending the content of interest for displaying on a user device.

The present invention also provides a method of operating a social filter system including identifying a user with a user account identifying contents of interest from a content store generating a content set by filtering the contents of interest based on socially connected accounts from the user account each instance of the contents of interest excluded when the socially connected accounts do not have a social association with the each instance and sending the content set for displaying on a user device.

The present invention also provides a method of operating a social filter system including identifying a user with a user account receiving a focal region identifying contents of interest from a content store within the focal region generating a content set by filtering the contents of interest based on socially connected accounts from the user account each instance of the contents of interest excluded when the socially connected accounts do not have a social association with the each instance generating a visualization of the content set including a pin for each instance of the contents of interest in the content set and sending the visualization for displaying on a user device.

The present invention also provides a method of operating a social filter system including identifying a user with a user account identifying contents of interest from a content store determining socially connected accounts each having at least a social association with at least one instance of the contents of interest and sending the socially connected accounts for displaying on a user device.

The present invention also provides a method of operating a social filter system including identifying a user with a user account determining a socially connected account based on the user account the socially connected account having a social association with a content of interest retrieving a media object related to the content of interest and sending the media object for displaying on a user device.

The present invention also provides a social filter system including an account store for storing a user account a connectivity store for determining a socially connected account based on the user account a content store for storing a content of interest an activity map for storing a social association from the socially connected account with the content of interest and a web server for communicating with a user device including sending the social association for displaying on the user device.

The present invention also provides a method of operating a mobile locality viewport including signing in to a user account receiving a user input specifying a focal region on a map receiving a content set each content of interest in the content set having a social association with a socially connected account of the user account and each content of interest within the focal region on the map and displaying the content set on a visualization view.

Some embodiments of the invention have other aspects elements features and steps in addition to or in place of what is described above. These potential additions and replacements are described throughout the rest of the specification

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The present invention relates to methods of performing social filtering on contents of interest to provide a more compact and more relevant set of information for a social locality viewport displaying the filtered contents of interest. The present invention can utilize social connections and social activities of a social network to configure a social filter that can uniquely customize locality visualizations on the social locality viewport for each social network user. For example the social locality viewport can be specifically designed as a mobile locality viewport displaying only a compact and relevant list of contents of interest to the users.

The social locality viewport has the advantage of visualizing for the users relevant contents of interest based on their social connections. For example in a friends view of the social locality viewport the user can see social associations by their friends with particular contents of interest within a region or category. This can help a user determine for him herself who is a trust worthy person to talk to regarding the contents of interest. For another example the social locality viewport can include an inquiry module to pre populate a message to send to a friend who has a social association with a particular content of interest. For yet another example the social locality viewport can include an explorer view for a user to browse through media files related to contents of interest associated with the user s friends. This can help the user define and locate what contents spark the user s interest with help of their friends to reduce the number of media files presented to the user.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network channel . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network channel . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social network system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social network system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID.

In one embodiment the network channel uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network channel can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network channel can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network channel can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The user device can also be connected to an external website via the network channel . The user device can also be connected with the social network system and request content from a viewport interface module . The external website can access an application programming interface API of the social network system . The external website can utilize a social plugin of the social network system to access all of the social contents within the social network system . The external website can also run across the social network system via iFrames.

While the user device is connected to the social network system the viewport interface module can respond to the request from the user device by determining one or more of the content of interest relevant to the user of the user device for displaying on a viewport of the user device . The viewport is a graphical user interface of the user device .

The social network system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network system . Users join the social network system and add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Users of the social networking system can provide information describing themselves where the information is stored in user profiles. For example users can provide their age gender geographical location education history employment history and the like. The information provided by users may be used by the social networking system to direct information to the user. For example the social networking system may recommend social groups events and potential friends to a user.

In addition to declarative information provided by users the social network system also record users actions on the social filter system . The recording of these actions are governed by privacy settings based on a user s preference that dictates what the social network system can and cannot record. These actions include communications with other users sharing photos interactions with applications that operate on the social networking system such as a social gaming application responding to a poll adding an interest and joining an employee network. The social network system can also be able to capture external website data that is accessed by its users. This external website data may include websites that are frequently visited links that are selected and other browsing data. Information about users such as interests in particular other users and applications relative to past history of recorded actions can be generated through analysis and machine learning by the social networking system .

The social network system can also attempt to infer information about its users. The social network system can analyze posted content by users that include keywords such as wedding. Location information may be gathered from content items posted by users to infer a home location of the user. As a result the social network system can infer certain profile attributes of a user such as geographic location educational institutions attended and age range by analyzing the user s connections and their declared profile information. Inferring profile attributes are further discussed in Inferring User Profile Information U.S. application Ser. No. 12 916 322 filed on Oct. 29 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The social network system can also enable users to explicitly express interest in a concept such as celebrities hobbies sports teams books music and the like. These interests may be used in a myriad of ways including targeting advertisements and personalizing the user experience on the social networking system by showing relevant stories about other users of the social network system based on shared interests. In one embodiment the social network system can compute affinity scores for users interests either explicitly expressed or otherwise inferred on the social network system and use these affinity scores in ranking new content items that will be published in news feeds or communication channels on the social network system for the users. Affinity scoring with coefficients are further discussed in Contextually Relevant Affinity Prediction in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 and Top Friend Prediction for Users in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 093 744 filed on Apr. 25 2011 which are both incorporated by reference.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a block diagram of a social network system . The social network system can be for example the social network system of .

The social network system can include one or more methods of generating and displaying a viewport such as the viewport of for the user device of . The one or more methods can be implemented by components storages and modules described below. The social network system can include also one or more further methods of updating the viewport based on user interactions on the user device . The one or more further methods can be implemented by modules described below.

The modules can be implemented as hardware modules software modules or a combination thereof. For example the modules described can be software modules implemented as instructions on a non transitory memory capable of being executed by a processor or a controller on a machine described in .

The storages each labeled as a store described below are hardware components for storing digital data. Each of the store can be a single physical entity or distributed through multiple physical devices. Each of the stores can be on separate physical device or share the same physical device or devices.

The social network system can include additional fewer or different modules for various applications. Conventional components such as network interfaces security functions load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The social network system can include a web server . The web server is a device for linking the social network system via a network such as the network channel to one or more user devices such as instances of the user device . The web server can serve web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social network system and a user device such as the user device . For example these messages can be instant messages web messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user can send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in a content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native user device operating systems such as iOS ANDROID webOS and RIM.

The social network system can include the content store . The content store is a non transitory storage medium for storing a content of interest such as the content of interest of and a content profile . The content store can store multiple instances of the content of interest and the content profile . The content of interest can be for example a location or region identifiable through a map. The content of interest can also be for example a media type passive or interactive such as videos books photos games or a combination thereof. The content profile includes entries of information related to a content of interest such as the content of interest . The content profile for example can include an address a phone number a like a content publication date or a content category type.

The social network system can include an account store . The account store is a non transitory storage medium for storing a user account . The user account can be based on a user registration with the social network system . The user account can include a profile. The profile can include privacy settings about how contents of the user account can be used by the social filter system to display information on the viewport . The user account can include a favorites list .

The social network system can include a connectivity store . The connectivity store can be a non transitory storage medium for storing a connectivity graph of the user account . The connectivity graph is defined as a mapping of relationships amongst two or more instances of the user account . For example the connectivity graph can represent a social connection between a socially connected account and the user account . The socially connected account is defined as another instance of a user account that is connected to the user account by a stored association on the social network system . While it is illustrated that the socially connected account is directly connected to the user account within only one degree of separation it is understood that the socially connected account can be defined as within two three or more degrees of social connection with the user account . The socially connected account can also be known as a friend within the social network system .

The content store can include an activity map . The activity map is a non transitory storage medium for storing a social association . The social association is a record of an interaction between the social network system and the socially connected account involving a content of interest such as the content of interest . The social association can include mentions likes offline real world interactions tagging people notes status updates reviews or a combination thereof. For status updates notes and reviews the content of interest can be identified by semantic analysis. Through semantic analysis whether the text includes a negative or positive review of the content of interest can also be determined. The activity map can store the social association between an instance of the socially connected account and a content of interest such as the content of interest .

The activity map includes nodes connected by edges that are stored on the social network system . Nodes include users and objects of the social network system such as web pages embodying concepts and entities. Edges connect the nodes. Edges such as the social association represent a particular interaction between two nodes such as when a user expresses an interest in a news article shared by another user about America s Cup. The activity map can record interactions between users of the social network system as well as interactions between users and objects of the social network system by storing information in the nodes and edges that represent these interactions.

The activity map can be stored as a graph. Each edge of the graph can be referred to as a graph action. Each node of the graph can be referred to as a graph object. Custom graph object types and graph action types may be defined by third party developers as well as administrators of the social network system to define attributes of the graph objects and graph actions. For example a graph object for a movie can have several defined object properties such as a title actors directors producers year and the like. A graph action type such as purchase may be used by a third party developer on a website external to the social network system to report custom actions performed by users of the social network system . In this way the activity map may be open enabling third party developers to create and use the custom graph objects and actions on external websites.

For example a graph object for a restaurant can have several defined object properties such as a store name culinary type zip code and the like. A graph action type such as reviewed or visited can be used by a third party developer on a website external to the social network system to report custom actions performed by users of the social network system .

Third party developers may enable users of the social network system to express interest in web pages hosted on websites external to the social network system . These web pages may be represented as page objects in the social network system as a result of embedding a widget a social plug in programmable logic or code snippet into the web pages such as an iFrame. Any concept that can be embodied in a web page may become a node in the activity map on the social network system in this manner. As a result users may interact with many objects external to the social network system that are relevant to a keyword or keyword phrase such as Justin Bieber. Each of the interactions with an object may be recorded by the social network system as an edge. Enabling third party developers to define custom object types and custom action types is further described in a related application Structured Objects and Actions on a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 13 239 340 filed on Sep. 21 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

These edges such as the social association can be a user action of a socially connected account such as a recommendation a check in a photo tag a nearby geographical tag an interaction a post an action or a combination thereof. For discussion purposes the social association has been limited to positive interactions but negative interactions such as a crossing out an advertisement or closing a news feed story can also be recorded. Such negative interactions can be used in any ranking of the content of interest in the social filter system to decrease the degree of relevancy of the content of interest.

The social association is considered related to or associated with a content of interest if the social association is an edge in the activity map connected to the content of interest as a node. The activity map can store one or more of the social association for each of the content of interest. The activity map can also be specific to an user account. In that case the activity map can store one or more of the social association for each of the socially connected account .

The social network system can include a viewport interface module such as the viewport interface module of . The viewport interface module is for sending pages related to a content of interest for the user account for displaying on a user device such as the user device .

Referring now to therein is shown an example of a block diagram of a viewport interface module such as the viewport interface module of or the viewport interface module of .

The viewport interface module can include a content page module . The content page module is for generating and sending the content page to a user device with social information such as the user device . The content page can include a display of a content of interest and social associations from user accounts related to the content of interest such as the content of interest of and the social association of respectively.

For example the content page can be for the content of interest of the New York City. The content page can include not only tourism information of New York City but also friends of the user account who have interacted with New York City via some form of social associations such as posting about New York City on his her wall or having recommended New York City in a social network system. includes further example of the content page .

The viewport interface module can include a content list module . The content list module is for generating and sending a content set to a user device such as the user device of . The content set is a list of contents of interest that is relevant to a user account such as the user account of . The content list module can determine the content set from the content store and the user account. The content list module can serve as a social filter to present to the user device only a subset of contents of interest such as a subset of all instances of the content of interest of from the content store of that may be relevant to the user account. includes an example of displaying the content set .

Relevancy can be determined by the social connections of the user account. For example the content list module can generate the content set by filtering a content store such as the content store for any content of interest where a socially connected account has a social association with the content of interest. For example from the content store the contents of interest that are associated with the friends of the user account can be included in the content set . Associations such as check ins or purchases can be used to determine if a socially connected account or a friend is associated with the content of interest. Examples of how the socially connected accounts can be associated with the content of interest are described in the applications incorporated by reference herein.

The content list module can be limited to only a focal region . For example the focal region can be determined by a current location of the user device where the current location is automatically determined by the user device and sent over to the social network system . The focal region can be a physical region such as a city a zip code or a space within a distance radius of a location. The focal region can also be a virtual region such as a specific subscription from a video website or a music store application.

The content set can be categorized by types of the content of interest. For example the content set can be categorized by events places people genre media type or active date. The content set can also be sorted. Each of the contents of interest such as the content of interest in the content set can be sorted by date by number of the socially connected accounts associated with the content of interest number of the social associations corresponding to the content of interest or a combination thereof. The socially connected accounts for example can include the socially connected account .

The viewport interface module can include a rank module . The rank module is for ranking each instance of the content of interest such as the content of interest in the content set for display on the viewport . The rank module can rank based on a total number of the socially connected accounts that are associated with each of the content of interest. The rank module can rank based on the total number of the social associations for each of the content of interest. The rank module can rank based on a number of check ins a number of recommendations a number of recent social associations or a combination thereof. The time threshold to be considered a recent social association can be set by user setting in the user account dynamically set by the user or pre programmed in a viewport interface such as the viewport interface . The rank module can also rank based on analytics of posts created by the socially connected account on a social network system such as the social network system of where the post has an association with the content of interest. For example the rank module can rank the content set based on number of check ins of the socially connected account who has recommended the content of interest. The ranking can then be used to order the content set as displayed on a viewport such as the viewport of .

The viewport interface module can include a visual module . The visual module is for generating and sending a visualization view of the content set to be displayed on the user device. The visual module can also keep track of the focal region by storing the focal region on a social network service such as the social network system or on a user device such as the user device . For example the visualization view can be a map of the focal region . By default the focal region can be centered around a Global Positioning System GPS location of the user device. The visual module is capable of sending the visualization view to the user device and allowing the user device to interact with the visualization view including for example zooming changing scope panning or rotating. An example of the visualization view is provided in .

The visualization view can have a maximum number of the contents of interest to display. The contents of interest shown in the visualization view can be determined by the visual module such as by ranking from the highest number of instances of the socially connected accounts having the social association related to the content of interest. The contents of interest shown in the visualization view can also be from the content set from the content list module . Each of the content of interest can also be ranked by the number of the social associations or the most recent date of a social association associated with the content of interest. Any of the content of interest that ranks below the maximum number to display can be excluded from the visualization view . The ranking can be performed by the rank module .

The viewport interface module can include a friend module . The friend module is for generating and sending a friend view to the viewport on the user device. The friend view can display the socially connected accounts based on at least the following criteria 1 the socially connected accounts having a social association within the focal region of the visualization view 2 the socially connected account who has above a threshold number of social associations with the content of interest 3 the socially connected account who has checked in liked or recommended more than a threshold number of the content of interest in the focal region of the visualization view or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the friend view provides an interface for the user account to find the socially connected account who is a specific person who has similar taste to the user of the user account. The friend view can uncover the relevant content set based on the socially connected account. For example the friend view can show all of the places that the user of the socially connected account has visited in the city that the user of the user account is living in. For another example the friend view can show all of the restaurants that the user of the socially connected account has recommended on the social network system in a city that the user account has designated. An example of the friend view is provided in and .

In another embodiment the friend view provides an interface for the user account to find the socially connected account who is an expert of the focal region or of the content of interest . The social association stored on the social network system provides a way for the social network system to identify people who not only recommend the content of interest but also have interacted with the content of interest many times previously to become experts. This view can be suggested or recommended to a user based on coefficient data as described in the patent incorporated by reference herein such as U.S. application Ser. No. 12 978 265. Determining whether another user account can be an expert or an influencer in the social network is further discussed in UTILIZE EXPERTS AND INFLUENCERS IN A SOCIAL NETWORK U.S. application Ser. No. 13 040 158 filed on Mar. 3 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The viewport interface module can include an explorer module . The explorer module is for generating and sending an explorer view to the viewport on the user device. The explorer view can display a media object related to the content of interest. The media object is defined as any digital content capable of being presented by a digital device. The explorer view can allow for browsing of one or more of the media object related to each of the content of interest in the content set . For example the explorer view can include pictures posted by the socially connected account about the content of interest. For another example the explorer view can include pictures posted on a page for the content of interest as stored on the social network system. The explorer view can limit the number of the media object displayed to only media objects related to contents of interest associated with the socially connected account to a specific content of interest or to the contents of interest within the focal region as specified in the visualization view . A media object is related to a content of interest if the media object describes the content of interest in some way.

The explorer view can allow the user to browse through one or more of the media object quickly with social context. The explorer view has been discovered with the advantage of allowing users to find out what they are interested in based on their friends endorsements. This is even though the users have no idea what kind of the content of interest to search for.

The user can input a category query to limit the number of the media object shown. For example the user can limit the media objects shown to restaurants. The explorer view can then show media objects of restaurants taken at the city that the user of the user account is living in. An example of the explorer view is provided in .

The viewport interface module can include a favorites module . The favorites module is for generating and sending a favorites view to the viewport on the user device. The favorites view can include a display of a favorites list such as the favorites list of . The favorites list is defined as a list of the content of interest deemed to be of interest by a user of the user account. The favorites list can be displayed when the user account is logged into the social network system. The favorites list of the user account can also be displayed on the viewport of a friend s device when the socially connected account is logged into the social network system. The favorites in the favorites list can be dynamically updated as the social network system is updated. An example of the favorites view is provided in .

The viewport interface module can include an advertisement module . The advertisement module can be coupled to the rank module the visual module or the explorer module . The advertisement module is for promoting a special instance of the content of interest in the viewport. For example while in any of the views described in the application the advertisement module can highlight a content of interest such as a lounge bar called New Blues . The highlighting of the New Blues can include displaying a link an address or a picture of the lounge bar within the views in the viewport.

The advertisement module can increase the ranking of a content of interest in the content set . For example a user browsing through furniture stores can see a list of furniture stores in the views described in this disclosure. The advertisement module can bump up a paid advertiser s furniture store in the list. The advertisement module can also highlight in various manners such as providing a visual emphasis or notification of the special instance of the content of interest in the visualization view or the explorer view . For example the paid advertiser s furniture store can be bolded or enlarged. The advertisement module can also insert the special instance in the viewport where the special instance has no social connection with the user account. For example a furniture store that has not been visited by a friend of the user account can be inserted into the list of furniture stores that has some amount of social interactions with friends of the user account.

The viewport interface module can include a calendar module . The calendar module is for generating and sending a calendar view to the viewport on the user device. The calendar view can include a display of a calendar or timeline with time stamped information of social associations associated with the content of interest such as the content of interest . For example the calendar view can include a timeline of check ins of the socially connected account. For another example the calendar view can include a timeline of the social associations related to the content of interest.

In one embodiment the calendar view can provide the user with relevant timing information to predict time based relevancy of the user s interest in the content of interest. For example the calendar view can help the user to determine the best time to visit a restaurant by looking at whether the friends of the user frequent the restaurant on weekdays or weekends. For another example the calendar view can help the user determine trending information about the increasing or decreasing popularity of the content of interest such as a bar. In that example the user can see a decrease in social associations with the bar in the recent months indicating that the bar is becoming unpopular. Optionally the trending information and time based relevancy can also be determined automatically by the calendar module for displaying on the viewport. For example the number of new social associations or change in number of social associations each day can be displayed in the calendar view .

The viewport interface module can include an inquiry module . The inquiry module is for generating and sending an inquiry through the social network system relayed to the socially connected account. The inquiry is defined as a pre populated message regarding the content of interest. The inquiry module can be activated in any of the views generated by the viewport interface module such as by clicking a button or an icon next to the socially connected account. The inquiry module when activated through the viewport can automatically generate the inquiry to the socially connected account with pre defined text regarding the content of interest. For example when the user account has identified the content of interest as Paris and a socially connected account is socially connected to Paris the inquiry can be generated with a text message stating Hi I would like to ask for your recommendation about where to go in Paris because the social network system has notified me that you are familiar with Paris. The inquiry can be generated by inserting the content of interest which is Paris in this example into a text string template such as the rest of the text other than Paris in the example.

The inquiry can also include a link to a content page a name of the socially connected account a link to and information about a media object of the content of interest or any combination thereof. For example the inquiry can state Hi Joe Smith I would like to ask for your recommendation about where to go in Paris because the social network system has notified me that you are familiar with Paris . In particular I am looking at the picture you have taken on Aug. 1 2000 . Here is the link to a page I am looking at for Paris http linktocontentofinterest.com . Here is what I am looking at from your page http linktomediaobject . Items in parentheses above are examples of the name of the socially connected account the link to and information about the media object related to the content of interest e.g. Paris and the link to the content page that can be inserted in to a pre generated template for the inquiry .

Referring now to therein is shown a flow chart of a method of operation of the social filter system in a further embodiment of the present invention. The method includes identifying a user with a user account in a method step identifying a socially connected account from the user account the socially connected account having a social association in a method step selecting a content of interest from a content store of contents of interest based on the social association in a method step and sending the content of interest for displaying on a user device in a method step .

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of in a list view . A list view can include a content search input . The content search input is for receiving user inputs such as user inputs to be sent to the viewport interface module of for socially filtering a content set such as the content set of . Although it has been illustrated that the content search input is a text box for input in it is understood that the search input can be any user interface element for user input.

The content list module can generate and send back a list of contents of interest such as the content of interest to be displayed on the list view . In this example the contents of interest are different categories of places of interest although it is understood other types of contents can be listed instead of places. Third party system can query the viewport to enhance their website with social context. The third party can ask the social network to identify the user and provide the social associations or the list view back to the third party site such as the external website .

The list view can display the content set received from the content list module of . The content set can be further refined and filtered in the list view based on category of the content of interest a socially connected account such as the socially connected account or a focal region such as the focal region of . For example the content of interest in the content set that is not associated with the socially connected account can be removed from the content set . For another example contents of interest in the content set not within a focal region defined by the visualization module can be removed from the content set .

For each of the content of interest the list view can include a list of the socially connected accounts each having a social association related to the content of interest. A count of the number of the social associations such as the social association can be displayed next to the content of interest. Each of the socially connected account can be displayed as an icon an avatar a username a thumbnail or a combination thereof. For example the socially connected account can be displayed as a thumbnail photo as in . This thumbnail photo can be replaced by an icon such as a tiny human figure or a username of the socially connected account such as Joe Smith. 

The list view can include next to each of the content of interest an add to favorite button . In one embodiment the add to favorite button or icon is an interactive button that can change states between highlighted or otherwise selected and not highlighted. When highlighted the add to favorite button denotes that the content of interest is added to a favorites list such as the favorites list of for the user account of . The favorites list can be displayed in a different view of the viewport for example in .

The content list module can track a plurality of the social association of a plurality of the socially connected account in the list view for each of the content of interest . Then the content list module can sort the content set based on the number of the social association for each of the content of interest . The list view can include the tracked number of the social association for each of the content of interest .

For example the content list module of can track a number of the socially connected accounts related to each of the content of interest. Then the content list module can sort the content set based on the number of the socially connected accounts for each of the content of interest. The number of the socially connected accounts can be displayed in the list view . For example in for the content of interest Foreign Cinema the number of the socially connected account is 26. 

The viewport can include a menu bar . The menu bar is an interactive portion of the viewport that allows for toggling between different views. For example shows that the list view is activated.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of displaying a content page such as the content page . The content page can be a view of the viewport for displaying information about a particular content of interest such as the content of interest . For example the content page can be generated by the content page module of .

The content page can include a title of the content of interest. The content page can include a content profile such as the content profile . The content page can also include a relevant subset of socially connected accounts connected to the user account such as the socially connected account of the user account of . The relevant subset includes the socially connected accounts having at least a social association such as the social association that is related to the content of interest. A total number of the social associations can also be linked or displayed. A finer detail of the social association can also be displayed. For example a number of times the socially connected account has checked in can be displayed. For another example the total number of the socially connected accounts each having recommended the content of interest can be displayed.

The content page can include a display of recent ones or all of the social associations related to the content of interest. The time threshold for determining if a social association is recent can be user defined or pre programmed. The content page can also include a display of a pattern of the social association. For example the content page can display that the socially connected account has checked in every Friday for the last three weeks.

The content page can include posts from the socially connected account or from the public regarding the content of interest. For example the content page can include a post about a friend s experience in eating at the content of interest the content of interest being a restaurant. The post can be about negative positive comments or both including specific areas that are more encouraging or disappointing. For example encouraging comments can include love the place I would like to see that again or highly recommended. For another example discouraging comments can include hate that place it was so so or I would not do it again. 

The content page can include a recommend button . The recommend button is an interactive button for recording a recommendation of the content of interest from the user account to an activity map such as the activity map of . The recommendation can be stored as a social association associated with the content of interest. The content page can also include the add to favorite button for adding the content of interest to a favorites list such as the favorites list of . The favorite button can also store a social association between the user account and the content of interest in the activity map. When storing a social association such as a recommendation or a favorite tag the social association is stored with a reference to the user account and the content of interest it is related to.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of in a visualization view. For example the visual view can be the visualization view . The visualization view can be a view of the viewport for displaying information about contents of interest such as the content of interest of . The visualization view can display information about the contents of interest in relation to one another. In this example the visualization view can display the contents of interest in a map showing the contents of interest in a geographical region in relation to one another. The visualization view can display a content set such as the content set of as provided by the content list module of .

In one embodiment the visualization view can include a visual search input . Although it has been illustrated that the visual search input is a text box for input in it is understood that the search input can be any user interface element for user input. The visual search input is for receiving inputs from the user to filter the contents of interest that are to be displayed on the visualization view . The visual search input can be used to change a focal region such as the focal region . For example when the user enters London in the visual search input the focal region can change to a map space around London. The search input can also be used to filter the contents of interest displayed. For example if the user enters Paris in the visual search input the visualization view can zoom to a map of Paris. In this case the map is the visualization view and the focal region is the map area Paris . For another example if the user enters Restaurant the visualization view can display only the contents of interest that are restaurants in the current map.

A pin on the visualization view can represent the content of interest. Although it has been illustrated that the pin is a dot with a connector line in it is understood that the pin can be any icon or marker. The pin can have different colors or size to denote different properties of the content of interest. For example the pin can be enlarged if more than a threshold number of socially connected accounts have social associations related to a content of interest on which the pin is on such as the socially connected account of having the social association of related to the content of interest .

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of in a friend view for displaying information about socially connected accounts. For example the friend view can be the friend view of for displaying information about the socially connected accounts such as the socially connected account of . The friend view can be generated by the friend module of . The friend view can be associated with the visualization view of such that the friend view can display a list of the socially connected accounts each who has at least one social association such as the social association accounted for within the focal region of displayed by the visualization view . The number of instances of the social association within the visualization view can be displayed next to an icon of the socially connected account.

The friend view can include a button to browse all of the socially connected accounts. For example upon clicking the button friends of the user account can be listed. The friends listed in this example are filtered such that only the friends who are associated with the selected content of interest are displayed.

The friend view can also include a button to browse only the socially connected accounts within the focal region such as a city or a state. For example upon clicking the button friends who live or have lived in the focal region can be listed. The friends listed in this example are filtered such that only the friends who are associated with the selected content of interest are displayed.

Referring now to therein is shown another example of the viewport of in the friend view for displaying information about a socially connected account. For example the friend view can be the friend view of for displaying information about a single one of the socially connected account of .

This example of the friend view can be generated by the friend module of . In this example the friend view can include a list of contents of interest such as the content of interest of corresponding at least one of the social association of for the socially connected account of . This list of the contents of interest can be displayed in a list displayed on the visualization view of such as a map or can be displayed in separate lists categorized by types of the contents of interest.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of in an explorer view for displaying a media object related to a content of interest. For example the explorer view can be the explorer view for displaying the media object of related to the content of interest of .

The explorer view can be generated by the explorer module of . For example the media object such as the media object can be audio video image text interactive text interactive images or a combination thereof. The browsing of the media object on the viewport can be activated by a detected swipe on a user device such as the user device of or can be activated by a timer.

The explorer view can browse through different media objects. The order of the media objects can be sorted by date such as date of creation reported date or date of upload. The explorer view can be set to browse through the media objects related to a content set such as the content set of where the content set is generated by on a category a focal region such as the focal region of a socially connected account such as the socially connected account or a social association such as the social association . The explorer view can sequence an order of the media objects by date of publication of each of the media objects.

The visual search input of can also limit the media objects displayed in the explorer view . For example if Ice Cream was entered in the visual search input the media objects displayed can be limited to any of the content of interest related to Ice Cream or any of the social association related to Ice Cream . Instead of using the visual search input the explorer view can also include its own search box for performing the same functions described in this section. Search and retrieval of objects in the social network are further discussed in Search and Retrieval of Objects in a Social Networking System U.S. application Ser. No. 12 816 377 filed on Jun. 15 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In one embodiment the explorer view has the advantage of being a browse oriented interface for the content of interest with social filtering that minimizes times spent on irrelevant content. Accordingly the explorer view enjoys both the ease of use of a browse oriented interface without the detriment of most other browse oriented interfaces.

Referring now to therein is shown an example of the viewport of in a favorites view for displaying a favorites list associated with a user account such as the favorites view of for displaying the favorites list associated with the user account of . The favorites view can be generated by the favorites module of . The favorites list can include the contents of interest that has been marked as a favorite such as the content of interest . For each of the content of interest a brief description of the content of interest can be included in the favorites view . For example if the content of interest is a place the number of miles or distance from a current location of a user device such as the user device of to the content of interest can be displayed. The type of the content of interest can also be displayed such as Restaurant Museum or Cafe . Icons of socially connected accounts of the user account such the socially connected account of the user account can be displayed next to each of the content of interest where the socially connected account has a social association related to the content of interest. For example the social association can be the social association .

Referring now to therein is shown an example an inquiry message in the viewport of . For example the inquiry message can be the inquiry message of . The inquiry message can be embedded with the viewport as illustrated in . The inquiry message can also be in a pop up window or an application call to open up an email client such as Microsoft Outlook Gmail Facebook Messages or any combination thereof.

The inquiry message can include a field indicating a user account sending the inquiry message such as the user account of . The inquiry message can include a field indicating which socially connected account or accounts to send the inquiry message to such as the socially connected account of . The inquiry message can include a message text . The message text can include a pre determined text template such as the portion of the message text that is not underlined in the . The message text can also include an automatic filled portion such as the portion of the message text that is underlined in the .

For example the pre determined text template can include a general greeting as shown in . The automatic filled portion can include a content of interest that the user account is viewing and a link to the content of interest page. For example the content of interest can be the content of interest of . The automatic filled portion can also include a reference to a media object that the user account is viewing including the type of the media object a link to the media object how and when the media object is recorded or any combination thereof. For example the media object can be the media object of . The automatic filled portion can also include a name of the socially connected account such as Joe Smith as shown.

Referring now to therein is shown a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules discussed herein may be executed.

In the example of the computer system includes a processor memory non volatile memory and an interface device. Various common components e.g. cache memory are omitted for illustrative simplicity. The computer system is intended to illustrate a hardware device on which any of the components depicted in the example of and any other components described in this specification can be implemented. The computer system can be of any applicable known or convenient type. The components of the computer system can be coupled together via a bus or through some other known or convenient device.

The processor may be for example a conventional microprocessor such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor or Motorola power PC microprocessor. One of skill in the relevant art will recognize that the terms machine readable storage medium or computer readable storage medium include any type of device that is accessible by the processor.

The memory is coupled to the processor by for example a bus. The memory can include by way of example but not limitation random access memory RAM such as dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM . The memory can be local remote or distributed.

The bus also couples the processor to the non volatile memory and drive unit. The non volatile memory is often a magnetic floppy or hard disk a magnetic optical disk an optical disk a read only memory ROM such as a CD ROM EPROM or EEPROM a magnetic or optical card or another form of storage for large amounts of data. Some of this data is often written by a direct memory access process into memory during execution of software in the computer . The non volatile storage can be local remote or distributed. The non volatile memory is optional because systems can be created with all applicable data available in memory. A typical computer system will usually include at least a processor memory and a device e.g. a bus coupling the memory to the processor.

Software is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or the drive unit. Indeed for large programs it may not even be possible to store the entire program in the memory. Nevertheless it should be understood that for software to run if necessary it is moved to a computer readable location appropriate for processing and for illustrative purposes that location is referred to as the memory in this paper. Even when software is moved to the memory for execution the processor will typically make use of hardware registers to store values associated with the software and local cache that ideally serves to speed up execution. As used herein a software program is assumed to be stored at any known or convenient location from non volatile storage to hardware registers when the software program is referred to as implemented in a computer readable medium. A processor is considered to be configured to execute a program when at least one value associated with the program is stored in a register readable by the processor.

The bus also couples the processor to the network interface device. The interface can include one or more of a modem or network interface. It will be appreciated that a modem or network interface can be considered to be part of the computer system . The interface can include an analog modem isdn modem cable modem token ring interface satellite transmission interface e.g. direct PC or other interfaces for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The interface can include one or more input and or output devices. The I O devices can include by way of example but not limitation a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device disk drives printers a scanner and other input and or output devices including a display device. The display device can include by way of example but not limitation a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD or some other applicable known or convenient display device. For simplicity it is assumed that controllers of any devices not depicted in the example of reside in the interface.

In operation the computer system can be controlled by operating system software that includes a file management system such as a disk operating system. One example of operating system software with associated file management system software is the family of operating systems known as Windows from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and their associated file management systems. Another example of operating system software with its associated file management system software is the Linux operating system and its associated file management system. The file management system is typically stored in the non volatile memory and or drive unit and causes the processor to execute the various acts required by the operating system to input and output data and to store data in the memory including storing files on the non volatile memory and or drive unit.

Some portions of the detailed description may be presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or generating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the methods of some embodiments. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the techniques are not described with reference to any particular programming language and various embodiments may thus be implemented using a variety of programming languages.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone a Blackberry a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

While the machine readable medium or machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies or modules of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

Further examples of machine readable storage media machine readable media or computer readable storage media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links.

The above description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

While processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed above or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using capitalization italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that same element can be described in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

